-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate declare its opinion that on the making of grants of financial assistance to the States under section 96 of the Constitution the Commonwealth Parliament should ensure that: 
The grants to the States are free of restrictions in detail that infringe upon the power of the States to determine the policy in their own area of responsibility. 
As far as possible the detailed administration of national programs financed by specific purpose grants made under section 96 of the Constitution should be carried out by State governments or local authorities authorised by them. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Australian Government informed the State governments of the adjustments it would make to general purpose and specific purpose grants to any State which transferred responsibility for its railway system to the Australian Government? If it has, what are the adjustments? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Has the Government received from the Social Welfare Commission proposals for the development of day care facilities for children which were requested by the Government in February 1974? If it has not yet received the report, when is the report expected? If the report has been received, when will it be released by the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social 
Security. Is there any truth in the report that the Government will shelve or slow down implementation of its promise to provide for latch key children? If the Minister does not know the present position, in view of the urgency of providing care for the thousands of children who are left unattended daily and in view of the undertaking in the Governor-General's speech that the Government will be guided by the need to ensure that any deferment of expectations shall not be made at the expense of those for whom deferment could mean a lifetime of deprivation- for example, children at school and migrants- will the Minister undertake to make urgent inquiries into the matter and provide an early answer to the Senate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government made any decision on the recommendations of the Committee on Technical and Further Education, including those relating to expenditure in the year 1974-75. 
If it has made a decision, what is it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister made any response to the request made by the State Premiers for a meeting with the Prime Minister to devise an overall strategy to defeat inflation? Has he given the Premiers a date for a meeting? If he has not, does he propose to meet the Premiers and avail himself of their offer of co-operation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the hope that questions asked in the Senate might advance the possibility that this young man will have freedom of choice as to whether he remains in Australia. Can the Minister confirm that  Mr Ermolenko  originally refused to see Professor Kabalevsky but was persuaded by some Australian friends to see him and that he saw Professor Kabalevsky for a period of 4'A hours in the presence of a Russian Consular official? Does the Minister know whether during that period requests by persons to see  Mr Ermolenko  were refused? I ask the Minister whether the consular access to which he has referred means consular access permanently between the time of the interview and  Mr Ermolenko  leaving the country. In other words, is the Minister suggesting that the principle is that consular access- with which we all agree- permits an Embassy official to remain with  Mr Ermolenko  day and night during that period? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation on a matter that came up during question time in regard to an interest that I have. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by informing him that shortly before the Senate met this morning I spoke to the Reverend Johnson who told me that he is one person who still has considerable concern about whether this young Russian has had a chance to make a free decision. Is the Minister aware that counsel appearing for the Commonwealth in the proceedings against  Mr Alexandrov  of the Russian Embassy in the West Australian Supreme Court yesterday was asked whether he could give an undertaking that the Government would not facilitate  Mr Ermolenko  's departure from Australia until the hearing of the proceeding was resumed? Is the Minister aware that after a adjournment counsel for the Commonwealth told the court that he was unable to give that undertaking? Will the Minister give the undertaking to the Senate that the Government will make every effort to ensure that  Mr Ermolenko  does not leave Australia until he has had an opportunity to confer with those people to whom he originally confided his desire to remain in Australia, namely  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government provide financial or other assistance to organisations supporting children in institutions in Vietnam fathered by Australian or other foreign servicemen during the war in Vietnam; if not, will it do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What rules, if any, have been laid down governing grants to sporting organisations for teams to attend national and internauonalevents. 
Does the Government contribute a fixed proportion of fares and/or other costs 
3 ) Is any means test imposed 
What information is required from applicants 
Who decides whether the grants will be made and on what grounds 
Who decides what amounts will be granted and on what grounds 
I rise with some trepidation to clamber over the hurdle that was effortlessly soared by  Senator Martin  less than half an hour ago. I join with  Senator Button  in paying tribute to her contribution but I differ from him in not being surprised. I had on an earlier occasion heard the tongue behind the pretty face. That was in Queensland. I expected that her contribution to this debate would be the sort of contribution that it was. I know that it is but the first of many such contributions. 
For me, this is a long awaited opportunity. For many years as a schoolboy and as a student I came to this place with my father who was the member for Perth from 1955 to 1969. During those years I developed a respect and an affection for the institution of Parliament. I also developed an affection and respect for the practice of politics. For that, I thank my father and his colleagues at that time who taught me that politics could be an honourable profession, something that I think is not known to the general populace. At the time I was more conscious of the virtues of the other place than of this chamber, although I remember the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge proselytising me about the virtues of the Senate. I would say in thanking honourable senators, the  President  of the Senate and the officers of the Senate who have taught me a great deal in the last few months, that they have demonstrated to me the validity of the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge 's arguments. 
I would say also to honourable senators that at the same time as I developed a respect and affection for Parliament, I developed the same feeling for the principles of liberalism. In particular I came to believe that good communities are based on the strivings of free individuals and not just on good programs. 
In my view, it is not a particularly easy time to enter Parliament. I recall the 1950s and 1960s as being decades of relative certainty about our national direction and future. Critics, of whom there were many, including me from time to time, complained that we moved too slowly on matters of real community concern. But there was seemingly boundless optimism about Australia's future. The present pessimism and gloom are very different. The bright promise of Labor in 1972 is dead, and it died very early. It was briefly revived under the campaign conditions in May 1974. I regret to say that it has died again. Labor benefited in 1972 and again in 1974 from what we Liberals had become by the end of our 23 years when it seemed we had no ability to transmit our ideals to the public. We have still to learn to use the right rhetoric for the 70s, the words that will inspire people. Perhaps we will not ever learn to use that rhetoric. I hope that the people of Australia are becoming suspicious of rhetoric and clever debating, and that in the next election there will be a more realistic assessment of what is being offered to the Australian people. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, in a number of respects I am disturbed at the direction this country is taking. The Budget represents a firm step in a direction about which I am concerned and so I am pleased to open my parliamentary innings with an opportunity to speak on it. 
In one particular respect, I approve of the Budget. It represents what the Government promised the people of Australia and what the people of Australia narrowly voted for. At election time, we, the Opposition, campaigned on the need for Government restraint. We made it clear that we would not expand Government spending in the way the present Budget does expand Government spending. The Government promised a vastly expanded program of expenditure on what might be called the areas of social concern- health, education and so on. In this Budget it has met its commitments. The narrow majority of electors who voted for Labor can now see what they voted for. 
Unfortunately, the Budget must result in inflation and, in the ultimate, the dishonouring of Labor's promises. This is so for a number of reasons, not the least because the Government has not made it clear to the people that the increases in social expenditure the Government wants are increases that go beyond merely utilising growth in productivity and hence real wealth in the community. They go beyond merely using up unused resources of labour and material. The Government is, in fact, diverting resources into these fields of social concern. There are statements by Government Ministers and by supporters of the Government which make it clear that a diversion of resources is contemplated. But I suggest that the implications of this are not understood or accepted by the people, nor are they understood by that section of the people we call the trade union movement. 
Everyone in Australia from the worker to the  chairman  of the board has to understand that what the Government really intends is that the individual is to have less freedom of choice on how he or she spends his or her income. The choice is being made more and more by the Government. More of that income will be taken and devoted to spending on education, health, Aborigines and so on. It is a corollary that less of the income can be available for expenditure on other items of personal consumption. The steady improvements that individuals have come to expect in their living standards have to be looked for in such things as better schools and hospitals rather than more cash in the pocket. Unless the community accepts those facts it will be living in a world of make-believe. In that make-believe world the individuals will try to keep up their standards of personal consumption and the unions will continue to chase the higher wages that will succeed in giving to their members the standard of living to which they aspire. If people think they can get increased Government services without forgoing other consumption, rampant inflation is a certainty. 
The Government has shown the courage of only half of its convictions. It has put forward the social policy in which it believes. It has not had the courage to admit that its program requires more taxation- not less. Its token tax cuts have been made in the knowledge that inflation will cause higher rates of tax to prevail. The Budget depends on continued inflation to cover its imbalance. Under this Budget, more taxation will be paid- not less. Of course, it does contain a soak-the-rich element with its capital gains tax and property income tax surcharge. These new taxes represent a more honest approach than what has been done by the Government in its use of inflation. 
But there are 2 preliminary points to be noted with respect to these taxes. Firstly, one cannot finance big government merely by taking from the rich. In this country, the great bulk of income earners have a taxable income of less than $6,000 a year. If honourable senators look at the figures for the last financial year, they will see that approximately 85 per cent of the population earned $6,000 or less. When we get up into the league of the Ministers who sit opposite- the $20,000 a year and up men- we are dealing with a category that contains less than half of 1 per cent of the population. So there are simply too few rich to pay for the many. Secondly, if we remove the incentives to invest and profit, we will destroy the foundation of the growing economy that can finance the sort of social program the electorate so clearly wants. These higher taxation aspects of the Budget are self defeating and will give rise to great problems for the Government. The greatest of these problems will be growing unemployment which is chiefly the result of a complete lack of confidence in the private sector. The recently reported figures showing unemployment growing at 1,000 a day are a tragic reminder to the Government of the direction in which it is pushing the economy. I remind the Senate of Bill Snedden 's caution before the May election and his refusal to promise increases in social programs until inflation was brought under control. That caution was not the caution of a mean mind or spirit. It was the caution of a realist. 
There will be many speakers on the specific proposals that are contained in the Budget. What I would like to refer to is a particular problem which I see as having serious implications for the country in the long term, just as serious as the inflation about which everybody is so concerned at the moment. I refer to the acceleration of the Commonwealth takeover of State functions, to the growing power of central bureaucracy and to the destruction of local initiative in so many fields. The process of growth of central power is well known. It was documented by  Sir Robert  Menzies in his lectures at the University of Virginia and published as 'Central Power in the Australian Commonwealth'. But what was a drift has become a flood. The acceleration of the process is most simply demonstrated by an analysis of the changes in payments to the States over the 3 financial years up to the present. 
I refer honourable senators to Budget paper No. 7, page 5, table 1. It sets out the payments to or for the States and State Government Loan Council programs from 1972-73 to 1974-75. 1 direct the attention of honourable senators to the fact that in the area of general revenue assistance and in the area of general purpose capital funds there is a pattern of slow increase in the payments made to the States. But in the area of the section 96 grants, the area in which the Commonwealth basically controls what the States do with the money, we find that there is a massive increase in the payments made to the States. I refer to just a few of the figures given in that table. In the field of general revenue assistance, there has been an increase in funds provided from $ 1,700.9m to $2,375.9m over the 3-year period. When we turn to the specific purpose payments, the section 96 payments, we see an increase from $389m to $ 1,078m, an increase in the first instance of about 30 per cent and in the second instance of more than 250 per cent. The anomaly is even greater in the field of loans or capital funds. We find there an increase of only 5 per cent in the amount going to the States where the States have control of what is done with the money. In the funds made available under section 96 we find an increase of more like 300 per cent. This pattern has serious implications for Australia. 
I am opposed to the drift which is occurring, and I believe that most Western Australians are opposed to it. It is not fashionable at the moment to come out as a defender of the Federal system. People who regard themselves as politically progressive tend to label those who seek to defend the continued existence of the States and their independent power and authority as conservatives trying to turn back to the nineteenth century. In fact, I think history will show that those who are seeking to maintain the Federal system and the decentralised power structure that we have are the progressives. In the long term the threat to freedom in Australia is much greater if a centralised bureaucracy is established having control of all facets of government than if the principle is followed- it was the principle to which  Senator Martin  referred in her speechthat power should rest as nearly as possible with the people who are directly affected by the decisions that are being made by government. 
There have been many examples in the short life of this Parliament of legislation which is based on the premise that the central government knows best and that because rather similar problems occur all round Australia these problems can best be dealt with at a national level. The urban roads Bill and the rest of the roads legislation are classic examples of taking to the centre decisions which could just as easily be left to people who have to live with the decisions. 
There is of course a philosophic difference dividing us from the Government in this area. I recall  Senator Button,  in his maiden speech, referring to the difference between us. He referred to his puzzlement at the argument put forward by people that the Constitution provided a framework for government which was a bulwark for the freedom of the individual. I think the question raised by  Senator Button,  which is reported at page 50 of the Senate Hansard of 10 July last, points up the fundamental difference between Opposition senators and Government senators. It is one of those areas where attitudes seem to count for more than argument. 
In my view, it is self evident that the centralised bureaucracy must, if not initially, in time become unresponsive to the grass roots desires of the people. It ought to be a fundamental principle of administration- to repeat myself- that as far as possible the persons making the decisions have to face the people affected by the decisions. It is perhaps worth noting that 2 members of the Public Service here in Canberra who have had the fortunate experience of working in some of the more far-flung colonies of the Canberra complex drew to my attention the personal difference there was for them when they were out and had to face the people who were affected by their decision making. I believe that this is a simple fact and one of which we ought to be conscious at all times. 
Honourable senators opposite who cannot see the dangers inherent in centralised government in a country as large as Australia might usefully study the conclusions of their British counterparts which were published last week in a White Paper entitled 'Democracy and Devolution Proposals for Scotland and Wales'. In that small island of Great Britain we find the Labour Government proposing regional legislaturesnot just administrative bodies, but legislatures that will 'foster democratic control over the increasingly complex processes of modern government'. I do not have time to quote extensively from the report, but I commend it to honourable senators. I refer only to the conclusion. In paragraph 37, on page 10, it states: 
In its approach to devolution the Government is concerned to foster democratic control over the increasingly complex processes of modem government and to bring government closer to the people. The people and their representatives must have a full share in the decision-making process. This is the main objective- to make a reality of the principle of democratic accountability. The Government has now decided in principle the way in which this should be accomplished in Scotland and Wales. 
The first part of paragraph 38 states: 
The Government intends to legislate for the establishment of Scottish and Welsh assemblies as soon as possible. 
So England moves to decentralise legislative and administrative power as this inexperienced if idealistic Government tries to pull everything to the centre. 
An interesting example will be the Government's program on child care to which reference has already been made in this debate this evening- the child care program that appears, disappears and appears again. The Social Welfare Commission, at the direction of this Government, produced a report which basically recommended a program which is consistent with the principles that I have put forward. That program envisaged the child care scheme being run by local authorities as bodies which were closest to the people and hence capable of meeting the diversity of needs that exist in that area. But we find that very quickly the Government's Priorities Review Staff steps in and says: 'Caution hold'. The Priorities Review Staff argues against local control- another example, in my view, of not trusting those stupid people out there with their own destinies. It will be interesting to see who wins that little argument when the child care program is introduced shortly. 
I have said that there are philosophic differences between the Government and the Opposition on this point. But it is not just philosophy to me. As one who has recently come to Canberra from the very edge of the continent, I am continually depressed by the remoteness of this place. It seems to be quite unrepresentative of Australia. People are more affluent here than in the rest of Australia. Canberra does not have the problems that are suffered by the rest of Australia. It obtains its affluence and freedom from problems on the back of the rest of Australia. I regard it as a most unfortunate environment for our Public Service. It is too late now to undo what has been done, but I think that the only solution lies in making Canberra a more representative city by making it a city of industry as well as a city of government. The public servant of Canberra should live with the problems that are invariably brought to a city by those industries which produce the physical needs of the community. 
I return to the problem of who has the right answers for Australia. The fact of the matter is that if you want quality of life you have to start at the ground and work up; you do not start up in the clouds and work down. That, I think, is the tendency of the present Government. I believe that this bureaucracy in Canberra, which is so remote from the rest of Australia in its daily experience, and this inexperienced Government complement each other in devising schemes which are composed of dreams at the top and very little acceptance at the bottom. From the complaints I have heard about the administration of the Australian assistance plan in Western Australia it may well be our next great example of an apparently good idea suffocating in a bureaucratic noose. 
In making a plea for decentralised government I would not want to put across the idea that Western Australians are bad Australians, but the fact of the matter is that there is a vast physical distance between Western Australia and the rest of the States of Australia which it lumps together under the title 'the eastern States'. This physical barrier is matched by a psychological barrier and a strong belief in Western Australia that the people of the eastern States do not fully understand our problems. It is matched by an economy which differs from that of the eastern States. It is in this context that the people in my Party who selected me and the people who elected me in Western Australia would expect me to make judgments on matters which affect Western Australia and to exercise the power which has been vested in me as a member of the Senate. In saying this I am in no way suggesting that one can look at issues other than in an Australian context. It cannot, however, be in the interests of Australia that the western third should feel neglected and uncared for. I draw to the attention of the Senate the fact that in the recent Senate election there were secession candidates in Western Australia. I was grateful that they received only about 1.1 per cent of the vote, but I would caution the Senate against accepting that vote as a measure of the feeling in Western Australia about the desirability of the State managing its own affairs. 
A great deal of legislation which comes before this chamber significantly reduces the freedom of action of the States. The roads legislation which we recently dealt with is a good example, and the amendments which were put forward by the Opposition and ultimately accepted by the Government were amendments which were consistent with the principles that I have already mentioned. The Opposition is not always as successful, and indeed there is a great deal that the Opposition cannot do to protect the States. The States also have a responsiblity in preserving their own position, and perhaps their responsibility is the greatest. It is not possible for the Senate to do much about a Bill like the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill when the agreement approved by the Bill is signed by each of the State Premiers. Too often the history of CommonwealthState relations shows the States retreating without a fight, the retreat often sweetened by a few extra million dollars from the Commonwealth. The strong stand by the States on the road Bills made our action in the Senate practicable. The States are to be commended for the recognition of their own interests in that instance. They are also to be commended for their attempt on 10 July last to work out a common approach to the Commonwealth both with respect to inflation and financial relations. Unless State governments realise that whatever their political colours they have common interests and unless they make common cause I doubt whether they can survive. July 10 was in that sense historic. It will have been pointless if it turns out to be a unique occasion. In addition to the responsibilities of this chamber and the States, the Australian Government has great responsibility in this area. 
I remind the Senate of an answer which was given to me some time ago in reply to a question about the transfer of responsibility for State railways to the Commonwealth. I wanted to know what adjustments would be made to general purpose and specific purpose grants to any State which transferred responsibility for its railway system to the Australian Government. The reply from the Prime Minister was that the matter was under active consideration. I refer honourable senators to the Budget papers because whether or not there is to be active consideration the answer is, in fact, contained in Budget Paper No. 7 at page 13 under the heading 'Adjustments to General Purpose Funds to Offset Financial Effects of Shifts in Responsibilities Between Australian and State Governments'. In his speech at the June 1973 Premiers Conference the Prime Minister said: 
Where the national government undertakes new or additional commitments which relieve the States or their authorities of the need to allocate funds for expenditures at present being carried by them, there should be adjustments in the financial arrangements between us to take account of the shift of new financial responsibilities. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to the rest of that quotation. It makes it quite clear that in this takeover of State responsibilities we may well see a continuing squeeze on the financial resources of the States, not an easing of them as might have been expected. I believe that the Government has made it clear to the States that it will squeeze them until they are squeezed out of existence. 
The answer also is instructive in another sense because it referred to a letter written by the Prime Minister to the Premier of Western Australia in response to a request from that Premier for assistance to build a railroad from Eneabba to Geraldton. I will paraphrase the answer given by the Prime Minister. The answer simply says that until the State was prepared to re-open negotiations for the transfer of responsibility for State railways to the Commonwealth the Commonwealth was not prepared to talk about the possibility of providing any financial assistance for that railroad. In my view that is an odious way for the Government of the Commonwealth to behave. It is certainly a long way from the sort of co-operative federalism that I and my Party believe in. This sort of government will and ought to be resisted by this Senate. I shall certainly exercise my vote to resist it. 
Even if the Government had governed well over the last 2 years its commitment to expansion of Canberra control would have caused strong reaction, particularly in Western Australia and Queensland for reasons which I hope by now are apparent. When that expansion of government control is coupled with gross mismanagement of the economy the reaction had to be even greater. What these 2 factors coming together have done is to hold out the promise to the few extremists of the Left and of the Right in Australia that they might foresake the great system of responsible democratic government in favour of some extremist solution. I am sure that all honourable senators reject non constitutional solutions to our problems. But I remind honourable senators that on 9 July last Professor Downing, whom I had always looked on as a supporter of this Government, said in an address: 
The ultimate outcome of accelerating inflation is likely to be political revolution. I think democracy in Australia is at stake. 
It is in this context that the lunatic fringes of politics in this country are becoming respectable. At least they are prepared publicly to state their commitment to the destruction of the economy on the one hand and constitutional government on the other hand. If the Government permits the present instability to last it will carry a heavy responsibility. If Ministers hide from their responsibility by blaming the system they abet those who are preaching that the system should be destroyed. 
I conclude by saying that I realise that the silence that has greeted my words does not indicate assent by Government supporters. I think that the Government is beyond conversion and indeed, the next elections will show, beyond redemption. But I say to my electors that what we have to retain and perhaps in some cases regain in Australia is a sense that the individual is responsible for his own life, its quality, its level of achievement and the sort of country he lives in. We have got to get away from the ridiculous fiction that social welfare and education are obtained at no cost to the individual. There is a cost for every government program. We have to learn to relate our payment of taxes or charges to the services we actually receive. There is a fiction abroad that government revenues expand mightily each year without taking anything from the people and that, of course, is nonsense. It is the central nonsense of a bad Budget. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development to the statement in the Queen's Speech of 28 February 1974 to the effect that legislation to provide financial assistance to Queensland for the Ross River Dam and to Western Australia for water supplies for the Gascoyne plantations and Carnarvon would be presented. I note in passing that the legislation for the Ross River Dam went through the Senate a couple of days ago. I ask the Minister: Why was provision not made in the Budget for the Gascoyne and Carnarvon schemes? When can action be expected on that promise? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Government going to shelve or slow down implementation of its promise to provide for 'latch-key ' children. 
Will the Minister undertake to make urgent inquiries into this matter and provide the Senate with the results of his findings. 
My question is directed to  Senator James  McClelland as  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and it relates to a report of that Committee. I ask this question in the light of a statement in the Senate yesterday that the Committee limited its work on the Family Law Bill as follows: 
Indeed, it is only with regard to the term of reference relating to the clauses of the Bill that any work has been done. . . . 
Obviously the consideration of the clauses of the Bill was to be a pan of the consideration of the larger matter. What we are denied by this report is the consideration by this Committee of all the submissions which it received prior to 1 973 in terms of what should be the objectives of family law legislation in this country. We have, as it were, an isolated examination of the clauses of this Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I preface it by saying that it does not require him to agree with any criticisms of the Government. Does the Minister agree with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  that the trade union movement 'worked its guts out'- that is  Mr Hawke  's expression- to put a Labor Government committed to full employment into power? Does he admit that the trade union movement now feels, and indeed has been, let down by the Government? 
I would like to speak in support of  Senator Button's  amendment. In doing so, I would adopt the argument already put to the Senate by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and, indeed, by  Senator Button  himself. It is a little difficult to rise to speak in a debate following upon representations that have been made by honourable senators in regard to the calls by world famous architects for the preservation of this building. But it seems to me that this is a decision which has to be made by those of us who are presently members of the Parliament. We have to make the decision on the basis of what we see as being the real future of Parliament House. I am sure that, if we are united on one subject, we are united on the fact that this building is an inadequate parliament house and we must have a new one. The only question before us at the moment is whether the new parliament house ought to go on Camp Hill or Capital Hill. 
I would like to refer to just a couple of the arguments that were put by honourable senators during the second reading debate. Firstly, I think that Capital Hill is worthy of preservation in its present form because it is a pleasant aspect of Canberra which is unlikely to be improved by any man made structure. Secondly, I reject the arguments which have been put forward and which suggest that Parliament should dominate Canberra in some way. I agree with the arguments that have been put to the contrary, namely, that Parliament should form part of the city and not dominate it. Finally, I say that there are practical considerations which should interest all of us who are not within 2 years of retirement, or hopefully are not within 2 years of retirement. These considerations include the point that if we opt for a parliament house on Capital Hill it is extremely unlikely that any benefit will be received from it within the lifetime of the youngest of us here. It seems quite clear that if a parliament house is to be built on 
Capital Hill it will be many years- probably close to a generation- before Parliament can move into it. So, for a combination of practical, theoretical, and aesthetic reasons, I support  Senator Button  's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Button's  amendment) be left out. 
On some occasions I very much enjoy listening to  Senator Hall,  but on other occasions I am delighted that he chooses to accentuate his difference, and this is one of them. I am pleased that his antics amuse the Government; they merely make me tired. I rise merely to make a couple of comments on some inaccuracies in what was said by  Senator Hall.  In particular I refer to his major criticism or statement that  Senator Greenwood  got up and read a prepared statement at the direction of his Party. That is ludicrously and laughably false and the record should be put straight in that regard. 
The attitude of  Senator Hall  in this debate is typified by an aside he made when a quorum was called. He said then that  Senator Greenwood  has got to take his medicine. I believe that if  Senator Hall  sees himself as the dispenser of medicine to the Senate that attitude should be publicly known. I am in no way satisfied from what I have heard tonight that the prescription he has chosen to administer is of any value whatever. I defend the case put forward by  Senator Greenwood  and laugh at the proposition put forward by  Senator Hall.  If honourable senators want to see how foolish is the proposition put forward by  Senator Hall  they have only to extend it a little. If he is suggesting, for example, that the Government should have nominated as the Opposition's representatives at the Constitutional Convention himself, the other Independent and perhaps a member of the Australian Country Party and that that would have been reasonable and something which ought to have been acceptable to the Opposition, his thought processes are quite extraordinary. Quite clearly the Opposition was supposed to be represented at the Convention and not merely some rump group. 
I present the following petition from 76 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximim of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
All family matters must come out of the legal system. 
There must be no lawyers- no courts- and especially- no judges. 
DLRA's proposals must be considered for the new divorce laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where marriages are made. 
Guidelines to be established by mediators (nonlawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint custody and mutual financial support of children where possible. 
Child endowment to provide financial support of children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary civil matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of agreement should incur legal process. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since I9S9. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 206 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable The  President  and Members of The Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly petition the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia that it might take such steps as may be necessary either to direct the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to preserve and restore The Palace Hotel or itself acquire the said Palace Hotel St George's Terrace, Perth on its present site so as to preserve and restore it in perpetuity. 
Further we do humbly petition this honourable Parliament to make such funds as may be necessary available to purchase the entire contents of the said Hotel from the owners thereof. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I would appreciate your guidance on a matter of procedure. I take it that the debate on the second reading proceeds at this stage pending the motion being put. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  I rule that the honourable senator is speaking to the second reading of the Bill and the amendment. The amendment is before the Chair. 
1 had some doubts about whether I should speak in the debate on this Bill because already there has been a large number of contributions. I am sure that we have a lengthy Hansard. Most of the general issues of principle that ought to be debated in a second reading debate have been dealt with by various honourable senators in, I think, a most admirable and competent fashion. But in a sense my doubts about speaking in the second reading debate have been removed by the speeches made by  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I express my respect for the point of view they have put forward before I go on to explain why I disagree with it. I believe that point of view arises from a deep respect for the institution of marriage, a respect which I share. I hope that they can acknowledge that the difference between us and the difference between them- and other honourable senators who have spoken- is not a difference in attitude to marriage but in the belief as to what this Bill is about and what it achieves. 
I think it would be unfortunate if the people of Australia saw this Bill as an attack on marriage. If the people of Australia do see the Bill as an attack on marriage, to some extent the critics of the Bill will have indulged in self-fulfilling prophecy because a good deal of this argument is about the sort of attitude that people in the community have towards marriage. If enough people say- and people such as honourable senators and leaders of churches who are entitled to express their opinion- that this Bill fundamentally breaks down the concept of marriage, that in a way is telling the community that that is the sort of law which is being put before it. I do not believe that it is the sort of law that is being put before the community. Therefore I have an obligation, along with other honourable senators of my mind, to explain that point of view both to the Senate and to the electorate. Many of the people who share the fears that have been expressed here tonight and by  Senator Laucke  last night are people who have not read the Bill and never will read it. The detailed speeches made on the Bill by many of my colleagues will not be read by them and would mean little to them if they were read. What concerns people is the general tenor of this legislation. 
It is said that the Bill will weaken marriage and is an attack on marriage and that society will suffer from what might be described as permissive legislation. I have already made it clear that I do not accept that accusation although perhaps when I started my consideration of the Bill I did. As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which considered the Bill, I think it is fair to say to the Senate that when I started my consideration of the Bill I had deep misgivings about what the Bill might achieve. In the course of considering the evidence that was available to the Committee and of the issues that arose- the evidence has already been extensively canvassed by other honourable senators in this debate- I came to the conclusion that I should support the Bill subject to the amendments which are recommended by the Committee and subject to the further recommendations of  Senator Durack  and myself that 2 years, rather than 12 months, is the appropriate period of separation. 
There is a lot of dispute about the Bill which is before us. There is little or no dispute about the value of stable marriages and stable families to the community. In the main the family unit- the combination of husband and wife- is responsible for both the procreation and the rearing of children. It is clear that the pattern of our community, the social attitudes of the individuals comprising the Australian community are the product of family influences- both good influences and bad. There is also little or no dispute that the law ought to provide for divorce. In his speech  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson conceded the fact that divorce did exist and that the law has to provide for it. Even those churches, which generally deny that divorce ought to be available to their adherents, seem to agree that civil divorce should be available for the protection of parties to the marriage which has in fact broken down and for the regulation of the affairs of parties to such a marriage. I think that it is in the light of those facts that this Bill has to be consideredfirstly, the importance of the family to the community and, secondly, the fact that marriages do break down. 
When those 2 facts are taken into consideration it is almost impossible to quarrel with the generalised principles which were enunciated by the English Law Commission and which have been quoted several times in this debate. Because they are, in my view, such an adequate summary of what a divorce law should be about I would like to quote them again in the form in which they were quoted by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  when he introduced the Bill originally in December 1973. He said of a good divorce law: 
That it should buttress, rather than undermine, the stability of marriage and, when a marriage has irretrievably broken down, it should enable the empty legal shell to be destroyed with the maximum fairness and the minimum bitterness, distress and humiliation. 
Generalised as those criteria might be, in my view they adequately summarise the principles to be applied by this legislature. We must ensure that the Family Law Bill when it is passed- if it is passed by us- meets those criteria. 
I think it is appropriate that on a measure of this importance we are dealing with it as a nonparty matter. Each of us is forced to examine the Bill and make judgments on what it proposed and on the amendments that have been foreshadowed by the Committee,  Senator Durack,  myself and others. As a member of that Committee I believe that in the main the amendments proposed will bring the law into compliance with those criteria. 
Let me examine the criteria for a moment. The first question that is clearly raised is how a law providing for divorce can buttress marriage. The question can be put in the alternative as: How can a law which provides for the dissolution of marriages undermine the stability of marriage? I think that most people would find a ready answer to the latter question. It seems a matter of common sense that to allow immediate divorce by consent or after a very short period of time, or to permit divorce for less than serious reasons, would have 2 negative effects on the institution of marriage. Firstly, it would mean that parties to a marriage undergoing the normal stresses and strains to which every marriage is subject, might be tempted to take the easy way out. There can be no doubt that a successful marriage is based on a degree of mutual effort by the parties. I adopt the description of what makes a successful marriage which was put forward a few minutes ago by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. In all but the most fortunate marriages periods of happiness are punctuated by periods of strain. If divorce is too easily available there could be a temptation to take the easy way out over relatively minor difficulties. 
The second way in which an easy divorce law could undermine the stability of marriage is that it could affect the community attitude to marriage and hence the attitude of the parties who are entering into marriage. At present, notwithstanding that divorce is presently available, most people enter marriage in the hopeful belief that the marriage will succeed and that a lifelong relationship is being formed. To provide a legislative framework for marriage which suggestes anything less, which suggests that marriage could be lightly dissolved, would be to encourage the idea that marriage should be lightly entered into, as a matter of no great importance. I appreciate that honourable senators preceding me in this debate have quoted words from the marriage service which make clear the nature of Christian marriage, which I think is broadly the concept of marriage accepted by our community. I assure  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that I am not one of those who would regard the words he used as corny. I have a great deal of sympathy for both the propositions which I have put forward as being reasons for not having a divorce law which is too easy. 
I accept that the pattern of marriage which is established by the legislature is a factor in establishing community attitudes towards marriage. It is therefore a factor in determining the attitudes of people who are entering into marriage. In the long term the success of individual marriages will be affected by it. So I accept that it is our obligation to ensure that divorce is available only in these circumstances where it is clear that there has been a complete and irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. Divorce, like marriage, is something which ought not be undertaken lightly. Also I think it is important that the law must be seen to have marriage preserving provisions. But I think that the marriage preserving provisions which have been incorporated in the Bill and the further marriage preserving provisions which the Committee has recommended should also be incorporated, provide the sort of framework of respect for marriage that I require of the law. 
I say to the Senate that this Bill does not make divorce easier, and that surely is what the argument is about. If divorce were made uniformly easier by this Bill there would be some great validity in what has been said by both  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in putting forward a view which is held by others outside this chamber and obviously clearly held by them. The fact of the matter is that in many cases divorce will take longer to achieve than under the present system. In all cases of adultery, for example, which comprise a substantial number of divorce cases brought before the courts, the immediate remedy will no longer be available. In other cases where a spouse has had an extended period of cruelty inflicted on him or her, an immediate divorce will not be available because the party leaves and decides to take some action. In those cases divorce will be harder to obtain. So it is a misrepresentation to say of this Bill that it is aimed at making divorce easier. It is a pity that that misrepresentation should be noised abroad, for the reasons that I hope I have already made plain. 
In trying to put this Bill into some sort of context it should be remembered that ultimately the decision of whether or not a marriage has irretrievably broken down is something that has to be decided by somebody other than the parties themselves. If it is left to the parties- if ones goes along with the system which says that the parties merely declare the fact that the marriage is finished and permits immediate divorce by consentthat would mean that the community is washing its hands of its interest in marriage. So we have to introduce a third party to make a decision on whether or not a marriage is to be dissolved. But if a third party is to adjudicate on that question, the problem that this Senate has to face is whether it is fair to impose on the adjudicating person the job of deciding on a subjective basis whether a marriage has irretrievably broken down. I adopt the argument which was put forward by  Senator Durack  tonight, that to impose that job on a judge or indeed on anybody else would be to impose an impossible burden. We can not leave it to a matter of subjective judgment in each case. 
Just as the present law sets a series of objective facts which have to be proven if a divorce is to be granted, we have to accept that the real decision before us is whether we accept a single ground or multiple objective grounds in determining whether a divorce should be granted. 
It is clear, both from what has been said here today and from the evidence that was put before the Committee, that almost everyone who is involved in divorce, either personally or professionally, finds the present fault grounds unsatisfactory. In many cases those fault grounds are a sham because the parties are able to manufacture the ground that they require to obtain a divorce. In others where the parties contest the existence or otherwise of the ground they are the cause of bitterness, distress and humiliation, and in that they breach the second of the criteria to which I have already referred. I believe and I say to the Senate that the law and the community would be better off if inquiry into the subjective personal lives of the parties to an unhappy marriage could be reduced to a minimum. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that there has been a no-fault ground of separation for S years since 1959 throughout Australia and for many years prior to that in Western Australia. So I say it is not true that this Bill represents a wholly new legislative attitude to marriage. The law of this country for many years has been that unilaterally a party can bring a marriage to an end. While on personal moral grounds that might be regarded as offensive, I do not believe that the present Bill which is before us now represents a complete change of direction. I suggest to the Senate that proof of fault which has been defended by many people is of no value in itself. I do not regard it as a function of the divorce court to brand one of the parties to the marriage as being the party at fault. Again, anyone with experience in this field seems to find it impossible to lay fault at the door of one party. 
The real question is whether the position between the parties can be sorted out fairly without reference to the concept of fault. Clearly, on the evidence which was before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, it can be insofar as dissolution of marriage is concerned. The real problem seems to arise with the question of ancillary proceedings, that is, questions of custody and maintenance. I refer to the speech which was made by  Senator Laucke  yesterday. As one of the objections to the Bill he stated: 
But maintenance and custody decisions issued by the court cannot take into account irresponsible parental behaviour on the pan t.i'a husband or wife because the Bill itself eliminates the present concept of matrimonial fault which is very often the cause of irresponsible parental behaviour. 
Again, that statement is based on a misapprehension of what the Bill actually does. In fact, under this Bill the concept of fault is preserved with respect to proceedings relating to the custody of children. The conduct of the parties remains a factor to be considered when maintenance is being decided. So, in these areas where I think there is common ground between all people interested in this Bill the concept of fault needs to be retained, in fact it is retained. I do not deny that there is a change of emphasis but it is simply not true to say that fault has become irrelevant in these areas. 
In relation to the basic question whether a marriage ought to be dissolved the position is quite different. I submit to the Senate that there can surely be no better proof of the actual breakdown of a marriage than the fact that parties, for an extended period, have ceased to live together, have ceased to share their together in any sense. I find it hard to imagine that any other ground could be put forward as more legitimate proof of the fact that a marriage has broken down. I think it is clear that I support the abolition of the fault concept as far as it is possible, and it is possible with respect to proceedings for dissolution. 
One of the very odd features about the debate which has raged around this Bill and about the submissions which have been sent to me and, I am sure, to all other honourable senators is that some of the opponents of the Bill have strenuously objected to the fact that immediate grounds for divorce, such as adultery, have been abolished. They say that this is something which is unjust or potentially unjust to the parties. But I find it very hard to understand that argument in the context of a concern which is expressed at the same time that divorce should not be made easier. 
I am not offended by the loss of the right on the part of a spouse to obtain an immediate divorce because of a single act of adultery. I believe that the principle which we ought to be considering here is trying to avoid hasty decisions being made by parties to a marriage about bringing a marriage to an end. That is the principle which I think pays respect to the need in the community to preserve marriage. I favour the fact that this Bill will make it harder under certain circumstances to get a quick divorce. I welcome the fact that in every case now both the affronted party and the affronting party are forced to take time to consider the position. If, at times, that leads to periods of hardship for individuals then I think it is to be regretted but it is something which we have to tolerate in the interests of stable marriage. 
I think a practical problem is raised by opponents of the Bill in this area. They say: Well, look at the position of a wife whose husband illtreats her, behaves badly, perhaps enters into an adulterous liaison with another woman, who physically illtreats her and so on. Why should that woman be denied the right to immediate relief?' Of course she is not denied the right to immediate relief. The only denial is that she cannot obtain an immediate divorce. Under clause 90 of the Bill she has the power to obtain the protection of the court against bad behaviour, just as a husband has power to obtain the protection of the court against his wife's bad behaviour. She, or the spouse to adopt a neutral term, has the right to apply for maintenance and for custody. The only relief which is postponed is that divorce will not be available until the period of separation has expired. 
I will not weary the Senate with an account of the improvements to the Bill which have been proposed by the Committee. I think the proposals have been admirably outlined by various members of the Committee who have already spoken, including  Senator Missen  and  Senator Durack.  But I take the time of the Senate to remind honourable senators of the proposals for a family court; the proposal that proceedings for dissolution should not be commenced until the ground for dissolution has arisen and the proposal that counselling should be brought in before dissolution proceedings, if possible. All these are positive suggestions which go to the family strengthening aspects of the Bill. I advert to  Senator Baume  's suggestion that there is a fault in the Bill that counselling is being tied up with the court. I point out to the Senate that, in fact, all that is being done is to improve the counselling procedures which are available to the court without inteference to those counselling procedures which are available independently of any court, such as the various marriage guidance organisations. 
I have already referred to the maintenance problems which have concerned many critics of the Bill. Again, I commend the Committee recommendations which I believe meet the problem of the wife of mature years who is left in circumstances of need after a lifetime of service to her husband. There has been so much difficulty in getting across accurately just what this Bill does. For example, it has been said on several occasions that it is a revolutionary thing that a wife might have to maintain her husband. I assure honourable senators that that is nothing new in the law. For many years in Australia it has been possible for a husband, in particular circumstances, to obtain a property settlement or even maintenance, in some circumstances, from a wife. I believe that honourable senators have to take account of the fact that provided reasonable protection is given to any party to a marriage which has broken down, we have to acknowledge the fact that social mores are changing and that more and more women in fact are undertaking lives which are independent of the home, of their family and so on. 
I think it reasonable that the law should be taking into account the changing standards in this area. The obligation which is on us as senators is to ensure that no person is left in an unfair position. I will be very interested to hear contributions during the Committee stage on where the amendments which we have proposed will leave gaps which could give rise to injustice. 
I refer briefly to the notice which has already been given by  Senator Durack  that he and I propose to seek an amendment to clause 26 of the Bill when it is being dealt with in Committee. We wish to amend the Bill to provide that the period of separation required under clause 26 should be 2 years. Clearly, the judgment as to what is an appropriate period of separation is subjective and no more than a matter of judgment. I ask the Senate to consider a couple of points which I think bear out the fact that one year is not an adequate period. We have already heard the opinions of various churchmen cited by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and others about a concern that one year is not enough. We had a quotation from the Rev. Alan Walker who apparently wrote to a newspaper this morning. I, in common with other honourable senators, received a circular containing an extract of a speech by the Rev. Alan Walker within the last week. I was fortified by the fact that he chose the period of 2 years as being the appropriate term of separation which should be provided in the Bill. 
The present period provided in the Bill, one year, is subject to the provisions of clause 29. 1 think honourable senators should examine that clause when they are trying to decide whether one year is adequate, because it provides that in assessing the period of 12 months separation the Court is entitled to ignore a period of up to 3 months cohabitation which takes place during that 12 months separation period. I have not put that quite clearly because a full period of 12 months separation is required. If the parties can show that over a 15-month period, they have been separated for 12 months but together for three of those months, there is still a ground for dissolution available to them. I am in agreement with the objectives of clause 29 which is there to ensure that parties who are already separated are not discouraged from attempting reconciliation. 
I think that is obviously desirable. If we are trying to promote reconciliation we should be prepared to allow people to come together without their being held apart by the thought that perhaps they are destroying the ground for divorce if the coming together does not succeed. So the principle in clause 29 is good but it means that parties might commence divorce proceedings after perhaps only a few months apart, since they have been together for a period of up to 3 months. I think that when we consider the situations which could arise, they give us cause to reconsider the period of 12 months. 
The most important fact which we must consider in this regard is that many marriages go through periods of strain and tension. Reasons for strain and tension in a marriage may be psychological, physiological or economic. A lot of married couples have periods of separation which do not culminate in a final marital breakdown. Many young married people face difficult periods of adjustment which may involve periods of separation. My judgment is that I cannot be sure that a period of one year, particularly when it is subject to clause 29, is adequateadequate in terms of final proof that a marriage has irretrievably broken down. I believe that if other honourable senators share my doubt they should support the amendments which we will be moving. 
I think that the period of 2 years has the added advantage that it is almost hallowed by precedent because at the moment we have a ground which is desertion for a period of 2 years. In many cases the ground of desertion runs very close to consensual separation. I think that in the interests of approaching what is a very useful and necessary reform we ought to do so with caution. We ought to do so because marriage is important to the community, for the reasons which have been emphasised by  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I think that those reasons are shared by every senator who has spoken in the debate. I commend to the Senate the principle of no fault, proven, by a period of separation of 2 years rather than one year. 
I refer those people who believe that the Bill is inadequate because it does not deal with the whole range of family law to page 35 of the report of the Senate Committee. It deals with the proposals for the Family Law Council. I believe that it is in this area that we get the final rounding off of the legislative provision of family law at this moment. The Committee has recommended that the Family Law Council be strengthened and given extensive powers to advise the Parliament on the improvements which are required in the law in this area. The first proposal of the Committee is that the body which is established in the Bill, as it stands at present, should not be merely an advisory agency but should have a broad and continuing role in reviewing the operation of the Act and directing attention, in a formal way, to all matters which are relevant to a sound family law system. I emphasise the words 'to all matters which are relevant to a sound family law system'. There is another proposal which is not particularly relevant. The third provision is that the Council should have the express right to advise and make recommendations not only at the request of the Attorney-General, but also of its own motion. The fourth is that there should be provision for representatives of churches to be appointed to the Council. The fifth is that the Council should meet frequently. The final provision is that it should present an annual report for tabling in Parliament. 
I think that in putting forward those proposals the Committee was clearly actuated by the same motives which I contend have moved all senators who have taken part in the consideration of this Bill. I do not think that in any case there is any disrespect or lack of feeling for the family or for marriage- quite the reverse. Those people who deal with the unfortunate end of marriage, the people who deal with the dissolution of marriage, believe that the present system causes injustice, ill feeling and hardship and that it should be changed. I commend the Bill in the form I trust it will be in when it is amended. I support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I trust that it will be the first of further measures which will look to the strengthening of the family in Australia. 
I present the following petition from 4 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Like a number of questions, it is based on a newspaper report. I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the report that  Mr Egerton  said that the Australian Labor Party Caucus should be stricter with the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and Ministers who had made silly decisions recently. Can  Senator Murphy  assure the Senate that the Prime Minister has retained his authority over the Government and that the Prime Minister and other Ministers are still free to make silly decisions without interference from Caucus? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total amount of the refund of tax allowed for education expenses in the most recent year for which information is available. 
What is the expected saving in revenue through the cut in the amount of the education deduction to a maximum of $150 per child. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What action, if any, was taken following upon the visit made to Italy by the then Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  on the issue of entry permits to persons in that country who had been previously refused entry into Australia; if action was taken, how many entry permits have been issued to such persons. 
What were the grounds on which entry had been previously refused to these people. 
I present the following petition from 52 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1 974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maxium of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the joint announcement by the Minister and the Western Australian Minister for Community Welfare on 10 November 1974 and that a further $lm from the 1974-75 grant could be devoted to further village development by and for Aborigines in Western Australia. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether any requirement is laid down either by the Commonwealth or the State Government that such village developments take place in reasonable proximity to future employment opportunities or are accompanied by the development of employment opportunities near the village? 
I think that most honourable senators on this side of the chamber would agree with the comments that have been made earlier, that the Government is to be congratulated for the additional emphasis it has placed on legal aid. This is one of the fields- there are more than one- in which the Government has, in a very healthy manner, added emphasis to community trends. I believe that there was a trend in the community before this Government came into office that was providing wider and better legal aid services. But to congratulate the Government for the fact that it has paid some attention to the area is not to say that in every respect what it has done is correct. I am sure that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  would agree that in breaking new ground there will almost invariably be mistakes and areas which will need attention and rectification in the future. 
It is my view that the Government is making a mistake in the emphasis which it is placing in its program on the Australian Legal Aid Office. I do not think there is any need to argue in this chamber the position of the private profession. Let me refer briefly to the speech of the Attorney-General, which has been referred to earlier in this debate, made on 13 December 1973. 1 think that his words summarised the position aptly. He said: 
I have said that I see private legal practitioners, through their Law Societies or Legal Aid Committees, performing the major work in the legal aid field, that of litigation in the various courts. I hold firm views about the necessity for a strong and independent private legal profession that can stand between the Government and the citizens, not least in the fields of human rights, civil liberties and criminal matters generally. 
I agree with the Attorney that it is essential for the citizens of Australia that there is a free and independent legal profession. But the fact of the matter is that this Budget indicates a turning away to some extent from the existing avenues of legal aid. 
I do not accept the analysis of the situation that was made by  Senator Everett  with respect to the reduction in aid to existing legal aid services from $2m to $1.3m. As I understood  Senator Everett's  point, this will be offset by the additional moneys which will flow to the private profession through the Legal Aid Office. A sum of more than $3m is allowed for there. The members of the profession in Australia cannot be certain at this time just how and when those moneys will be made available. But, even more importantly, the existing legal aid systems which by and large around Australia work very well, are having an effective reduction in the amount of subsidy which is being provided direct to them by the Government. 
The Attorney said that the Law Societies or Legal Aid Committees will be performing the major work in the legal aid field. I believe that the Government is going against those words if it reduces the . amount of money which is made available to those organisations. There are very great practical reasons why we ought to keep the emphasis on the private profession, quite apart from the need to retain a strong private legal profession for the reason which the Attorney outlined. For a start, there are almost always 2 sides in any legal matter. Notwithstanding that administrative arrangements may be made which ensure that the 2 sides are kept apart physically in a single legal aid office, I believe it is undesirable for the 2 sides in any dispute or even in non-litigious transactions to be represented by the same office. Also, in the interests of the economy, I suggest that the Government could achieve its social objectives much better by supplementing the efforts of the private profession rather than by bureaucratic solutions. 
I refer the Attorney to the work of the Legal Advice Bureau in Perth with which I was involved before coming to this place. It provides the sort of preliminary legal advice which it is envisaged the Australian Legal Aid Office will provide. That advice is provided at the cost of $2 a client. I suggest to the Attorney that there is no possibility that he could rival that sort of economy in providing legal advice. I concede that in that case the professionals providing the service are not paid. I do not believe that an Australia wide operation could be financed on that type of voluntary basis. I am sure that any sort of financial analysis of that type of storefront operation will compare more than favourably with the Australian Legal Aid Office even when wages are taken into account. 
I commend the Attorney's attention to the operation of that scheme. I suggest that it is a much cheaper way of obtaining his objective than by the financing of the Australian Legal Aid Office. Even more importantly, if we want to guarantee high quality legal aid for indigent persons or persons of limited means I do not believe that we should be providing it through a bureaucratic service. All people who are entitled to legal aid are entitled to a good standard of service. I believe that that standard will be achieved if the Government uses the private profession with its wider experience and if it does not segregate the needy cases from the rest of the community. So in the interests of the quality of service that is being provided I again urge the Attorney to look to fostering solutions through the private profession rather than having a separate professional bureaucratic office. 
Notwithstanding the example of New South Wales which has been cited- I do not have the facts either to defend New South Wales or to agree with  Senator Everett-  I suggest that experience around Australia shows that the profession will co-operate with the Government. Let me refer to my own State and to the progress made in the last few years. We have been operating a legal assistance scheme which provides a full legal service on a free or subsidised basis. The only restriction on the expansion of that scheme is lack of finance. We have the Legal Advice Bureau which, for $2 a head, provides preliminary legal advice without means test. We have several offices operating under that scheme. We have a person providing part time service in the north-west. We have travelling solicitors in the more remote areas of the State. These people are financed by our legal assistance scheme. We now have duty solicitors in some of the lower courts. All these efforts are being provided by the private profession with some supplementary assistance from the Government. The only thing that prevents that wide range of services being expanded is a lack of money. 
I commend to the Attorney-General the proposition that if he wants value for his legal aid money he should finance the expansion of those schemes rather than add an office to them. However, I agree with  Senator Missen  that in a country the size of Australia the private profession probably will not be able to do the whole job. As a stopgap there may be a need to establish an office of the type of the Australian Legal Aid Office. But I ask honourable senators to accept the point of view that that should be done only where the private profession cannot provide the service. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows the question asked by  Senator Button. 
Will the Minister also prepare a list of projects which are being promoted by the States and which are being frustrated by the Austraiian Government, thus damaging the Australian economy? To assist him, I point out that the North West Shelf gas project, the Alwest alumina project and the Yeelirrie uranium prospect in Western Australia can be included in the list. 
There may be some misunderstanding about the effect of this amendment because if these words are removed lawyers for the parties will not be prevented from making representations to the court on behalf of their clients. In other words, the lawyers will still be able to make submissions relating to the attitude of their clients towards reconciliation. So I think that the primary fear that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson voiced will not really arise if the amendment is carried. The real deficiency in leaving the words in the Bill is that it suggests that the attitude of the lawyer himself is relevant- this is the point which the Committee was picking up. It is not the attitude of the lawyer but the attitude of the parties which counts and which the court ought to be taking into account. But the parties do not lose their rights and they do not lose the facility which the lawyer provides for them to put the point of view forward. I think that the primary fear really does not arise. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (4.29)- I am not clear, and  Senator Chaney  who has just spoken has perhaps confused me a little more. What is the situation in relation to one party wanting to be represented by a legal practitioner and the other not wanting to be represented? I seem to remember reading something about having a fool for a client when you represent yourself. 
It seems to me that the precise form of proposed new clause 14  a(1)  is not terribly material. The important point in addressing myself to the question that was raised by  Senator Greenwood  is that under proposed new clause 14  a  (2) it is envisaged that the Director of Counselling and Welfare will be permitted to take positive steps to arrange for counselling. It is only permissible under this clause. The clause provides that the Director of Counselling and Welfare may arrange for the parties to the marriage to be interviewed by a marriage counsellor. I think it is quite reasonable that before you call on an officer of the court, in the person of the Director of Counselling and Welfare, to take some positive step he should have some form of application in hand, some formal request from a party to the marriage that that sort of action should be taken on the parties' behalf. 
-Yes, but I think the fact that it is legalistic is totally irrelevant. The fact of the matter is that the person seeking assistance will go to the court and he will be given some form which he will have to complete and lodge. That will be an authorisation for the officer of the court to get out and do his job. It is quite different from proposed clause 14 B where facilities are merly being made available. Proposed clause 14  a  suggests that the Director of Counselling and Welfare will actually take positive steps at the request of one of the parties. 
Debates on areas where the Opposition is in fact voting for Bills seem to get more heated than debates in this chamber where we are voting against legislation. There is a mystery in that which I have not been here long enough to fathom. But I think it ought to be clear enough now from the speeches which have been made by the Opposition that while we support the fact that grants are being made to local government we are deeply concerned and we have misgivings about what the Government has been doing in the field of local government and about the attempts of the Government to achieve what might be, in theory, quite admirable aims. I suggest to the Senate that the Local Government Grants Bill is one of a series of Bills in which the bright promises of 1972 are being shown up as being rather hollow. I think the hollowness in this case has been amply demonstrated by the figures which were put before the Senate by  Senator Carrick.  Those figures show that the position of local government has, in fact, substantially worsened over the last few years for reasons which relate to the general economic situation. 
It is in that context that the promise which the Government held out to local government is not being fulfilled. I think it is clear from the Bill and from the statements which have come from the Government that what was intended was that local government should be lifted up and that there should be a meeting of the generally accepted proposition that local government was in need of additional sources of finance to enable it to better meet its existing commitments and to break into new fields. But the fact of the matter is that local government around Australia, and certainly in my State of Western Australia, is finding that it is- to use a colloquial expression- so strapped for cash that it just cannot do anything about extending the range of facilities which it is offering ratepayers. It is finding that even to maintain a standard of service it has to greatly increase the rates which it imposes on ratepayers. An average increase of somewhere in the vicinity of 30 per cent to 40 per cent is common. Yet the services which local government is providing under the budgets which imposed these increased rates are no better than the services it was providing before. 
I suggest that the Government faces this problem not only in the field of aid to local government but also in the fields of education, housing and roads where great amounts of money are being made available and yet the end result represents no improvement. In this chamber we have recently debated Bills relating to housing. Some pretty terrible statistics have been put forward showing the drop in the rate of home building notwithstanding the promise of this Government in that field. So the Government has broken new ground in an area where I think the community generally wanted it to break new ground. But unfortunately the Government is unlikely to achieve the objectives which it has set out to achieve. I think that the faults which have been thrown up by the Government's approach to this area are quite clear. Firstly there is the problem I have mentioned- the fact that the grants that are meant to top up, to add to the services provided by local government, in fact will do little more than alleviate some of the immediate strains of local government. I refer to local authorities in Western Australia such as the City of Stirling and the Shire of Wanneroo which, because of deficiencies in their loan programs, are facing the immediate prospect of cutting back on their works programs and of sacking large numbers of people. They are caught in the peculiar situation where they cannot get aid from the Government to enable them to avoid sacking large numbers of their outside staff until those people have been sacked and have registered for unemployment with the Commonwealth employment office. Then the councils might be able to employ them using Regional Employment and Development scheme money. That is an obvious problem which the Government faces and which it shows no signs of meeting. 
There is the problem of excessive paper work. What this Government is doing is imposing great administrative strains on local authorities. Local authorities are required to provide all sorts of information to the Federal Government- to the Australian Government, as I believe it is now called- and they have to add to their staffs or utilise their existing staffs simply to meet the administrative requirements of the Australian Government. So a paper war has been started and this is doing nothing to reduce the problems of local government. In fact it is exacerbating those problems. 
I want to refer to the use of the Grants Commission to hand out the money. I suggest to the Senate that that quite clearly is a use of the Grants Commission which is doomed to failure. I think everybody in both Houses of this Parliament would support the concept of the Grants Commission, as it has been used over the years, to equalise services available within the various States. That has been a noble concept which has distinguished our Federation and it is something of which the governments of this country can be quite proud. But to transform that Grants Commission from a body which can survey the needs of 6 States and endeavour to provide equalisation grants into a body which can survey the needs of some 902 local government authorities around Australia is quite ludicrous. I think it is quite clear to anybody who has been involved in any sort of administration that that is imposing on the Grants Commission a task which it simply cannot meet with any efficiency. 
If it does meet the task it has been set, I think my next criticism of the Government is one which will become very apparent. What the Government is doing will impose tighter and tighter controls over local government by the central government. It is quite clear that although these grants at the moment purport to be made without strings, requirements are being imposed on councils with respect to the rates they levy. They are being imposed in a clumsy way, as is evidenced in the documents tabled in the other place. For example, a council that has high valuations and hence a lower rate than an adjoining municipality is penalised. What more clumsy assessment of a situation could you have than that. We are going to get that sort of control. But additionally in future years as the Grants Commission continues its work we are going to get the requirement that councils make an equal effort, as in the past there has been a requirement that States make an equal effort to benefit their own citizens. What we are seeing is a pattern by which local government becomes more and more an administrative tool of the central government, and that, of course, will destroy the whole concept of local responsibility and local government. 
In the few minutes remaining to me- it is the common view of all honourable senators here tonight that this Bill should be passed so that the money can be made available to local governmentI would like to refer to the Liberal approach to this area. It is often said that it is all very well to criticise what the Government is doing but what would we do. I refer to our acknowledgement of the need to assist local government. We join with the Government, and in fact with most people in Australia, in acknowledging that the needs of local authorities cannot be met by simply leaving them to rely on rates alone. We say that the additional funds which need to be made available to local government cannot be made available through a central authority. That cannot be done, both for theoretical reasons and for reasons of administrative practicality. We recommend a series of State Grants Commissions. There is some precedent for that because 2 States, including my own State of Western Australia, already have set up bodies of that type which perform the same sort of function as the Grants Commission tried to perform in this case but over the more limited area of the State. As some officers of one of the major municipalities in Western Australia that I visited with  Senator Carrick  just a few weeks ago said, it is all very well to try to deal with these people in Canberra but if you have a problem you cannot just go across the road and solve it. He said that he, and other officers, wanted to deal with the people in Western Australia who are available to them and are known to them. We say that the Government should restore to the States the job of providing funds for the local authorities. Of course, to do that the Commonwealth will have the responsibility of ensuring that the States have adequate finance to perform that function. 
In this area, as in so many others, we would also have to say that the problems of local government will not be solved simply by making large financial grants. The approach of providing assistance to all these areas of need that the Government has developed is quite ridiculous because of the unstable economic situation that the Government has produced. We say that all these programs of assistance will make sense only in a stable economic climate in which the additional funds being made available can be used to provide additional services, not merely to meet the strains which have been imposed by rampant inflation. 
I think that the comments just made by  Senator Everett  are not quite correct, because if he opposes amendment No. 33 and in fact it is defeated, no harm at all is done by adding the words that it is now proposed to add in amendment No. 32. 
1 think we can take it that what  Senator Everett  has said is not addressed against amendment No. 32 in its amended form. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment, as amended, agreed to. 
I speak in favour of proposed new clauses 17s and 17T against the proposed amendment by  Senator Greenwood.  I do so basically for the reasons already put forward by  Senator Everett,  but I add to them that the practices and procedures of this court will be of particular importance if we are to meet the ambitions that I think Parliament has for the Family Court. I think it is particularly necessary that the Parliament be responsible for overseeing the regulations under which the procedures will be governed. I think that is the appropriate way for the matter to be dealt with. 
I address myself to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood  and which has been adverted to by previous speakers.  Senator Greenwood  asked why we wanted a Commonwealth Family Court instead of having merely State Family Courts. I reply to that question by saying that if the Committee accepts the idea that it is desirable that there should be a Family Court to administer this area of law, the fact is that the only court that this Parliament can definitely establish is a Commonwealth court. All that can be done if we want to retain a State court structure is to invite the States to set up courts which will be vested with jurisdiction. If the States choose not to accept that invitation the Parliament is left with the proposition- this is if we went along with what  Senator Greenwood  said- that we are going to allow matrimonial causes to be administered by courts other than family courts. I would find it difficult to accept that proposition. Therefore I would say, in answer to  Senator Greenwood,  that the situation is that we need to set up a Commonwealth court if we are to be certain that we are going to be able to have a Family Court. But I would agree with him that it is desirable, that these courts, if possible, be State courts. Therefore I commend to the Committee the later amendment put forward by  Senator Durack, Senator Missen  and myself which will hold out to the States the invitation to establish a court which can be invested with this jurisdiction. 

 - Mr Chairman, I am flattered to be mistaken for  Senator Durack.  I am glad that this time the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  spoke between me and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson because the last time that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson asked for clarification I spoke and he then announced himself more confused than ever. 1 trust that the intervention of the Attorney-General will help me to get my point across. I think there is common ground in this debate to the extent that it is generally agreed we ought to have a family court which will administer the law in this area. I think it is also common ground that if that family court is to succeed it will wind up exercising not only Commonwealth jurisdiction but also some areas of State jurisdiction. It is in that context that we have to look at the amendment moved by  Senator Missen  and supported by me. If the States and the Commonwealth can come together on this concept of a family court I think in the future it will be far easier for the States to ensure that this one family court in the States is given all the appropriate jurisdiction, both State and Federal. 
Again it is in that context that I do not have any difficulty with the points that seem to worry  Senator Greenwood  so much. The idea of an appointment by the States which requires the approval of the Attorney-General, while it might be without precedent, is really not so difficult to comprehend when looked at in that context. The situation is that the appointees will be exercising jurisdiction in fields which will be the concern of both the State and Commonwealth, so why should not the 2 jurisdictions get together and agree on appointees being people who are appropriate, assuming that they can agree on the common concept of a family court. In fairness to those supporting this amendment I point out to the Attorney-General that he is in the situation where if a State will not co-operate with him and go along with the idea of a family court within these guidelines, he will be free to go ahead and develop his Commonwealth court. The point is that there is a sanction on the States to require them to co-operate. In turn there is some fetter on the Attorney-General in that he does not have the unfettered power to create an unlimited number of judges to the court. So I think we have a situation where both the Commonwealth and the States will be forced to come together and to co-operate in the production of the Court. If they do not  Senator Murphy  will have his way, his Court will be created and it will be a totally Commonwealth court. 
With respect to the retirement of judges at 65 years of age again I think it is common ground that we do not want judges on this particular Court who are geriatric. We take that view because it is the rare man who can get into real old age and still maintain the sort of understanding that we want to permeate this Court. It is no use pointing to exceptions like  Senator Wood,  who might say that they are over the retiring age being proposed, because the exception does not prove the rule. I would say, for the reasons I have put forward, that the concept we are putting forward is quite sound. Although I can sympathise again with the call by  Senator Greenwood  for something more clear cut, I say to him that it is one thing to have a nice clear cut piece of legislation when it is being put forward as a Government measure which can be totally compatible with a government's philosophy or approach to the matter, but this happens to be a non-Party Bill.- There happen to be a variety of views around this chamber as to the way the thing should operate. The fact of the matter is that I hope we will wind up with something which is neither exactly as  Senator Murphy  would have wished it nor exactly as  Senator Greenwood  would have wished it but perhaps something which represents a reasonable middle ground that all can support. The fact is that both the States and the Commonwealth will be under sanctions to produce the sort of court that we all agree is wanted. 

 Senator Button quoted paragraph 38 of the Senate Standing Committee's report which he and I had some very small part in producing. It was pointed out to him, by way of interjection, that he had failed to draw attention to paragraph 
1 take a little of the time of the Senate to refer to that paragraph. It states: 
The Committee has not conceived its duty to be to solve this problem - 
The problem of establishing a family court-  which is however a matter of essential importance to the Australian Government. However one possible solution to this problem is along the following lines, namely that the Australian Government immediately approach the various State Governments to seek their co-operation as follows - 
There follows a series of criteria which in the broad are along the lines which are put forward in  Senator Missen  's amendment.  Senator Button  had the temerity to chide  Senator Missen  and those supporting this amendment with some sort of doctrinal or doctrinaire approach to this matter. He suggested that perhaps we were motivated by some romantic attachment to the concept of federalism. 1 have made my position clear on this matter. I have a romantic attachment to the concept of federalism, but I suggest that those members of the Committee who felt able to put this forward as a possible solution to the problem and are now recanting from it are indicating perhaps they are activated by some doctrinal romantic attachment to the concept of centralism. Quite frankly 1 think  Senator Button's  contribution to the debate was, unusually, of no assistance to honourable senators who were genuinely trying to find some solution to the problem. 

 Senator Everett's contribution was to damn the proposal as futile, wasteful and confusing. He damned it outright and not with feint praise as did  Senator Greenwood.  Again I ask the Senate to consider  Senator Everett's  comments in the light of the facts as to what we have already approved in this Bill. We have not yet approved a vast Family Court of Australia which will sit as some big brother up against little State courts which will have some lower status. What we have approved is the appointment of 6 judges. I hope that, if  Senator Missen  's amendment is accepted, if the States approach this matter in a spirit of co-operation and if the AttorneyGeneral approaches this matter in a spirit of cooperation, 6 judges might be as many as would be needed. In fact we would then have a system of family courts around Australia which would be State courts and the Family Court which we have approved under clause 17 of the Bill would simply be required as an appellate court, as a court perhaps to fill gaps where the States were not able to provide facilities. The whole idea of having a wasteful twin hierarchy of courts is a figment of  Senator Everett's  imagination as the legislation stands at present. All that we are committed to is the appointment of quite a small Federal court. If  Senator Missen  's amendment is accepted we can have within the States the creation of family courts which fit the pattern the Committee seems to be agreed is required but which exercise virtually the whole of the jurisdiction within each of the States subject only to the appellate jurisdiction of the Family Court "of Australia. 
As far as the proposition that was put forward by the Attorney-General is concerned, that the State judges would not be part of the team, I remind him of the support that he received from some of the proponents of this amendment for the control of the regulations being retained by him. I suggest that, with his control over the appointment of judges, there is ample power for him within the provision that we are putting forward to ensure that the States go into this matter in good faith to create the sort of team that he wants. I am sure that all members of the Committee would agree that the Family Court of South Australia is an example of the sort of court that we are anxious to see established around Australia. It may need its jurisdictions extended, varied and so on in some areas, but the approach is basically the sort of approach about which we have all been talking. I suggest that those people who say we cannot achieve through State courts the objective that we have set ourselves are allowing themselves to be befuddled by a doctrinaire approach to the matter. I suggest that, in an area where we do want the States ' cooperation to get the remaining areas of jurisdiction vested in the Family Court, the sort of proposal which is put forward by  Senator Missen  deserves support. 
I do not support the idea that this is a clumsy and confusing idea. If in fact the State courts are established and are able to handle the bulk of the work there need be no confusion in the minds of members of the public as to where they go. If there are shared premises and the Federal court is performing fairly limited functions there need be no confusion in the minds of either the public or the practitioners. I say this is a reasonable solution in an area where some compromise is required. We should not compromise the basic concept of the Family Court. I think the good faith of  Senator Missen  and those of us who have supported this amendment is demonstrated by our support for the various amendments to clause 17 that were moved by the AttorneyGeneral. We have put it within his power to get the court he wants if the States will not cooperate. We are asking him to give the States the opportunity to co-operate and to provide the court with a basis which I am sure will be more totally satisfactory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission allow a factor for inflation in the recurrent costs of education in Government schools; ifso, what was the factor between 1973 and 1974 and between 1974 and 1975 used in compiling the 'Schools in Australia' Report. 
Is the escalation of expenditure referred to in Paragraphs 6.45 and 6.54 of the Report based on an assumption that there would be an increase in recurrent costs of 10 per cent in the non-Government sector of Australian education. 
Has there been an actual increase in recurrent costs in State schools in Australia between January 1973 and January 1 974; ifso. what was the percentage increase. 
Has there been any further increase between 1 January 1974 and 30 June 1974; if so, what was the percentage increase. 
If a disparity exists, or is found to exist, between any inflation factor used in compiling the 'Schools in Australia' Report and the inflation of recurrent costs since its compilation, will the Government make an appropriate adjustment to grants for recurrent costs of education, as set out in Table 14.3 ofthe Report, so as to restore value to the grants; ifso, what adjustment. 
Is inflation of recurrent costs in schools reducing the value of grants to non-Governmet schools below that which would have applied if the 20 percent under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 had been continued. 
I commence my remarks with a plea to the Committee that we not spend too much time on this because I do not believe that it is of enormous significance. I think we have a duty to proceed with the Bill with reasonable expedition. I should like to say that I support clause 27. I oppose  Senator Greenwood's  amendment. I support the addition of the words recommended by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I believe that clause 27 will, with the inclusion of the words recommended by that Committee, remove what is a distinction between the rich and the poor in this field of the law. I think that really that is about all that needs to be said about the clause. 
As a co-sponsor of the proposal put forward by  Senator Durack  I should like to take a little of the Committee's time. The reasons which I had for supporting the proposal I set out in my speech on the second reading stage of the Bill. I shall try not to canvass the same ground. I agree with those honourable senators who have spoken and who have suggested that this is a matter of subjective judgment. In fact that is a comment I made in my speech at the second reading stage. It appears to me that the subjective judgment which is being made by proponents of the oneyear period is a bolder judgment than the one which is being made by those of us who believe that that period is not adequate. What is being put forward is that a 12-month period of separation is adequate proof that a marriage has irretrievably broken down. If I may give a completely subjective view on the matter, my belief is that there would be marriages where a separation for up to 12 months would occur and in fact there was not irretrievable breakdown. When one takes into account the provisions of clause 29, which have just been referred to by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, then I would say that if the period of 12 months is accepted there would be occasions when a marriage with some hope for reconciliation might be brought to an end. So since there are doubts in my mind, I find it necessary to support this amendment. I am fortified by the fact that other people in the community have expressed the same view. I was very encouraged one day when I got 72 letters all of which expressed that view or a view I think in favour of mine but unfortunately I got them all on the one day and nothing subsequently so I suspect they did not show any - 
Well, they were not as much help to me as perhaps more sporadic correspondence might have been. 
I should like to refer to some considered opinions that were made available to honourable senators prior to this debate coming on. I refer to an address given by the Rev. Alan Walker in Sydney on 20 October in which he expressed a number of reservations on the Bill. He said: 
. the period of one year of separation is not long enough. The former Act prescribed live years of separation which is too long. 
He went on to say: 
Therefore the period of effective separation should be extended to two years. 
The Rev. Alan Walker is a clergyman not of my faith but he is a man who, I understand, has always shown an active interest in social issues and his opinion is worth some consideration. 1 was further fortified by the views of the Bishop of Wangaratta, the Right Reverend K. Rayner, who 1 understand is an Anglican bishop. He wrote in terms which were generally complimentary of the Bill on my reading of his letter. He said in a letter which was addressed to the Attorney-General- he forwarded a copy to the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden-  in the third paragraph: 
I would myself accept the irretrievable break-down of marriage as the basis for divorce legislation, but I am not convinced that the mere fact of twelve months separation in itself is sufficient evidence that a marriage has irretrievably broken down. 
He went on in that letter to support the proposal of the minority, namely  Senator Durack  and myself, to increase the period of separation to 2 years. Another Anglican view put forward to the Standing Committee was that of the Archbishop of Melbourne, the Primate of the Church of England in Australia, Frank Woods. In his submission to the Committee he said:   . . I think nearly all Anglicans would agree wilh the tenor of the English Report called 'Putting Asunder', which believes thai State Courts should be no more than formal inquiries as to whether a marriage has irretrievably broken down or nol. In this connection T fmd that many Anglicans have difficulty in accepting that twelve months is an adequate period of separation other than in cases of total abandonment. 
Those admittedly subjective views which fit in with my own have encouraged me to support this amendment. I would suggest that since 2 years has been the period of separation required in desertion cases to date- and that ground, I think, is one which has been considerably availed of lately- if we do introduce a period of 2 years we can do so confident that we are not introducing some really radical change which might have the sort of effects which have been dreaded by some of the honourable senators who have been opposed to this Bill. 
I refer very briefly to the results of polls that both the Attorney-General and  Senator Missen  have mentioned. I have only the detailed figures for the poll which was taken last year and which similarly showed considerable support for allowing divorce after a separation of 12 months. I draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that the question asked in that poll- I am specifically referring to last year's poll- was not really relevant to clause 26 because the question was phrased as follows: 'If a husband and wife tell the court their marriage has broken down, should a divorce be granted or not?' The question presupposes that the parties are in agreement that the marriage has broken down. 1 would suggest that the results of that poll are more relevant to the amendment which has been put forward by  Senator Baume  and which has yet to be considered by the Senate because what those figures show is that in a consensual situation where the husband and wife agree that the marriage has broken down - 
It requires both the husband and wife to tell the court that the marriage has broken down. That is what the question specifically says. In my view that poll is of no great assistance in a -discussion on the ground which one party alone may bring forward over the objections of the other party. My support is for a period of separation for 2 years. I would suggest to the Committee that we cannot be certain that the period of one year is an adequate period to show irretrievable breakdown. The fact of the matter is that for any number of reasons a marriage may go through a period of stress and that period of stress may be considerable. I think that in the consideration of this clause we ought to give marriages benefit of the doubt. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  and also the Leader of the Government. I ask the Leader of the Government: Does the Government agree with  Mr Hawke  that the pay rises granted to Commonwealth public servants last Monday are not inflationary? Are those rises consistent with the Government's stated view that wage restraint is a necessary ingredient of an anti-inflationary and antiunemployment policy? 
I will not take a good deal of the time of the Committee but a couple of points mentioned by  Senator Milliner  should be answered. First of all, there has been no confusion about the Opposition's attitude to this Bill because the attitude was made clear in the other place when it moved as an amendment that the following words be added to the motion that the Bill be read a second time:  whilst not opposing the positive sections of the Bill which relate to nursing homes, handicapped children and surgical appliances, this House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted - 
Here are the critical words-  to omit those provisions which relate to unnecessary ministerial control over health insurance funds and the additional provisions which relate to friendly society dispensaries. 
So if there has been any confusion, it is in the mind of  Senator Milliner  because what is clear is that we have not been moving amendments; we have merely been opposed to the passing of certain clauses. I think that is probably the origin of the confusion which obviously existed in his mind. In respect of the idea of competition- as a Liberal I do pay heed to the principle that we ought to be encouraging competition- I point out that friendly societies are now largely commercial trading bodies which at the moment enjoy certain competitive advantages over private pharmacies, and in particular they enjoy certain tax advantages. I for one would support a general review of the law which ensured that private pharmacists and friendly societies were put in an equal competitive position, and then I would agree that some of the restrictions which at present exist on the expansion of friendly societies might well be removed, but until there is equality of competition, until the taxation laws apply equally to both bodies, I would suggest that the comments that have been passed by  Senator Milliner  are totally irrelevant to the present debate. I support the omission of the clause from the Bill which would widen the unfair competition which is at present faced by private pharmacists. 
My question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relates to answers given by him to questions asked by Senators Carrick and Greenwood. I ask him: Is a person's commercial and business history a relevant consideration in assessing suitability for appointment to the staff of a Minister and, in particular, to the staff of the Treasurer? 
-Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on a visit to Leonora late last year, in particular to the offices of the Shire of Leonora, accuse the Shire of misusing funds paid to the Shire for the purpose of a special works project for Aborigines? If the Minister did make such an allegation, has he had the allegation investigated? If he did, what action has followed the investigation? If he did not, will he do so? If the allegation is groundless will he apologise to the shire? 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What training is given to members of the Australian Army in the area of control of civil disturbances and maintenance of internal security. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, by saying that I am sure he and I agree that there is a need to provide accommodation for Aborigines at Laverton. What was the cost of the experimental circular shelter with the opening in the centre of the roof that has been erected at Laverton by his Department? 

That the Senate declare its opinion that, on the making of grants of financial assistance to the States under section 96 of the Constitution, the Commonwealth Parliament should ensure that: 
the grants to the States are free of restrictions, in detail, that infringe upon the power of the States to determine policy in their own areas of responsibility; and 
as far as possible the detailed administration of national programs, financed by specific purpose grants made under section 96 of the Constitution, should be carried out by State Governments or Local Authorities authorised by them. 
I think it is fairly clear to everybody in Australia and certainly quite clear to everybody in the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the present Government would like to carry out some fairly drastic surgery on the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia. I think it is also clear that the Australian electorate has denied that opportunity to the Prime Minister and the Government. It is also clear that it will continue to deny him that possibility and that it will deny him access to the scalpel of constitutional amendment whereas he still has access to what I would call the bludgeon of section 96 of the Constitution. It is my suggestion to this chamber that he has set out in a quite determined way to use that bludgeon to shape the Constitution more to his liking and into a form which is generally not acceptable to the Australian people. 
I suggest to the Senate that the Government has long passed the stage of using section 96 for its legitimate purposes. It is now being abused as an instrument for the repression of the States and for the excessive extension of the growth of the Commonwealth Government's power. They may be harsh words to use about what appears in the Constitution to be a fairly inoffensive section. Section 96 reads: 
During a period of ten years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
The section is in terms that suggest that it is there to be helpful to the States, to be of assistance to them. I am one who believes that section 96 in one form or another is a section which is needed in the Constitution so that the national Government of Australia is able to carry out the sort of principle which has been laid down for the Grants Commission to follow. It is a principle which I think expresses in an important way the spirit of togetherness that ought to motivate the Australian people. Section 5 of the Grants Commission Act of 1 973 states: 
References in this Act to the grant of special assistance to a State are references to the grant of financial assistance to a State for the purpose of making it possible for the State, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other States. 
We have the concept there of the Commonwealth's providing funds to ensure something like an equality of standards among the different States of Australia, so that a citizen in Queensland has roughly the same sort of life and access to the same sort of facilities as has a citizen in Western Australia, Victoria or any other State. If we are to have a national government we will find it necessary, as has been found necessary in other federations, to have some sort of machinery for equalising the positions between different areas which of necessity, in a country as large as Australia, have quite disparate resources to help themselves. In putting forward this motion I do not in any way suggest that there is not a Commonwealth role to be played. What I suggest is that section 96 must not be abused. It must be used in the spirit in which it was put in the Constitution. 
During this speech I would like to present an examination of a number of things. Firstly I would refer to the Labor Party's approach to the Constitution. I think that an examination of this kind is necessary to put into context the way the Government is behaving at present. I would also like to refer to the Government's recent attempts to amend the Constitution because that will get us away from mere words and give us actions by which we can judge the Government and its attitude to the shape of Australia's administration and government. Then I would like to refer to the way that section 96 has been used in the past, not only by this Administration but by previous administrations, and its use by the Government since 1972 in particular. I think that that final examination will show that there is a totally different spirit abroad in regard to the way that section 96 is being used. I am sure that even members of the Government in this chamber would accept, after even a little examination, that the present use of section 96 is beyond what was intended. I point out that it was fairly clear at the time that the Constitution was enacted that this section was to be only an interim measure because it refers to 'a period of 10 years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides'. For reasons which I think are generally acceptable within Australia, section 96 is going to be with us far longer than the 75 years for which it already has survived. 
The other problem which I think arises from the Government's use of section 96 is that it represents a false approach to public administration. That approach can be summarised in the term that 'bigger is better'. In this field there quite clearly is a division between senators on this side of the chamber and those on the other side. We as a group do not accept the thesis that big government is necessarily better than a series of small governments trying to achieve the same sort of objects. 
But to return to the Labor Party's approach to the Constitution, it is something which the Labor Party has not been shy about. Its approach is quite well documented in the public records that the Party puts out. I want to quote firstly from the platform of the Australian Labor Party. In part IV of that platform, on the first page, we find a series of constitutional matters for which the Labor Party stands. It stands, amongst other things, for amendment of the Australian Constitution to clothe the Parliament of Australia with such plenary powers as are necessary and desirable to achieve international co-operation, national planning and the party's economic and social objectives. I do not propose to go through this platform, which is a fairly lengthy document, to set out the Labor Party's economic and social objectives, but it is common knowledge in this chamber and elsewhere that it has very broad social and economic objectives, and in particular, one objective we find the democratic socialisation of industy, production, distribution and exchange to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation, and so on. In fact there is a very wide ranging program put forward by the Labor Party which would require substantial amendment of the Australian Constitution if it is to be directly brought into operation. 
What I would like to talk to the Senate about is the fact that the Labor Party has seen a second way of doing this, an indirect way which perhaps has got around the need for the constitutional amendments that it claims in its platform that it wants. The platform provides further that the Party will abolish the Senate. The offices of State Governors and State Legislative Councils also are to be abolished. It says that this aim is not to be interpreted in such a way as to prevent steps being taken to effect reform of those councils. Therefore we have in the platform the clearest possible indication that the Labor Party wants a strengthening of the power of the central government, the abolition of this chamber, and the abolition of the upper Houses in the States and of the offices of State Governors. 
These are views which the Labor Party is entitled to put before the people of Australia and the people are entitled in their turn to reject them. I am sure everyone in this chamber would agree that they would be rejected if they were put forward in a referendum. It might be asked: Why does the Labor Party want to bring about these changes to the Constitution? If honourable senators look at the published documents of the Labor Party, and in particular to some of the addresses of its present leader and the present Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Whitlam,  they will find a fairly clear indication of why the Labor Party finds the present constitutional arrangements in Australia quite unsatisfactory. I can summarise what I am about to quote from a speech by  Mr Whitlam  by saying that the Labor Party resents the fact that the Constitution represents some fetter on its ability to do whatever it likes to the Australian community. 
I want to quote from an address given by  Mr Whitlam  as long ago as 1957, the Chifley Memorial Lecture. The address is headed 'The Constitution versus Labor'. That heading in itself is fairly instructive because we see the Constitution set up as an opponent of Labor and therefore something which presumably is to be tackled by it and battled with.  Mr Whitlam  said in that address: 
The Federal Parliament enjoys under the Constitution ample opportunities for redistributing income among Australians and carrying out other superficial and palliative reforms. 
He went on to refer to the fact that the Commonwealth Government does have an overwhelming financial power. So we have no concern on the part of  Mr Whitlam  about the ability of his Government to redistribute income and to carry out general social reforms. He went on to refer to the fact that the Party at that stage was reespousing or reaffirming the socialist faith which it used to have back in the days of Chifley.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
It desires to remould society and the economy, not merely to redistribute wealth among Australians where they are but to guide investment towards the development of the country as a whole, to rationalise and modernise industry and community services so as to provide all Australians with more value for their incomes. Thus Labor has repudiated the North American and Western European roles which its rivals would impose upon it and continues the same role as its sister parties in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. 
He went on to refer to something which perhaps is re-occurring now, the frustration and demoralisation in Labor's ranks. He said: 
Much of the frustration, and even demoralisation, in Labor ranks in recent years flows from the fact that the Australian Labor Party, unlike the British and New Zealand Parties, is unable to perform, and therefore finds it useless to promise, its basic policies. 
So in 1957  Mr Whitlam  suggested that the Constitution had put it beyond the power of the Labor Party to perform. He went on to say: 
It has been handicapped, as they were not, by a Constitution framed in such a way as to make it difficult to carry out Labor objectives and interpret in such a way as to make it impossible to carry them out. 
In that brief extract I think it is made clear that we have an attitude in the Labor Party which is born of the fact that it sees the Constitution as preventing it from imposing its pattern on the community. 
Later in that speech  Mr Whitlam  made it clear that the Constitution also places substantial fetter on the Labor Government's power to nationalise industry. In that speech he also asserted the faith of the Labor Party in central government. This, of course, is an area where again there is a difference between senators on this side of the chamber and senators on the other side.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
Only the Commonwealth Parliament has the financial resources and the nation-wide outlook to carry out any of them. 
The phrase 'any of them' refers to the various reforms he mentioned earlier in his speech. He made one of his usual critical passing references to the States when he said: 
The present State boundaries were imposed on Australians a century ago from Westminster. There is no economic reason for preserving them. They merely serve to maintain the domination of the commercial and political interests which are centred in the State capitals. 
So we have a general view of the irrelevance of the States, the fact that they are something left over from the past and are not worthy of concern. The interesting omission from that address- the year is significant, 1957- is section 96 of the Constitution as a tool for achieving Labor's aims. I wish to quote from some later speeches by  Mr Whitlam  which show that he gradually moved to the realisation that section 96 could be an effective tool. In the speech which I have just quoted he canvassed a number of ways in which Labor could tackle constitutional reform either through ordinary amendment or by using different devices such as State governments referring powers to the Commonwealth. Nowhere does he get down to the field which has now been proved to be the really fertile field for Labor effort in this area, namely, the use of the financial power of the Commonwealth. 
In 1 96 1 , about 4 years after the speech which I have quoted, in the Curtin Memorial Lecture which he delivered in Western Australia, the same points were made again. The Federal system was described as a transitional form of government which had been devised for former colonial territories or conquered territories. That is putting a rather contemptuous view of the structure of the Government of this country. I wonder whether  Mr Whitlam  in his travels overseas, in the United States, Canada and Germany, when he had the opportunity to talk to politicians and civil servants of other federations, put to them the view that they are being governed under some transitional form of government. It is a form of government which seems to have survived with considerable success in the United States for several hundred years. 
I would hope you would be precise. At the end of that speech we get a hint, which is missing from the first speech, of how the Commonwealth might use its financial power to achieve the end which  Mr Whitlam  clearly wanted and the end which the Labor Party clearly wanted. He said: 
Through its financial hegemony it can create better conditions in transport, housing, education and health. It can create new industries, new communities. 
We find  Mr Whitlam  moving to the idea that the use of financial power is a way to extend the influence of a Federal Labor government. By 1963, at the Federal ALP Conference, we get a far clearer indication that the penny had dropped and that  Mr Whitiam  had realised that Labor had the use of the finance power to overcome the difficulties which he earlier outlined. He put a paper headed 'Labor Policies and Commonwealth Powers ' to that Conference. In it one finds mention of section 96 on 9 different occasions. Its significance as a means of Labor taking over areas of State jurisdiction is now becoming apparent. We find it mentioned under the headings of Housing, Education, Roads, Rail, Power and Water, Development and Superintendence of the Private Sector. By 1963  Mr Whitlam  is talking in terms of using section 96 and the ability to make conditional grants to the States as a means by which the Labor Party could extend its control once it attained office in Canberra. 
In more recent times- I move to November 1973- one gets a fairly clear indication that  Mr Whitlam  no longer sees the Constitution, which gives a clear delineation of functions between the States and the Commonwealth, as something which will stand in his way. I quote from the  Sir Robert  Garran Memorial Oration which  Mr Whitlam  gave on 12 November 1973. In a reference to the Constitution, after stressing the constitutional difficulties in the way of a Labor Government, he said: 
To balance that seeming pessimism, let me say that a determined Government, a Government clear on what it wants to do for Australia, can find means of living with the Constitution. The Constitution imposes great limitations but the Constitution is not an alibi. 
I conclude this part of my speech be reminding the Senate of the speech made by the Prime Minister when the New Zealand Prime Minister visited Australia, and of the envy which  Mr Whitlam  voiced when he talked of the New Zealand Prime Minister's control of a single House of Parliament which had control over the whole country. That unitary system of government was clearly the goal that  Mr Whitlam  saw for himself and for Australia. I think that sets the context for this Government's use of section 96. Undoubtedly we have a government which is a determined government in that it is determined to achieve its social objectives. It is determined to take over State functions, whatever the Constitution says. It has now realised that it can do so. 
When one looks at what the Government has done specifically to try to amend the Constitution, I think it is clear that it has seriously set out to carry out its platform. Although it has not put forward constitutional amendments which would achieve all the objectives which are set out in the platform, it has certainly put forward a series of amendments which go some of the way and which achieve some of those aims. 
In May 1974 four Constitution amendments were sought. Prior to that there were the prices and incomes referendums. Clearly they were an attempt to extend significantly Commonwealth power. The four referendums that were dealt with in May 1974 each had an element relevant to that same end. There was an attempt to reduce the separate power and authority of the Senate in the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. That Bill has been put before the Parliament again. Clearly this was an attempt to ensure that the Senate did not have as much chance of being a countervailing power to the House of Representatives. If elections for the Senate were to be held simultaneously with elections for the House of Representatives, clearly there would be less likelihood of the Senate being out of phase with the House of Representatives in the sense of who controls the Senate. The Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill was intended to make alterations to the Constitution easier. The present requirement of a majority in four States was reduced to a majority in three States. This was an attempt to further Labor's aim to amend the Constitution readily. The Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) referendum was an attempt by the Commonwealth to control the makeup of State Houses of Parliament. The Constitution Alteration (Local Government 
Bodies) referendum would have given the Commonwealth direct influence over local government. It would have reproduced section 96, which is the subject of the motion, and applied the same set of rules to local government. 
I listened with some interest to  Senator Devitt  's comments early this afternoon when he lauded the efforts of the Commonwealth in respect of local government. I suggest that he examine the history of the use of section 96 by the Commonwealth with respect to the States and apply the same process to a relationship between the Commonwealth and local authorities. If the same procedures were followed and if the same power were available to the Commonwealth it would attempt to use section 96A, the proposal that it put forward last May, to impose rules and to impose its requirements on local government. If that is not so, there is no need for that Constitution amendment because it is totally unnecessary other than for that purpose. The present situation is that the Commonwealth Government has ample power to grant money to the States for the purposes of local government, and the only difference would have been that the Commonwealth would have been able to impose its conditions directly upon local government. That is getting down to the real crux of the difference between the Opposition and the Government. 
I think it is a little strange that it took the ALP as long as it did to get on to the idea that section 96 could be used to solve the real problem that it has, namely, that the Australian people do not want it to change the constitutional structure of Australia. The possibility of using section 96 has been apparent for many years. The High Court of Australia has made it clear on a number of occasions that the ability of the Commonwealth to impose limitations on the States by the use of section 96 is virtually unfettered. I should like to refer briefly to a couple of the cases in which this principle was established. For one thing, they fix a date on which it must have been clear to any Federal government that it had access to this power. For another, they demonstrate the extent of the power which is available to the Commonwealth by using section 96. 
I shall refer to a number of cases which were mentioned by  Sir Robert  Menzies in his book Central Power in the Australian Commonwealth'. He first referred to the case of Victoria v. the Commonwealth. It was reported in 1926, so the date of the case was probably slightly earlier than that. That case involved the Federal Aid Roads Act of 1 926, which gave force to an agreement between the Commonwealth and each of the States. That agreement set out how the States were to go about developing their road systems. What the States did under that agreement was subject to the approval of the Commonwealth. The State of Victoria challenged the validity of that condition and the High Court dismissed the challenge. It really gave it short shrift, notwithstanding the advocacy of  Mr Robert  Menzies, as he then was. The entire judgment of the court, according to  Sir Robert  Menzies, was: 
The Court is of the opinion that the Federal Aid Roads Act No. 46 of 1 926 is a valid enactment. 
It is plainly warranted by the provisions of Section 96 of the Constitution, and not affected by those of Section 99 or any other provision of the Constitution, so that exposition is unnecessary. 
The argument put forward in that case was that the Commonwealth simply did not have the power to impose conditions on the States in that matter. It was argued that it was not really a law relating to financial assistance but a law relating to roadmaking and hence beyond the power of the Commonwealth. That argument was simply rejected by the High Court. Later, and more dramatically, after the Second World War, when the Commonwealth endeavoured to establish that it should retain the uniform taxing powers, there was another case called Victoria v. The Commonwealth, reported in 99 Commonwealth Law Reports in 1957. In this instance the condition imposed was that the States were to receive certain grants provided they did not impose their own taxes. The Chief Justice,  Sir Owen  Dixon, made it completely clear that the Commonwealth has an almost unfettered power to impose conditions. He Stated: 
The validity of the legislation was upheld by this Court as authorised by s. 96. This means that the power conferred by that provision is well exercised although ( I ) the State is bound to apply the money specifically to an object that has been denned, (2) the object is outside the powers of the Commonwealth, (3) the payments are left to the discretion of the Commonwealth Minister, (4) the money is provided as the Commonwealth's contribution to an object for which the State is also to contribute funds. Road-making no doubt may have been conceived as a function of the State so that to provide money for its performance must amount to financial assistance to the State. But only in this way was there  assistance '. 
So the States find themselves in the quite extraordinary position that notwithstanding that the object is outside Commonwealth power completely the Commonwealth can, by making a conditional grant, impose its will upon the States. The clarity of that judgment and the other judgments given in that case are the reason why I am surprised that it took the Prime Minister so long to get on to the real possibilities of section 96. 
I quoted earlier from various papers delivered by  Mr Whitlam  'in which he dealt with the problems of amendment of the Constitution. He totally failed to indicate the possible use of section 96 to achieve power over areas of State function. One finds only as late as 1963 some indication that he sees that as being a real possibility for a Labor government which is being frustrated by the Constitution. 
Let me finish this section of my speech by quoting  Mr Justice  Fullagar, who put the matter in even simpler and clearer terms. As reported at page 656 of the judgment he said:  1 can see no real reason for limiting in any way the nature of the conditions which may be imposed. It may be said that, if a condition calls for State action, the action must be action of which the State is constitutionally capable. But I can see no reason for otherwise limiting the power to appropriate for payment to a State subject to a condition. 
So the position is that since the Second World War we have had in Australia the Commonwealth Government with the preponderance of financial resources and the ability to grant money to the States on whatever terms and conditions it thinks fit. I do not suggest that the Whitlam Government invented section 96 or its use. Indeed, the use of tied grants was common under preceding governments. But the facts are that the present Government has greatly extended the use of the power and has used it as a club instead of an instrument whereby assistance can be given. The comments of State politicians, both Labor and Liberal, make it quite clear that that is not a partisan statement. I was reading earlier today the quite extraordinary opening remarks of  Mr Dunstan  at the Premiers Conference in June 1974. They indicate the extent to which the State governments, of whatever political complexion, have reached the end of their tether with this Government and regard it as being totally unreasonable.  His  words, if a little earthy, at least underline the feeling of frustration and difficulty that the States at present have.  Mr Dunstan  said: 
I was a little late for this morning's meeting because of fog conditions in Canberra. I was circulating above the city for some considerable time. When I came in here and read your speech,  Mr Prime  Minister, frankly I was a little regretful that I missed an opportunity to do to the Commonwealth from a great height what I then felt like doing. 
That is considerably cruder than his Liberal colleagues' complaints at that same meeting. It puts, in terms which I think everybody in Australia would understand, the anger and fury of the State governments at the financial treatment that has been meted out to them by this Government. 

 - Senator McLaren can speak to this motion if he is of the contrary view. The extraordinary fact is that the remarks I have quoted are those of a Premier who must be regarded as being completely in accord with the social aims and objectives of this Government. Indeed, in his speech he made that clear. So it is all the more telling, because he highlights the fact that in attempting to achieve those aims and objectives the Government has ridden roughshod over the States and made their position quite impossible. I understand that I have very little time left before the Senate will adjourn. I merely say at this stage that if I obtain leave to continue my remarks later I propose to deal with the actual figures which have been thrown up in the last 2 years' Budget Papers and which indicate that the use of section 96 has expanded enormously under this Government and has reduced the ability of State governments to carry out in any true fashion their constitutional responsibilities. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government propose to follow the recent suggestion by  Mr Short  of the Federated Ironworkers Association and have talks with union leaders so that the Government can put to the unions  Mr Whitlam  's view that wage increases are the primary cause of inflation? If it does not propose to do that, how does the Government propose to obtain wage restraint from individual unions which are clearly contemptuous of wage restraint and which are not, as  Mr Short  pointed out recently, bound by decisions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on wage issues? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to reports that he visited Perth yesterday to discuss with the Western Australian Government relations between the police and Aborigines at Laverton. Has the Minister agreed to a joint State Government and Australian Government inquiry into this matter? If so, is it to be a public or private inquiry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) In the six month period to 3 1 January 1975 how many advertisements relating to social security matters, which included a photograph or other representation of the Minister for Social Security, have been published by the Department of Social Security. 
In what publications did the advertisements appear. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many requests for extradition have been made by Australia to foreign states with which Australia has extradition treaties since the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966 came into effect. 
To which foreign states were requests made. 
How many persons were returned to Australia as a result of those requests. 
From which countries were they extradited. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many requests for extradition have been made to Australia by Commonwealth countries since the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act 1966 came into effect. 
Which countries made those requests. 
How many persons have been surrendered to the requesting countries as a result of those requests. 
To which countries were those persons surrendered. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many requests for extradition have been made by Australia to Commonwealth countries since the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act 1 966 came into effect. 
To which Commonwealth countries were requests made. 
How many persons were returned to Australia as a result of these requests. 
From which countries were they extradited. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many requests for extradition have been made to Australia by foreign states with which Australia has extradition treaties since the Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966 came into effect. 
Which states made those requests. 
How many persons were surrendered to the requesting states as a result of those requests. 
To which states were those persons extradited. 
Have any requests been received from states with which Australia does not have an extradition treaty. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Since the passing of the Trade Practices Act 1 974 how many advertisements relating to that Act, which included a photograph or other representations of the previous Attorney-General, have been published by the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
In what publications did the advertisement appear. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to the answer he gave to the question asked by  Senator 
Laucke. I took his answer to mean that the Government is aware that the North Vietnamese Army has been shelling and machine-gunning refugee columns and executing prominent citizens. I also took it to mean that his Government does not approve of those actions by the North Vietnamese Army. I ask the Minister to say why, if he does not approve of these atrocities, there have been discrepancies in the cables from Australia to Hanoi and Saigon. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission have a stand-by transmitter in the radio transmitter building in Canberra? Is a stand-by transmitter used to provide a third ABC radio station in Sydney? If it is, could the Canberra stand-by transmitter be used to broadcast a third radio program to Canberra? Additionally, what is the position in the State capitals other than Sydney? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Does the Government propose to set up a Press commission or any form of organisation either exercising supervision or oversight of the Press or producing a government newspaper? If so, what will be the composition and powers of such a body? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDOfficials of the Australian Journalists Association saw me in Sydney last week and told me that it was AJA policy to have a voluntary Australian Press Council established. They sought my advice or assistance as to whether in the event of their being able to persuade the newspaper proprietors that they should join in a voluntary Press Council, the Government would be prepared to subvent the cost of secretarial services of such a Council. I told them that if they submitted the matter to me in writing I would consider it.  Senator Chaney  should know that because newspapers do not come within the ambit of responsibility of the Australian Government, and this is the legal opinion that has been suggested to me, it is just not on that an Australian government itself, without any voluntary co-operation on the part of the industry, would establish a 
Press Council.  Senator Chaney  should know that at the Terrigal conference of my Party the section of my Party's policy dealing with the proposed establishment of an Australian newspaper commission was altered from the proposal to conduct a feasibility study of the establishment of an Australian newspaper commission to one of conducting a feasibility study of whether the Government should establish a newspaper which would be run by a majority of the operatives working for the newspaper. My Department will be looking at the matter to give me advice about how and when such a feasibility study should be conducted. 
I refer the Minister representing the Attorney-General to the statement which appeared in the 'Australian Women's Weekly' on legal aid which said that offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office are opening outside ordinary business hours at times that are most convenient for the local community. Is it a fact that some or all offices are opening outside ordinary hours? Are they staffed outside normal office hours by employees of the Attorney-General's Department or by private practitioners? Are any Attorney-General's employees on overtime if they are so employed? Are any private practitioners so employed remunerated for their work? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government receive any request to provide financial assistance to the promoters of the Sunbury Rock Festival which was held in January 1 975; and, if so, what decision has been made by the Government. 
Has the Government provided financial assistance for any similar festivals either directly or through any organisation funded by the Australian Government. 
I rise to welcome the presentation of this Racial Discrimination Bill to this chamber and to congratulate the Government for having introduced it into the Parliament. In doing so I think I am expressing the general view of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. Certainly I am expressing the view that we adopted with respect to the motion for the second reading of the Bill which we intend to support. If I have any regrets about this matter it is that it is necessary for such a Bill to be introduced into this Parliament. The racial discrimination document which the United Nations produced was executed by the previous Government in 1 966. It is my view that it is a pity that following the execution of that document legislation was not enacted at a State level, where there is less constitutional uncertainty, to deal with the question of racial discrimination. In the event, no action has been taken since 1966. In those circumstances I think it is most welcome that the Government has brought this Bill before the Parliament. 
I also welcome the fact that this Bill has been before the Parliament for a considerable period. This is an extremely delicate area of law or an extremely delicate area in which to legislate. The fact that all of us have had a long time in which to consider this Bill and the fact that the public has had a long time in which to consider it is a very good thing. All of us are aware that a good deal of public debate has been engendered by the introduction of the Bill. I am sure that many honourable senators have received many representations about the Bill and about alterations which might be made to it. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to the very welcome degree of unanimity which exists with respect to the subject matter of the Bill. I refer them to the second reading speech made by  Mr Killen  in the House of Representatives when leading for the Opposition in. that House. He said: 
In other words, 1 am seeking to assert the thesis that it is the view of this entire Parliament that racial discrimination, one of the disfigurements of the 20th century, should be silenced. 
He went on to say: 
But how do we do it? 
The basic difference of opinion which might give rise to argument in this chamber or in the House of Representatives relate to that last sentence that I quoted- 'But how do we do it? ' 
There is some difference of opinion about the machinery that ought to be utilised by society and by government to bring an end to racial discrimination. I think there is nothing improper or disgraceful about having differences of opinion about the machinery, but I stress the unanimity of the Parliament in condemning racial discrimination. It is true that a variety of opinions have been expressed in debate, but I say to all of my colleagues in this chamber that that is not a bad thing. The correspondence we have received over the past few months relating to this Bill would indicate to all of us that there is a wide difference in the opinions that are held in the community, and I think it is not unhealthy that different views have been expressed here in the national forum. The important thing is that there is unanimity among the Parties that this Bill should be given a passage through the Parliament. The differences merely lie in what the machinery ought to be to bring about the desired result. 
I think in another respect the Government deserves commendation. Not only has it introduced the Bill and given all of us an opportunity to study it but it has been prepared to make amendments to the Bill in the light of submissions which have been made. The Bill before us now and the Bill as it went into the House of Representatives is not the same as the Bill that was originally introduced. I think that that is a recognition by the Government of the difficulty and complexity of this field and of the fact that different opinions put forward may have something to offer. In fact, in the House of Representatives some of the criticisms of the Opposition in that place were acknowledged, and some amendments were accepted. 
All of us would have had complaints that this Bill would encourage pimping, and there was the possibility, I think, as the clauses were originally worded, that one could have an anonymous informant and a person could be hauled before the Race Relations Commissioner without knowing who his accuser was. I think the Government sensibly acknowledged that that was something it did not want, and it accepted the amendments. I say to the Minister in charge of the Bill that he ought to give very careful consideration to the amendments which will be put forward by the Opposition in the Committee stage of this Bill, because it is certainly my conviction that the amendments will in fact improve the legislation, would enable it to be introduced far more successfully into the community, and would in the long term aid the objective which I am sure the Government has of reducing racial discrimination in this country. 
I do not wish to analyse, as  Senator Walsh,  who spoke previously did, the speeches of those who have gone before and to criticise them. I accept that there are differences of opinion, and people are entitled to their different opinions, but I do draw the attention of the Senate to 2 speeches that were made in the House of Representatives, one by the honourable member for Robertson,  Mr Cohen,  and one by the member for Bennelong,  Mr Howard.  I think those 2 speeches are a model of what this Parliament could hope for in a debate on a topic of this sort. I think they show a tolerance and an understanding of the difficulties with which we are dealing and that is most commendable. If I could make a speech that caught the spirit of the debate that we are having half as well as those speeches did, I would be well pleased. 
What 1 would like to do in the course of my remarks is indicate initially why I support the concept of the Bill, subject of course to the amendments that we will be moving later. The first point is, of course, that Australia is a multiracial community. It has been so since the first European settlers arrived, and we are stuck with that fact. Since the first settlers arrived this country has been peopled by successive waves of immigrants, largely from Europe but also from many other parts of the world, and now, quite apart from any future immigration policy that we may follow, we have a community which is multi-racial. That is fact No. 1, and that is what we must bear in mind. 
The second important fact is that there is discrimination in this country. I have listened to my fortunate colleagues who have spent time overseas tell us that discrimination in other countries is worse than it is here. Since I do not have the benefit of that experience, I cannot say whether they are right or wrong, but I can say that my own experience tells me that discrimination in this country is at a level which I find totally unacceptable. When I speak of discrimination I simply mean that a large number of people are treated not because of what they are but because of their racial heritage- because their parents were Aboriginal, Greek, or of some other race. In my professional life I came across a consistent series of examples of discrimination on the grounds of race that I found highly objectionable, and on many occasions the law did not provide an adequate remedy. In those circumstances I have no choice but to look for an improvement in the law so that these things can be dealt with. 
I will weary the Senate with just one example which I think initially got me interested in this subject. I was a very young solicitor at the time. A clerk from another office brought an Aboriginal woman to my office and told me he had been told by his principals to get rid of her because they did not care to act for Aborigines. That, I suppose, was their privilege. She had paid money on account of costs, and that money was paid to me. The matter on which she sought advice was an application to have her family of 6 children declared neglected. I made a couple of telephone calls and ascertained that the case seemed rather flimsy. Indeed, the clerk who brought the woman to me told me that he had already taken instructions and he thought she had a very good case. In fact, I fought the easiest case of my life, and the charge that the children be declared neglected was dismissed. 
The effect of the non-defence of that charge would, of course, have been that the children would have been found neglected and would have been committed to institutions. Being an extremely young man at the time, I became very angry about what I regarded as a rank injustice, so I said to the man who had brought the charge, an officer of a government department: 'Why did you bring this charge?' He said: 'Well, we have had a lot of complaints about having too many Aborigines in East Perth, and we are moving them out'. The 6 children would have been institutionalised as part of a program of moving Aborigines out of East Perth. That, to me, is blatant discrimination, and this woman was subjected to it not only by a government department but also by my own profession. I perhaps should add that she subsequently paid the balance of my costs. So there was no great high principle in it as far as I was concerned; I did the job for money. That case demonstrated to me that groups of people in the community are treated abominably simply because they happen to have a dark skin. 
I am afraid that that experience is by no means unique. In the successive years of my practice I found that there were many such examples. Perhaps I should add another point about the example I have given. The officer of the department was surprised to find that a solicitor was involved. He told me that he had brought many such applications, but never had any of the Aborigines concerned been represented. I perhaps offer that in support of my view that the Aboriginal Legal Service is also a very important and positive contribution by this Government. 
I will now briefly refer to the platform of the Liberal Party which I think indicates that I am in the mainstream of Liberal thinking in supporting this Bill. This platform, which was adopted only last year, provides on page 17 that 'the maintenance of individual freedom calls for positive measures by the Government and private organisations to encourage equal opportunity and to prevent discrimination against the individual or minority groups'. So, I am very pleased to be supporting this Bill, which is consistent with the platform of the Party that I represent. 
I do not, however, wish to make too extravagant claims for this Bill. I agree with many honourable senators who have pointed out that to legislate against discrimination is extremely difficult. The proposition I put to the Senate is no higher than this: The Bill that the Government has introduced has a potential for good, a potential for at least moving some of the way towards the Government's objective. 
There has been some opposition to the Bill on broad principle, and this has been reflected in the debate in the terms, I think, that we cannot legislate to change attitudes. I must say that as I have heard that put forward both in this chamber and out of the chamber my mind has gone back to the Family Law Bill which we debated at some length only last year. Honourable senators recall that many people bitterly opposed the changes that were being made to family law in this country on the basis which I accepted, namely, that the state of divorce law would indeed affect the community's attitude to marriage. I accept that argument, and that is why at the time that legislation was before this chamber I supported the proposition of making divorce rather more difficult than the Bill proposed. In just the same way, if we have a legislative framework which declares that racial discrimination is illegal, that legislative framework in itself has some educative effect and it is part of the environment and the context in which people grow up. While I do not think it will change those of us who have passed the great divide of 30 years of age, I think it might succeed in changing the attitude of our children, in the case of some of us here, our grandchildren and subsequent generations. I do think that law has a place in moulding community attitudes and that therefore the declaration that racial discrimination in Australia should be illegal is useful in itself as a long term educative tool. Quite apart from that, of course, the Bill, even if it cannot change attitudes immediately, can prevent overt acts of discrimination which are harmful to individuals. Therefore it deserves to be defended on that basis alone. I am always a little selective in my reading on this matter. That being my view, my eye was caught by an article by Arthur Earl Bonfield who at the time of writing in 1965 was Associate Professor in the Law School at the University of Iowa.  His  article carries the heading 'The Role of Legislation in Eliminating Racial Discrimination'. I shall quote one paragraph from that article because I think it summarises my view and perhaps puts it a little more concisely than I could. He states:   . . the mere existence of the law itself affects prejudice. People usually agree with the law and internalise its values. This is because considerable moral and symbolic weight is added to a principle when it is embedded in legislation. Additionally, most people are conformists, and the law usually represents the prevailing attitudes in the community. The law, embodying as it does the  societally  acceptable norm, constantly holds before people an image of what their feelings should be. Over an appreciable period, this cannot help but influence them in their private attitudes. As a result, While we may not be able to repeal prejudice by law, (it) . . . is an essential part of the enterprise of education which alone can end prejudice. ' 
I respectfully adopt that comment of Professor Bonfield as being an accurate statement and as a ground for giving support to this Bill. 
There has, of course, been some much stronger opposition to the Bill and some of that opposition, I believe, is justified and supports the amendments we have put forward. But some of the opposition is not justified. The sort of justified criticism to which I draw the attention of the Senate is the fear of pimping which I think has already been dealt with by amendment. There has been the fear of restriction on debate, and that is a matter which I think all of us ought to be concerned about. Reference to that has been made in the debate. Of course, at the Committee stage there will be long debate on the fate of clause 28. But I think we must be cautious in restricting debate even when we find the debate odious to us. Some honourable senators opposite might consider that some of the speakers on this side of the House are actuated by ill-will. I will not accept that for a moment. The judgments that people make about motives when somebody is putting forward an argument on a sensitive subject such as this are dangerous. Clause 28, when looked at in that light, represents a dangerous restriction on freedom of speech in Australia. 
Recently I have had my attention drawn to the writings of academics such as Eysenck and Jensen. I find their writings interesting. They deal with the question of inheritability of IQ, the measure of intelligence generally and the whole question of the extent to which one's intelligence is determined by environment as against being determined by inheritance. Their researches go dangerously close to suggesting that perhaps there are basic inherited racial differences which ought to give rise to different policies for dealing with different races. From all that I have read of the history of these gentlemen, I would accept them as being genuine researchers and seekers after truth. At times in universities they have been set upon and stoned and generally abused. That is an illustration of the danger in trying to legislate against the dissemination of ideas, and I think that is effectively what clause 28 does. If a clause like clause 28 was passed into law, it is possible that we would find that people who are genuinely trying to debate perhaps our immigration policy or other matters that they regard as being of importance, or even more abstruse subjects such as the inheritability of intelligence, might be held up by some as having a racist intent and of trying to divide the community when in fact that is not the case. So I regard the criticisms that have been put forward in these other fields as being criticisms to which we ought to pay regard, and I think that we ought to proceed cautiously. Where there is any doubt, I believe that we should remove the clauses and experiment with the legislation and make changes later if changes are found to be needed. 
Some criticisms of the Bill I regard as totally unjustified. There have been criticisms which have been personalised in the shape of  Mr Gassby  and even Miss Morosi. I have received literature with references to the 'Grassby-Morosi Bill' and references to the racial origin of those persons. I put on record in the Senate that criticisms of that sort are utterly repugnant to me. I find them offensive and I pay no note to them. I would say, however, that I have taken the trouble in many of those cases to write what I regard as a reasonable reply in the hope that those people are open to conversion. I think that has been a rather offensive feature of the campaign against the Bill. There have been references to Italians, Spaniards and Filipinos in a way which I think most Australians would cast aside. 
The Opposition amendments which will be dealt with in detail later simply try to preserve the basic structure of the Bill which is put forward by the Government, but to make it something which does put stress on conciliation rather than on legal bludgeons. Many statements have been made by Government supporters and indeed by Government Ministers which indicate that it is the view of the Government that this Bill ought to proceed by way of education, by way of research, by way of conciliation, with law being brought in only as a last resort. I would respectfully say that that is the proper approach because I think the law is a quite imperfect instrument in this field. I have had some experience of matters which have been drawn to the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  over the past year or two in which, in my judgment as a lawyer who has had some practise in this field, it would be difficult to obtain solutions simply by going to the courts because quite often people who are the subject of discrimination are the sort of people who are least able to take advantage of court procedures. Anyone who has represented a person who has imperfect control of the language, limited conceptual understanding and so on, knows that that person is under severe disadvantage under cross-examination and in the general adversary forum that a court provides. To put those people into a legal battle is to do them very little good. 
If our amendments are examined it will be found that we have adopted what has been put forward as the theoretical view of the Government. We have accepted that in all cases the things which are declared illegal ought to be illegal. Indeed, we have added to them by putting some requirements oh unions not to discriminate. What we have said is that a person who believes that he has been offended by somebody who has done something which is illegal under these provisions should not go to court but to the Race Relations Commissioner. That Commissioner then has power to summon the parties to a compulsory conference. We leave the Commissioner with that power. So the situation is that whenever somebody feels aggrieved under the provisions of the Bill, his recourse is to go to the Race Relations Commissioner who can bring the parties together and attempt to conciliate. One would hope that in most cases that would lead to a solution of the problem. The reason that is not unduly optimistic is that there is a sanction on both of the parties to negotiate. The sanction on the offended party is that he does have to face the difficulties of litigation if the conciliation does not succeed. The sanction on the offending party, or the alleged offending party, is that if he does not behave reasonably and there is some case against him, he runs the risk of civil action because our amendments leave preserved the right of civil action. The difference is that we cut the 
Race Relations Commissioner out of the civil proceedings. 
I suggest to the Government that if it wants the Race Relations Commissioner to be accepted as a genuine educator and conciliator, it ought not to permit him to be involved in litigation because again my rather short experience as a lawyer- it is short compared with that of many lawyers in this chamber- has convinced me that when you go to law and you go into court and you have lawyers on each side attitudes harden and very seldom do you get a solution which leaves both sides satisfied. So in saying that going to law ought to be the last resort open to the parties only after conciliation is tried, leaving the conciliator as a conciliator sole and with no enforcement function is, 1 believe, a better and more positive approach to the problem. 
In referring to the provision regarding the dissemination of ideas in clause 28, 1 have referred in part to the changes that we propose with respect to the clauses of the Bill that create criminal offences, but I think that the change that we propose with respect to incitement is logical, because we say that that should rank on the same basis as the other civil matters that are dealt with in Part II. 
In my view, the important thing is that the people of Australia should see that a Bill comes out of this Parliament that has the unanimous support of the Parliament, because I think that that in itself will be a big propaganda victoryand I use the word 'propaganda' in a nonoffensive sense, I hope- for those people who believe that racial discrimination should be destroyed in Australia. If those people who are actively discriminating on the ground of race see that the whole of the Parliament is united in this declaration that racial discrimination should be unlawful, I believe some will lose heart at least to some extent and cease the sort of campaign that I think has been offensive to most of us. I conclude by again commending the general objectives of the Bill and by commending the Government for introducing it and for showing flexibility. I ask the Government to show the same flexibility in Committee in dealing with our amendments, and I suggest that a Bill approved unanimously, even if not as strong as the Government would like now, would be a better start than one based on a division within this Parliament. 
I refer the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation to the speech of the Prime Minister which is reported on page 214 of the Australian Government Weekly Digest where the Prime Minister said that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would be providing insurance cover that cannot be obtained from other companies, either because they are not interested or because it is not sufficiently profitable. I ask the Minister whether he can state precisely, without undue rhetoric or excitement, what are the areas in which existing companies are not interested but which are profitable as against those areas which are not profitable and will require the Government to meet losses?  
I present the following petition from 1523 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Add to the Taxpayers burden. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Increase Bureaucracy at the time when Government spending should be curtailed. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has seen reports that China has publicly affirmed support for armed communist movements working to overthrow the non-communist governments in Indonesia, Burma, Malaysia and Singapore. Has he seen reports that the Indonesian Foreign Minister has publicly objected to China's action? Does the Government accept the accuracy of the report? If it does, what is the Government's attitude to this action by China, which is interference in the domestic affairs of other countries? What action has the Government taken, or does it propose to take, with respect to China's action? 
I rise to support the Opposition amendment and the remarks made by  Senator Greenwood.  I find it a little puzzling that what is set out in clause 29 is a criminal offence when the other matter to which it relates are all dealt with as civil matters. I find that particularly curious in the light of some of the comments of" the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Enderby,  in a speech reported in the 'Australian Government Weekly Digest', Volume 1, Number 5. At page 133, and I agree with this comment, he said: 
I also mention that the remedies provided under our legislation are civil remedies and not criminal remedies. We consider that to introduce the criminal law into this area would be wrong because it would only serve to exacerbate tensions that underlie race relations. 
I find it a little curious that this matter of incitement is dealt with in the way it is. Very careful consideration has been given by the Opposition Parties to this aspect of the Bill. I think it would be fair to say that we are at one with the comments of the Attorney-General that the introduction of the criminal law would bring a bludgeon into an area where a rather softer touch is required. 
The other thing I find a little strange is that there has been some compromise by the Government. It was expressed as a compromise in the Committee debate in the Lower House. The Government amended the clause and removed from it what was originally sub-clause (b), which made it an offence to assist or promote, whether by financial assistance or otherwise, the doing of such an act or the commission of such an offence. The Committee will notice that our amendment picks up the 2-headed character of the original clause 31,1 think it was, and retains the 2 classificationsthe incitement or the assisting or promoting- and, I think far more consistently than what is in the Bill at present, fits this aiding and abetting clause in with the clauses to which it relates. I am a little curious as to why the Government adopted the stance it has adopted. I would have hoped that rather than adopt the compromise it has to date it would revert more to the original wording and have the 2 heads to the clause to bring it back into the civil arena. 
I refer to the question I  asked the Minister for Foreign Affairsyesterday about the reports of support by China for national communist parties aiming to overthrow the governments of Burma, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. When was the Minister first aware of these reports? Did he first learn of the reports from newspapers or from his Department? Has he yet completed his check of the reports? Can he advise the Senate of the Government's attitude to China's action? What action will be taken by the Government? 
I have listened very carefully to  Senator Wright's  comments on this clause and I accept the reading of the clause as he has given it, that is, that the amendment as carried in the House of Representatives would permit a second period of cohabitation subsequent to the commencement of proceedings. Between the commencement of proceedings and the hearing one could have a second period of cohabitation and still the ground for divorce would exist. That is a point which, I confess, I had not considered. I am not embarrassed by  Senator Wright's  strictures on the Committee because I accept the interjection made by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  that perhaps we all make mistakes, or something to that effect. No Bill which leaves this Parliament is perfect, nor has every point of interpretation been considered. The question which really arises for the consideration of this Committee is whether as a matter of policy it is a bad thing for the situation which  Senator Wright  outlined to be permitted under the law. That is the point which has exercised my mind during this debate. It has taken  Senator Wright  a number of attempts to get his point understood by members of the Committee. 
My final view on the matter- perhaps if there is further argument it may be my penultimate view- is that there is no reason why the amendment carried by the House of Representatives should not be accepted. My reason for this view simply is that if the parties continue cohabitation up to the time of hearing- a somewhat odd possibility but one which I accept could occurand if that situation were known to the court, under clause 48 (3) the decree of dissution would not be made. 
It is no good enator Wright making noises which suggestat the court will be misled because I am afraidhere is no law we can make which will guarantee that the court will not be misled or that falseevidence will not be put before it.  Senator Wright  mentioned in his first address the position a party to the marriage who has been put out,abused or treated shamefully by this procedure, seems to me that if cohabitation was resumed between the commencement of proceedings andthe hearing of the petition and if one party- letus say the innocent wife- has been abused by the husband's resumption of cohabitation,his leaving her again and carrying on with proceedings, if she is of a mind to withstand the divorce she is in a position to argue with greater force than she would otherwise be able to that shedeserves the protection of sub-clause (3) of clause 48. 
When we look at the position other parties in real terms there is no problem forpersons caused by the amendment which was carried by the House of Representatives. I do not agree with the original decision of the Senate on precise grounds and some membersof the Committee will recall that I believed thata longer period of separation was desirable.However, I accept completely the principle ofclause 50, that is, that one ought not to discourage attempts at reconciliation. Therefore the provisions of clause 50 are unexceptionable. With respect to the difficulty and danger pointed out by  Senator Wright,  I believe it is a theoretical difficulty. I do not believe that in practical terns it will be significant and, as a matter of policy, it does not offend me that, the 12 month period having started, there might be somef inal attempt to bring the parties together. Since I am not offended by this policy, I am disposed in the absence of being convinced bysubsequent argument to support the House ofRepresenatives amendment. 
I also would like to indicate that I support the Opposition's amendment rather than the compromise. I agree that it is a compromise that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  put forward. I support the Opposition's amendment on the basis that I think it represents a counsel of prudence when we are moving into fresh ground as far as most of Australia is concerned, excepting South Australia. I think it is undesirable that the proof required should be as light as is required in the Bill at the moment. I sympathise with the Minister's comments because I think prosecutions in this area are going to be difficult if our formula is adopted. The difficulty I have with the compromise suggested by the Government is that I think even there you could get people with a mixture of motives. Forgetting the difficulty of proof, there could be people who have a series of reasons for not wishing to let premises to a particular person. 
They may have a quite genuine economic reason such as something to do with the person's individual credit rating or with that individual 's record in a prior letting. Perhaps the person might also take a view based on racial discrimination. It might be that the racial discrimination is a quite substantial element but not necessarily the dominant element. In South Australia when legislation of a similar sort was introduced the South Australian Government was even more cautious. I refer to the South Australian Prohibition of Discrimination Act which put an extremely heavy onus on the complainant. I understand that that Act required a complainant to show that the discrimination occurred by reason only of race, country of origin or colour of the skin. To require proof that the discrimination occurred as a result of those reasons only is to cast a very heavy onus indeed on any complainant. 
I was interested to read a paper on this Act which was presented at the Centre for Research into Aboriginal Affairs at Monash University. A seminar was held there from 12 to 16 July last year and Andrew Collett, Executive Secretary of the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement, presented a paper in which he referred to a number of cases of complaints brought under the South Australian Act. It is interesting to note that in what he referred to as the Southern Cross Hotel case, a case of Fingleton v. Max Flannagan and others, the magistrate said, in commenting on the difficulty of the South Australian provision: 
This state of mind is exlusory in the sense that another, contemporaneously held, competing reason for the refusal precludes a conviction. This is so even if the objectionable reason is dominant. 
The magistrate, in dealing with that problem, took the concept of dominance as being something worthy of consideration. Although that passage was not known to me at the time this amendment was formulated I think it is as satisfactory a solution as we are likely to get at this stage, anyway. I would add that review of the operation of the clause in due course may show that some change is warranted. I think it is reasonable as a starting point. 
If that is considered a wishy-washy point to make, I would refer to the sort of statistics quoted by  Senator Rae  in the second reading debate and to the statistics of the English Race Relations Commission which indicate that in that country, at least, a large number of cases are brought which are found not to be based on racial discrimination. As  Senator Rae  pointed out to the Senate, only in one area was there a percentage even as high as 30 per cent. The point to be remembered is that even though our amendments propose to limit access to the courts in terms of requiring conciliation first, in no case will it be impossible for a complainant to get a case before the court because if he is not satisfied by conciliation he can always commence proceedings. I think the likelihood is that there will be quite a substantial number of cases brought which are not well founded. I think it would be an unfortunate commencement to this area of law in Australia if defendants were put in an unduly onerous position. Hence I would counsel caution and urge the Committee to support the Opposition's amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 19 agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
The functions of the Commissioner are- 
to inquire into alleged infringements of Part II, and endeavour to effect a settlement of the matters alleged to constitute those infringements, in accordance with section 2 1 ; 
where the Commissioner is unable so to effect a settlement of a matter, to institute a proceeding in a court in accordance with sub-section 25 (1) in relation to the matter; 
-In my view the sub-clause ought to be deleted, notwithstanding that  Senator James  McClelland,  Senator Greenwood  or even I might be the Commissioner. I do not believe that the Opposition's amendment is based on any person who might be appointed to that office. I would say, however, that perhaps the difficulties that will be faced by the Commissioner may be exacerbated if a person who is well known as a politician is appointed to a post which is very sensitive. I make that comment in passing and not because of any particular influence such a possibility may have on the Opposition or on me with respect to this sub-clause. 
I think it is the clear view of the Opposition that it is quite undesirable to combine the bludgeon of legal proceedings with the conciliation function. If in the long term it is found that to ensure the more consistent application of the Act some official body is required to provide assistance for potential plaintiffs, I would hope that the Opposition's attitude might well be to accept that proposition, but to require that the litigating functions be vested in some person other than the conciliator. There is already a two-headed situation in the Bill. We have the Race Relations Commissioner who has certain functions and then later in the Bill there is provision for a Commissioner for Community Relations. It may well be that in the course of time there will be some exchange of function between those people and perhaps one of them might be given some active role in the conduct of litigation. I believe that with the extensive provisions that are available in the community for legal aid it will not be difficult when conciliation breaks down for an aggrieved party to be directed to another community agency which will be able to provide advice and assistance. I do not believe plaintiffs will be left unassisted when conciliation is tried and fails. 
I think that for the good of this legislation and for the good of the Commissioner it is very important that this Opposition amendment be carried and that the Commissioner's role be very clearly seen as one where he tries to bring people together, tries to promote understanding  and where he develops, conducts and fosters research and so on, as provided in the sub-clause. Again, I think there is force in the comment of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  that overseas experience has shown that some assistance is required. I do not rule out the possibility that that may be found to be the case here. I think for the moment the legal aid agencies can fill that role and that we would be better to proceed in the way the Opposition has suggested. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 2 1 agreed to. 
Clause 22 agreed to. 
Clause 23 (Taking of evidence by prescribed authority). 
As I understand the amendment to clause 26, the proposed deletion of sub-clause (2) is simply consequential upon the changes which have already been agreed to by the Committee. The position is that the Commissioner is no longer a party to any legal action. Hence, damages which might be awarded in accordance with clause 26 (1) would simply be payable to the plaintiff in the normal course. It seems to the Opposition that clause 26 (2) is quite unnecessary, in the light of the new form of clause 25. 
There is a point with which I thought  Senator James  McClelland might deal. It is a point which perhaps relates to an amendment which has been successfully put by the Opposition. I understand that clause 25, as it now stands, simply permits a person aggrieved by an act to institute proceedings. The sorts of acts which give rise to an institution of proceedings are those acts which are prohibited under Part II. When proceedings of that type are brought, under clause 26 the court may grant all or any of the remedies therein specified. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  and to oppose the clause. I do so because I think this is an area of difficulty and I would like to add to the explanation which has been given by  Senator Greenwood,  even at the risk of repetition. I hope that it is accepted by the Committee that the Opposition is opposed to the concept of what is forbidden in clause 28. We are opposed to the publishing of written material which preaches superiority of persons of a particular race and so on and which encourages hatred of people of a particular race. The difficulty which I have with the clause is, notwithstanding the fact that it requires proof of intent to promote hostility, ill-will and so on, that the judgment of a man's intent is something which has to be made on external factors. 
An examination of the second reading debate in the Senate reveals the difficulty which can arise in trying to j udge a man 's intent in this field. The speeches of  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Laucke,  for example, support the proposition that no man who advances an argument which suggests there are racial differences can be actuated by other than ill will. There are passages in those speeches which to me indicate that any proposition putting forward a racial differentiation cannot be based on fact and hence must be activated by malice. I refer the Committee to a passage in  Senator Gietzelt  's speech, appearing at page 1529 of Hansard: 
Any doctrine of superiority based on racial differentiation is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust, dangerous and without any justification. 
The fear that I have is that if one puts up any proposition relating to the question of possible differences between races one is going to find necessarily that the person is actuated by some bad motive because what he is doing is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust, dangerous and without any justification. Later on in his speech  Senator Gietzelt  said: 
No longer will it be possible for misguided racially biased information to be circulated without the threat of sanction. 
I am not speaking here about the sort of thing that was adverted to by  Senator Coleman  in her speech or by  Senator Gietzelt  in his speech. I am referring again to the matters I raised in my speech during the second reading debate. It appears to me that there is a genuine scientific inquiry arising out of a study of genetics and so on which may at times give rise to distasteful conclusions or distasteful suggestions but which I think should certainly not be suppressed under any circumstances. As I mentioned in my speech, the people who have put forward these propositions have at times been subjected to pretty unruly treatment which indicated that university audiences did not believe them to be conducting their inquiries scientifically but that they were prejudiced.  Senator Laucke  drew attention in his speech- it is recorded at page 1537 of Hansardto the dangers of scientific racism. He said:   . . I should like to draw attention to the far more dangerous form of racism which is prompted today in the name of scientific progress. So-called 'scientific racism' is founded upon and finds its justification in evolution and polygenesis. The facts are that the world is one race but the modern attitude of the so-called intelligentsia in many instances is leading to the promotion of the idea that all animosities between people are genetically based. 
I do not have before me any passages from the works of Messrs Jensen and Eysenck to quote but I would like to refer briefly to a review of a couple of their books which appeared in the Economist' of 8 December 1973. There is reference to an essay entitled 'Can we and should we measure race differences?' The 'Economist ' went on to say: 
That, after all, is where Professor Jensen got himself into political hot water, by arguing both that we can and that we should. Professor Herrnstein of Harvard, while believing that the evidence on differences between white and negro North Americans, which under Jensen's microscope display an average gap of about 1 5 IQ points, is not conclusive, is absolutely Jensenist in inheritance. He upholds the contention that 80 per cent of the variance in human intelligence is genetically determined. 
I do not raise these matters because I wish to open up fields which perhaps some honourable senators find objectionable. The point I am trying to make to the Committee is simply that what to one man might be a genuine inquiry, a matter for intellectual study and perhaps even for publication, might be to another man dreadfully racist and a blot on the community. I believe there are real difficulties in imposing the criminal law in this field. Quite apart from that, of course, is the whole question of the extent to which one can safely, in a country which has the tradition of our own, try to suppress any form of discussion which is not directly related to incitement to crime or something of that sort. The whole tradition of freedom of speech that we have means, I think, that at times we have to live a little dangerously. I believe that the Australian community is capable of discriminating between rubbish and what is genuine and that the sorts of publications and activities which were complained of in the second reading debate do not require this very extreme criminal sanction but, given the rest of the Bill, they will wither away because the community will learn to reject those things universally as against almost universally at present. So I would ask the Committee to support the deletion of clause 28. The position in Australia is nowhere near so serious in this field that we should risk the possibility of a real incursion into freedom of speech. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Has the Government been requested to provide funds to subsidise rock music festivals; if so, what decision has been made by the Government. 
-Did the Minister for the Media have any knowledge of matters raised by  Senator Young  in his question today prior to the publication of the article in the 'Age' newspaper yesterday? If he did have prior knowledge, when did he first hear of these facts and how did he learn of them? Can the Minister confirm or deny the allegation that  Mr Stacey  has been promoting  Mr Saffron  as an investor in films, and that  Mr Saffron  was named in a Commonwealth Police report as a prominent criminal whose operations are allegedly connected with vice and gambling? Is it true that  Mr Saffron's  offer to invest $25,000 was rejected by the Australian Film Development Corporation over a year ago? If so, on what basis was the offer to invest rejected? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Legal Practitioners Ordinance (No. 2) 1975, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 9 of 1 975 and made under the Seat of Government ( Administration) Act 1 9 1 0- 1 973, be disallowed. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who I assume, like  Senator Douglas  McClelland, is aware that there is to be a by-election in Bass in Tasmania. I ask: Will the Government be trying to buy votes by suddenly offering support and assistance to meet the problems of Bass after  Vh  years of neglect? Will the Minister seek the resignation of all other Tasmanian Labor members in the House of Representatives to ensure that the island as a whole receives the benefits of the Government's largesse? 
In view of the response of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood,  I ask him why he will not state whom the Government authorised to negotiate the $4,000m loan which the Minister for Minerals and Energy had authority to raise. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What are the names of (a) the metropolitan daily papers in each State and Territory; (b) the major provincial papers in each State and Territory; (c) the ethnic papers; (d ) the weekend press; and the trade union press, in which the advertisement which included a photograph or other representation of the previous Attorney-General appeared, which was referred to in the answer to Senate Question No. 445. 
On how many occasions did the advertisement appear in each such publication and the  Bulletin,  and on what dates. 
What was the cost of the advertisements in each case. 

 -Mr President, the last submission on the point of order makes it quite clear that the Government is trying to intimidate the witness into claiming the privilege he has been instructed to claim. 
I am addressing myself to the point of order to which the last senators to speak have been addressing themselves. The point is that the last  speaker  made it quite clear that he is drawing the attention of this witness to the fact that if there is relevance he should be claiming privilege. I think this demonstrates the way the Government is behaving today. 
-While that is going on, I raise a point of order. To the last 2 questions, answers have been proffered by honourable senators opposite. I regard that as totally out of order and I think,  Mr President,  that you should uphold the dignity of these proceedings and prevent Government senators from providing answers and generally trying to turn this into a farce. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, the answer is no. 

 Mr Karidis, A few times. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I did not keep a count. A few times- two or three. I cannot remember. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I think I stated in my statement previously that only  Mr Khemlani  knows the source. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I will ask your permission to refer to my counsel. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I do not know about that at all. I cannot answer questions like this because that is not my business. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, no. 

 Mr Karidis, Yes, it is. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, could this question be repeated, please? 

 Mr Karidis, Yes. 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs undertake to make a ministerial statement to the Senate before he leaves for overseas at the end of the week upon the following matters: Firstly, the situation in Bangladesh; secondly, the situation in Portuguese Timor; thirdly, the situation in the Republic of India; fourthly, the situation in Bougainville; fifthly, the results of the Law of the Sea conference in Caracas; and finally, the Helsinki treaty? In other words, will he make a comprehensive statement to the Senate on foreign affairs? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the problem of maintaining the container shipping link between Fremantle and the eastern States ports. I ask the Minister: What annual tonnages of freight are at present carried by rail and sea respectively between the eastern States ports and Fremantle? What is the present annual capacity of the east-west railway without its being upgraded? What is the general condition and reliability of the railway line, bearing in mind that it has recently been cut by flood waters and there have been some maintenance problems? 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement in connection with the voting on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the business of the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer him to his reply last Thursday to a question by  Senator Davidson  in which he referred to the Government's immigration policy and said: 
No distinction is made on the basis of origin, colour, race or creed in respect of the skilled people that the country is still seeking. 
Is it not a fact that a distinction has been drawn by the Government in the case of certain refugees from South Vietnam who have been requested by the Government to give a written pledge or undertaking not to take pan in political activity in Australia? Is not such a requirement a distinction based on either race or creed? Does the Minister agree that this requirement is a dangerous innovation which infringes the rights of the people concerned and the political freedom of all Australians? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. It is asked in the light of your comment,  Mr President,  at the opening of the Senate this morning, to the effect that honourable senators should consider whether they should present petitions urging the defeat of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill, and in the light of the fact that petitions have recently been received urging the Senate's approval of such a Bill. I ask the Minister whether the Government, in fact, has accepted the rejection of the Bill by the Senate or whether it proposes to reintroduce the Bill at a later time. 
I wish to make only a brief contribution to this debate.  Senator Greenwood  gave me very generous mention in his remarks on the various Bills relating to Papua New Guinea that are before the Senate. It is because of my very brief contact with the Territory, a period of some 2 years in the mid-1960s, that I wish to make at least some expression of goodwill to Papua New Guinea as it moves into independence. I agree that there are many issues about what has been done in the past and what might have to be done in the future which could be debated in this Parliament but it seems to me that this is not a particularly appropriate time to enter into any debate which might cast doubts on the job which has been done already. For better or worse New Guinea is what it has been made by us, by geography and by its people and there is nothing we can do now to change the situation. I am sure that all honourable senators would be of one mind in hoping that our colonial experiment has been a successful one. 
The point I wish to make to the Senate is that it should not be forgotten that Australia's colonial history involved a very great contribution by a lot of Australians. The thing which probably impressed me most in the period I was there was the personal contribution made by many individuals, some in senior positions and some in relatively low positions. The dedication and intelligence of a great number of the people I saw living in New Guinea, people who had been there for many years and many of whom have stayed there through to independence, far exceeded my expectations. I went there at a stage when youth tends to make one extremely critical of the job other people are doing. Although there were Australian public servants who fell below the standard of conduct we might have hoped for, in the main I found there a level of dedication far beyond my expectations. I would like to pay tribute to the Australians who made possible the colonial administration of New Guinea and who I think- or I hope- have set New Guinea off to a reasonable start as an independent country. 
The disputes which might exist currently about such things as the generosity of the Australian Government in its grants henceforth are very subjective questions which we could debate at great length. I am inclined to think that any absence of generosity which might have been complained about has its positive side in that the very real difficulties which New Guineans are going to have in living within their economic means will only be exacerbated if we are too generous in the future. At the same time I hope we will continue to support the country for which we have been responsible for so many years. I hope all honourable senators join with me in expressing gratitude to the Australians who left the more comfortable life in Australia, over a long period of years, worked in New Guinea, often under very difficult circumstances, and enabled governments here in Canberra to make decisions and see them put into operation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. I ask: Is it a fact that most of the soils in Western Australia have insufficient natural phosphorus for satisfactory plant growth and animal nutrition? Can the Minister inform the Senate what sources of phosphorus, other than superphosphate, are available to Western Australian farmers and, in particular, what alternatives are available at reasonable prices? If no reasonable alternatives are available, what action is being taken to study the problem and to alleviate the rapid deterioration in both stock and pastures that will follow the decreasing use of superphosphate resulting from the rapid increase in price and the removal of the subsidy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the Minister's reply to my question yesterday in which he said he was not in a position to give a technical answer on the work which may be being done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on alternatives to superphosphate. In the light of the admitted need for some phosphorus supplement in many farming areas and the enormous increase in the price of superphosphate, can the Minister give a non-technical answer to the questions: Is the CSIRO in fact doing work in this field? Has the Government initiated or encouraged any research by any body- the CSIRO or anybody else- or any action by the States either to devise substitutes for superphosphate or to enable a more efficient assessment to be made of superphosphate requirements and the more efficient utilisation of superphosphate by farmers? 
I rise conscious of the fact that some 50 or more speakers have spoken already on the Budget debate and it is indeed hard for the Senate to maintain any sense of sparkle while 50 of its number deliver themselves of their wisdom on the economic management of the country. For all that, I welcome the opportunity to take part in what is a very important debate. If there is one thing in Australia that is of general interest at the moment it is the state of the economy and I think the great and besetting interest in politics which we see in Australia at the moment is a function of the uncertainty that people feel in the economic sphere. 1 suppose that every Budget has to be looked at in its economic context, and the economic context of this Budget is very clear. It is a context of very high inflation, a rate at which this Government ought to be, and I suspect is, ashamed, and it is in the context of a level of unemployment of which this Government is, I am sure, ashamed. When one looks at those 2 factorsthe factors of inflation and unemployment -one can see that this Budget is critically important to all Australians. 
The damaging effects of inflation are now acknowledged even by this Government. I think it is generally conceded that those who tried to put together some assets, to have some savings, have been severely damaged. People who might wish to own their home have been severely damaged, and we find that  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, even says that at the present rate of inflation you cannot plan social welfare. So we are in a situation where all sorts of people are under stress and are being damaged by the fact that our currency is simply losing its value. 
Unemployment is something of which this Government ought to be aware because so many of its representatives have come from the union movement, and the Government ought to know that to the individual unemployed person there is a loss of dignity, to the unemployed person's dependants there is a loss of dignity, and there is often real physical hardship. These are things which we in Opposition are entitled to be angry about, the people of Australia are entitled to be angry about, and honourable senators opposite, the representatives and supporters of a Labor government, ought to be ashamed about. I suppose one of the features of the economic debate in Australia for some time now has been the whinging attitude of Government supporters that of course it is not their fault. It is all the fault of external circumstances. Australia is in exactly the same condition as are comparable countries. 
I would like very briefly to refer to some of the things this Government has done which in my view,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  have substantially contributed to the unfortunate situation that we are in at the moment. I would like to suggest that if you look at just 3 areas most people who are not forced to support this Government would agree that things could have been much better. The areas I would ask honourable senators to consider are the areas of wages policy, of minerals policy and of Government expenditure and the limits on Government expenditure. 
Early in the life of this Government which now admits, of course, that excessive wage increases are at the heart of its economic problems and at the heart of the inflationary problem, we had the very strong assertion that there should be an increase in the share of the national economic cake being taken home by wage earners. In the field of the Public Service where, of course, the Government has the greatest influence there was the proud adoption of the pacesetter principle, principally by  Mr Cameron  but he, of course, was merely acting as a spokesman for the Government. I believe a great deal of the runaway wage inflation we have seen in Australia over the last few years can be attributed to the quite unreal wage expectations which this Government fostered early in its life and particularly through the pacesetter principle. 
I think the labourer is worthy of his hire, but like your Treasurer now, I believe that when the labourer gets more than he is producing then, in fact, we are headed for economic disaster. A little later in my speech, for the benefit of Labor members opposite, I intend to cite with very great approval some of the more recent statements of the Treasurer which indicate a very great conversion to a point of view that I and many other Liberals have been putting forward for some time. I will refer to my maiden speech last year- I am sure no one else has ever bothered to do the same since it was made- and honourable senators will find a surprising parallel between what I said then and what  Mr Hayden  is saying today. If  Mr Hayden  takes a year to catch up with me, one who is unlettered in economics, then God help the country. In the field of wages, I say that the Government bears a large share of the blame. It established the pacesetter principle of 'Let us go; let us all get more' and wages outstripped the ability of the economy to pay. The Government concedes that, so Labor members opposite should not interject when I merely underline it now. 
In the field of mineral development, we in Western Australia saw for many years the benefits of an expanding mineral production. Australia as a country is, of course, resource rich and it is a country in which the problems of development are not so much the problems of the Government having to do too much but the problems of ensuring that the Government does not interfere too much. When one thinks of the possible developments that were on foot in 1972 in Australia and what has happened to them, then I think one can again sheet home to this Government a lot of the blame for the flaccid economy that exists in this country today. Look at the oil and gas prospects off the North-West Cape or north-west shelf of Western Australia. That was a great prospect for the prosperity of the whole of Australia. It was a marvellous opportunity to increase our independence in the field of energy and to lift the standard of living and hence the standard of welfare of all Australians. That project is moribund. Its capital costs are increasing by leaps and bounds, and nothing is happening. I suppose I am a little more conscious of this than most because one member of my family was a geologist working on that field but he has been sent to America because the company said to him: 'We have no use for you here, boy'. If the damage that is done to the country is not underlined when the young people who are involved in its development are forced to go overseas, then nothing will underline it. 
I point to the possibilities we had for uranium development in the Northern Territorydevelopments that by now could have been brought to fruition. Where are they? They are still locked up, and this Government, despite its brave words and the plans and half-starts that it has announced, has done nothing. Those developments by themselves would have put a completely different complexion on the Australian economy today. 
I do not believe that conservation should be ignored. I point to the possible nickel developments in Western Australia which, again, are lying locked under the ground because inflation and the whole attitude of this Government have made development uncertain and unlikely to occur. So, in that field I would suggest to honourable senators opposite that the productive ability of the Australian economy has in fact been cut back. Whereas Labor came so proudly into government with these great social experiments promised to us all, it came on the basis that those experiments would be paid for by increasing productivity. Had it allowed productivity to increase perhaps it could have done it. As it is, Labor has sought to have the gravy without the meat that produces the juice for the gravy. 
Let me look at the field of excessive Government expenditure. We are again dealing here with an area in which the Government itself concedes that a balance between Government expenditure and private expenditure must be retained. Quite clearly, the reckless attitude of this Government towards increasing Government expenditure over the last 3 years has been a substantial contributing factor to the mess we are in today. So I point to these 3 things, not because 
I suggest they tell the whole story, but because I think they are clear examples of areas in which alternative policies were available, in which alternative policies were advocated by the Opposition, and in which the Government ploughed ahead and made disastrous mistakes for Australia. So I am contemptuous of efforts simply to say that it is not Labor's fault. I believe it is a cowardly bleat. I welcome the greater courage which is being shown by some members of the Government now in facing up to economic reality, and in particular to the sort of efforts which are being made by  Senator James  McClelland to introduce some rational views into the area of wages. If those men are not supported by their own Party- I sometimes wonder whether they will be- then of course this Government will become an even more hopeless proposition than it has been to date. 
I do think there is a beginning of rationality in this Government. I do not wish to praise it too much, but I do think some of the things that we, as Liberals, have been saying for some time have at last come home. Our quarrel with this Budget, of course, is that this Government has not gone far enough along the road to ensure that it will succeed in reversing the position. I rather see it as a man who has decided to jump across a chasm, runs forward, takes a flying leap and then half way across changes his mind and says: 'No, it is too far, I should go back'. I am afraid that that is what has happened to this Government. It has stopped; it is in mid-air, and I suspect it is about to plummet out of sight into the chasm. I do not think there will be many mourners at the funeral. The Budget Speech is interesting for a number of reasons, one of which is that it contains a statement that confidence in the private sector is essential. This is the first of the passages that I would like to quote from the Treasurer's Speech. He said: 
This Government is committed to the present 'mixed economy' framework. We want to strengthen that framework. To reduce unemployment lastingly, recovery in the private sector is essential. 
I am quoting the Treasurer's words. He says: Recovery in the private sector is essential'. A little later in the Speech, of course, he talks about the dramatic need for confidence. He says that there will be recovery in the private sector only if there is confidence in the private sector. 
-That is the Treasurer. We get this proposition being put forward by the Government and I am very glad that it has put it forward. It is the private sector which needs to be strengthened if unemployment is to be beaten and if the economy is to be put in better shape. The private sector requires a return of confidence. There, I suppose, lies one of the tragedies of the story because in the  Age  of last Tuesday- a paper which is often cited with approval in this chamber by honourable senators opposite- we find the results of a poll. Only a quarter of the Australian electorate thinks the Hayden Budget will have a favourable effect on the nation as a whole. The article states: 
The latest Age poll has found that 43 per cent of voters believe that when the provisions of the Budget are put into effect, the country will be worse off. Twenty-eight per cent think the Budget will not significantly alter the country's economic condition. 
So we find that some 71 per cent of the population believes that this is at best a neutral Budget and it is more likely a damaging Budget. If that is the view which is held in the community, then how in the world does the Government expect to find a return of private confidence? It seems to me to be quite impossible. It is just not going to happen. That is one of the reasons why I have very serious reservations about the Budget and why I wonder whether for Australia 's sake this Budget ought to be allowed to be put into operation. We have a situation where the Government acknowledges that tax is too high. The public sector has taken too much. Yet we find, when we look at the pay-as-you-earn statistics which have been referred to on a number of occasions in this debate, that notwithstanding the taxation changes which have been made, in fact pay-as-you-earn taxation will rise by, I think, $2,700m. This is in an economy where the Government is trying to restore confidence to the private sector. Quite honestly, I cannot see how rational men can arrive at that sort of reasoning in company with that sort of arithmetic. 
I say, therefore, that the rather more daring alternative Budget in which the proposals for greater cuts were put forward by  Mr Fraser,  represents a minimum approach to this problem. It represents not an extreme approach but a minimum approach to doing what the Government says needs to be done, namely, restoring private confidence. There is no basis for confidence under this Government. We know that it has changed direction too often. It has changed course; it has changed Treasurers; it has done things which I believe destroy the ability of the community to respond with confidence in it. Although of course a little heat develops in these debates, I say that with some sorrow because I think Australia deserves better than to be governed by a Government in which its people have no confidence. 
I remember that when I applied for endorsement with the Liberal Party I listed one of my interests as mining. That is an interest which seems to have become rather submerged here. But I thought that in a sense that interest showed itself when I managed to go through the Budget and extract some gold out of the dross. It shows really what is my interest in mining- simply the fact that you go through an awful lot of rubbish and every now and then come across something valuable. I would like to cite some of these things which are valuable purely because I think it is important that, since the attitude of the community is so important in the economic recovery of Australia, we should make it clear where we as an Opposition do not differ from the Government. It is not our job to confuse the public mind. If the Government is putting a correct proposition which we would have to support if we were in Government our job is to support it, even though we may be in Opposition. I read from the Budget Speech where the Treasurer stated: 
Some sacrifice and patient restraint is called for from all of us in our demands for more resources, whether it is additional public services that are wanted or higher personal incomes. 
That is a statement from which I do not believe any government of ours could escape, any more than the Government which we have at present can escape. We find that the Treasurer goes on to say: 
We expect that as the expansion of public sector activity is restrained, the opportunities for private sector expansion will improve, though full responses to greater room for growth may take time to develop. 
That statement again is valuable because it contains the realisation that it is the restraint of public sector expansion which is essential to a restoration of opportunity for private sector expansion. Therefore, I adopt that statement. I congratulate the Treasurer for making it. I merely regret that he has not followed through the logic in the figures that follow. We find later in the statement reference to wages and salaries. The Treasurer said: 
If wages and salaries continue to outstrip productivity increases, the productive capacity of the economy will decline and we shall all eventually be worse off. 
I suppose that statement could have drawn a jibe or an interjection from  Senator McLaren  if it had been made this time last year. That is why I am particularly pleased that, on this occasion, I can quote to honourable senators opposite the words of their own Treasurer because they are words that I am sure we would be using were we sitting on the benches opposite. We find that the Treasurer goes on to say: 
. it is clear that some wage and salary pressures are unrealistic and, when successful, harmful. It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction of job opportunities. 
Again, that is a frank statement and a description of what has occurred in Australia. Of course it is a guide to all of us in deciding what remedial action ought to be taken. I suggest again to the Senate and to the odd commercial traveller who may have his car radio on that it is this sort of principle with which we should all be agreeing, and the logic of which we should be applying to the economic situation. 
The other very valuable thing that is contained both in the Budget Speech and in some of the statements that have been made in the Senate, particularly by  Senator James  McClelland, relates to the whole problem of increasing public expenditure without people realising that that public expenditure comes out of their pockets. I think there has been a degree of political courage, if not the same degree of political wisdom, shown by the Government in the proposition which has been put forward in the Budget Speech and elsewhere that for the purpose of wage indexation increases in prices resulting from tax measures should be discounted. In other words, the Government is saying: 'We admit that our tax measures are a factor in forcing up the cost of living. But we are saying to you that what we want to do is take your spending power from you to spend on your behalf because we can do it better, more equitably and in a way that is more socially desirable. ' 
I do not believe the Government has a prospect of enforcing wage indexation on a basis that discounts cost of living increases due to tax rises. That is why I doubt its political wisdom. The importance of the situation is this: It underlines the fact that it is the taxpayer, the individual worker who is paying for what the Government is offering. This time last year I remember saying to the Senate that I thought the central dishonesty of a bad Budget was that there was still the impression that people were getting something for nothing. I welcome the Government's withdrawal from that proposition and its frank statement that it is the taxpayers of Australia who are paying for all the goodies. That will make the taxpayers of Australia, I am sure, a good deal more cautious about the goodies that are offered. Quite clearly they will exercise a far more vigilant eye on Government expenditure than they might have done a year or two ago. 
There are two other aspects of the Budget which I would like to touch upon briefly in the time I have left. The first is that I think there is a very dishonest feature of this Government in some of its postponements of programs which have been accompanied by a firm commitment to action in the next Budget. The reason why I suggest that that is dishonest is because I do not believe that one in ten of honourable senators opposite believe that they will be sitting opposite when the next Budget is brought down. 
With or without integrity, as  Senator Button  calls it, I do not believe that this Government is showing any of the features of a government that is able to survive. I do not wish to go into the general question, but I do wish to say that I believe that portions of this Budget have been based on the proposition that we shall probably have to face the music next year, so the Government has said: 'Let us make it as difficult as possible'. 
The 2 areas to which I refer are, firstly, the field of education and, secondly, the field of the abolition of the means test. In the field of education, I refer to page 8 of the printed Budget Speech for those who wish to check. We find that the Government steps back from the principle of triennial financing and it says that notwithstanding that that is a very good principle, the Government cannot afford to do it now. But we find that the Government will go back to triennial financing in January 1977. That is very handy. Even if this Government lasts the longest that it can possibly last, we find that it will be responsible only for a few months of the next period of triennial financing. The Government does not say: Well, we cannot afford it so we will put it aside and reconsider it next year'. It undertakes in this Budget a firm commitment to resume triennial financing in a way which I think indicates that it expects to lumber us with it. My personal view, I must say, is that we should retain triennial financing. The difference is that we have got to ensure a far greater input from government into the commissions which do the triennial planning to ensure that they are given very clear indications of what the budgetary possibilities are before they draw up their final plans. 
The other area to which I wish to refer was touched upon by  Senator Grimes.  I agree with a good deal of what was said by him about the abolition of the means test. I think that both the Government and the Opposition have got themselves into a rather difficult situation over this area, which is of considerable electoral significance. The situation really is that we now have various expert groups in the social welfare field advising us that it is simply not possible to have all the desirable assistance that there is for the really poor in Australia and at the same time to have universal social services. That problem, I think, has to be faced by both the Government and the Opposition. This Government has carefully duck-shoved the issue by simply saying: Well, we cannot afford it now but we will certainly do it in 1976, the next time round'. That is fine, but I believe that if the Government was being honest it would simply say: ' We will examine the position in 1976; we certainly would like to do it in principle but whether or not we can do it will depend on the budgetary circumstances of that time'. That, I think, would be the least the Government could say, to be honest in that particular area. 
Another matter upon which I wish to touch was also mentioned by  Senator Grimes.  I refer to the field of legal aid. I welcome the opportunity to speak about this matter, because it is something in which I have a considerable interest, and I would very much dislike the statement of  Mr Fraser  to be misinterpreted.  Mr Fraser  listed the Australian Legal Aid Office as one of those areas in which a saving could be made. He referred to the abolition of that Office. I think it is very important to stress that what we are talking about here is not the abolition of legal aid but the abolition of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
The ways of providing legal aid in Australia are many and varied, but what this Government is clearly demonstrating is a preference for providing legal aid through a Commonwealth bureaucracy. That is the fundamental point of difference between the Government and the Opposition on this issue. The Opposition is committed to providing legal aid. Very often the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  carries into this chamber the Liberal platform and 'The Way Ahead'. They contain clear commitments in the field of legal aid. The Opposition believes that, as much as possible, legal aid must be insulated and removed from government. 
Even former  Senator Murphy  acknowledged in his early speeches in the field of legal aid that it is fundamental to the freedom of the individual and it is fundamental to the democratic system in Australia that people should have access to legal services which are quite independent of government. It is no good this Government saying: Well, of course that is all right because we can ensure that the service is independent by putting a bit in an Act of Parliament which says that it is independent and that professional rules apply'. 
But of course the budgetary power of government and the general influence of government over a statutory body is well known to honourable senators. The complaints of Professor Sackville about the contents of the Legal Aid Bill are an indication that the points I am making are not points of a tory or a conservative in this field. There is a very real concern on the part of people who are anxious to see that the community is given an adequate legal aid service that that service should be much more independent of government than this Government seems to be prepared to make it. 
I point to the fact, as a sign of bad faith on the part of the Government, that whereas 2 Budgets ago it made an allocation of $2m to supplement the private legal aid schemes in the States, in the last Budget it reduced the allocation to $1.3m although ultimately it was increased to $1.5m. We find that in this Budget the allocation is to be Sim. So the hard-pressed private legal aid schemes in Australia are in fact being diminished by the Government as it tends to expand its Government service. That is a tendency about which, as a lawyer and as a Liberal, I am seriously concerned. Therefore I hope that the Government, even while it remains in office, might take a second look at its approach to legal aid and put more emphasis on ensuring that independent legal services are available generally to the public. 
The debate has been long. As I said earlier, I welcome the opportunity to have participated in it. I think that the very sad thing about this Budget is that if the sentiments contained in it had been in the hearts and minds of the Government supporters when they were elected in 1 972, they may well have gone down in history as a great reformist and most successful government. The terribly sad fact of the matter is that they will go out of government sooner or later as a rather unfortunate joke. This Government will be remembered for its promises which never came to fruitition. I believe that it is a great shame that there was not a little more common sense in the Government and a little less brilliance. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Does he agree that if reasonable wage restraint is not achieved in Australia inflation could destroy the Australian economic system? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen the report in the  West Australian  of 1 9 September 1975 headed 'Wheeldon sees social change', which purports to summarise an address by him to students at the University of Western Australia? Is the report accurate? In particular, does the Government regard the Constitution as a weight around its neck or is that merely a personal view of the Minister? Which, if any, of the participants at the Constitutional Convention in the 1890s were octogenarians? Is it the aim of the Labor Government to replace the capitalist system in Australia? Is it the Minister's view that the Australian Press is trying to undermine the Government? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the answer he gave yesterday to a question asked by  Senator Walsh  in which he said: 
The Government's attitude is that we have been elected for 3 years by a mandate of the Australian people. We believe that we should be allowed to continue to govern until that 3-year period, during which we would not normally and properly face the electorate again, . . . 
I ask the Minister whether he can, on behalf of the Government, give the Senate a firm undertaking that if the Senate did not defeat any Supply or appropriation Bills the Government would not call an election for the House of Representatives until the expiration of the maximum 3-year term for which it was elected in May 1 974. Alternatively, does the Minister believe that the Government should be free to call an election whenever it suits the Government? 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister prepared to lay on the table of the Senate today all the departmental files relating to the transfer to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd of the parcel of 420 2 1 5 barrels of indigenous crude oil, including all the papers and files relating to previous attempts to secure government approval for the transfer of this crude oil? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Does the Government have an up-to-date estimate on when the International Convention on Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination is likely to enter into force for Australia? Does the Government propose to proclaim the Racial Discrimination Act as soon as possible after that Convention enters into force? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to my question which I asked last Thursday about the tabling of files relating to the transfer of oil to ACTU-Solo Enterprise Pty Ltd and to the reply to my question which was that it would be passed on to the Prime Minister. I ask the Minister whether he has passed on the request to the Prime Minister and whether he has received any reply if he has done so? When will the documents be tabled? 
I  present the following petition from 608 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Add to the taxpayers burden. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Increase Bureaucracy at the time when Government spending should be curtailed. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I refer to an article which appeared in the  Daily News  on 7 October, a copy of which I sent the Minister yesterday. It relates to the appointment of  Mr Grassby.  I ask the Minister: What is the present status of  Mr Grassby?  Does he have a binding 7-year agreement for employment? Will the Racial Discrimination Act be proclaimed this month, as the article suggests, since presumably an appointment under the Act would require the Act to be proclaimed? If the Act is not to be proclaimed this month, how can  Mr Grassby  be appointed to the position when it does not yet exist? 
Will the Minister for Minerals and Energy undertake to take no part in raising loans overseas and will he refer to the Treasury any person contacting him with respect to loans? If the Minister's answer is yes, will he advise the Senate on what basis, other than faith in the integrity of the Minister as an individual, the Senate and the Australian people can have confidence in such undertakings from Ministers of this Government in the light of the conflicting statements made by  Mr Connor  and  Mr Khemlani  with respect to the history of attempts to raise loans overseas? 
The Opposition has not yet had an opportunity to meet and form a view on the amendment put forward by  Senator Wright.  In those circumstances I would ask that consideration by the Committee of that amendment be postponed until a later hour this day to enable the Opposition to formulate a view. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the fact that yesterday the Prime Minister made a statement in which he said that he had been misled by  Mr Connor-  that this had led him, the Prime Minister, in turn to mislead the House of Representatives. He went on to say that this constituted a breach of parliamentary standards and that it was in these circumstances that he, the Prime Minister, advised the GovernorGeneral to accept  Mr Connor's  resignation. The Prime Minister's statement that he has had to perform a painful duty to defend and preserve a parliamentary convention, namely the obligation to tell the truth to the Parliament, suggests that the Prime Minister took action to obtain  Mr Connor's  resignation. On the other hand,  Mr Connor  issued a statement suggesting that he retired because of ill health. I ask the Minister: Can he tell us which of the gentlemen is telling the truth or, if I can put it in very simple terms, did  Mr Connor  jump or was he pushed? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Why did the Government call a double dissolution in 1974 when the Senate adjourned consideration of the Supply Bills? Was the Government not following the principles acknowledged by the Australian Labor Party in 1970 that a government denied Supply must submit itself to the judgment of the people? Is the Government's present attitude not an overturning of its attitudes expressed in 1970 and 1974? Is not the real difference that in 1970 and 1974 the Labor Party thought it could win an election; today it does not? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the Prime Minister's statement on  Four Corners  last Saturday that he acted immediately he knew that  Mr Connor  had misled the Parliament, will the Minister confirm that  Mr Connor  resigned not because of ill health but because his resignation was demanded for misleading the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the report that  Mr Whitlam  reprimanded the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Crean,  for his foolish suggestion that the Government would spend money without the authorisation of Parliament. Can the Leader of the Government confirm that the Government will not spend money without authorisation of Parliament? If he can confirm that position, is not an election inevitable if the Senate delays or defeats the Appropriation Bills? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to statements by Government Ministers that if the Budget Bills are not passed certain Government activities will cease. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that a government without money granted by Parliament cannot govern? Is not that simple fact the basis of the practical requirement that a government without Supply, that is without money granted by Parliament, must resign and go to the people? 
This has been an extremely long and wide ranging debate but the wide range which has been covered is justified by the extremely broad motions that are before the Senate this afternoon. In fact, when one looks at the message which was sent to the House of Representatives by the Senate and which is referred to in the amendment moved by the Opposition yesterday, one finds that the whole area of the powers of the Senate, the constitutional issue and so on are canvassed. I refer to message No. 279. The message asserts: 
That the powers of the Senate were expressly conferred on the Senate as part of the Federal Compact which created the Commonwealth of Australia. 
It goes on to assert: 
That the Senate has the right and duty to exercise its legislative power and to concur or not to concur, as the Senate sees fit . . . 
It is all very well for words of abuse to be hurled at Opposition senators who are carrying out their constitutional responsibility in this place. I for one, having been elected by the people of Western Australia- like  Senator Everett,  I am proud to claim to be an Australian- intend to vote in a way which I believe best serves the interests of the people of Western Australia. I believe that those interests are best served by getting rid of this most unpalatable Government. There has been a great attempt to drag in red herrings. I suppose the most recent of these was the attempt by  Senator Everett  to make  Mr Khemlani,  in some way, a creature of the Opposition. It seems to me that the memories of honourable senators on the Government benches are exceedingly short. They seem to have forgotten completely the debates which took place in this chamber and in the House of Representatives in July when Parliament was recalled by the Government and when the Government tabled various documents and set about defending its role in the loans affair. 
If honourable senators examine the  Hansard  record of July for the House of Representatives they will find that the Government, in the persons of  Mr Whitlam  and of the then Minister,  Mr Connor,  defending the most important part played by  Mr Khemlani  in a search for unprecedented borrowings overseas. It is quite clear that these borrowings were never properly authorised. I refer honourable senators on the Government side to a couple of specific references. I refer them to the House of Representatives  Hansard  at page 3600 where in reference to  Mr Khemlani  the Prime Minister stated: 'Proper checks were made on the  bona fides  of the gentleman involved. ' A little later in the debate, at page 3613,  Mr Connor  stated that Treasury inquiries revealed the man's integrity.  Mr Connor,  a little later in the same speech, stated: 'I deal with honest people'.' 
There can be no doubt that over a long period this man worked on behalf of the present Government to seek to raise loans which, in July, the Government still defended as being in the national interest. For the Government to turn around and suggest that in some peculiar way  Mr Khemlani  has become the creature of the Opposition is quite Pharisaical. I simply say that it is quite clear who introduced  Mr Khemlani  into the affairs of Australia and whose agent he was. I draw to the attention of the Government the speech made by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser in the House of Representatives in that same debate where he expressed reservations not about  Mr Khemlani  's character but about his suitability for the task which had been given him by the Government. Honourable senators will also find a rather scathing reference in  Mr Connor's  speech to the so-called sneers and smears of  Mr Lynch  with respect to  Mr Khemlani. 
So in July we are subjected to Government attack because we are apparently denigrating this wonderful agent of the Australian Government. In October we are being told that, in some way, he is our creature. This is because the Government seeks to run away from the fact that this loans affair has cost it two of its most senior Ministers. It has cost them their positions for misleading the House over these loans. I say that these are significant matters which go towards making up my attitude to get rid of this Government. This has been a debate in which I suppose many of us- I do not excuse myself- have at times been intemperate either in our language or in our interjections. We have sat for 5 weeks. We have sat in the middle of what has been described as a constitutional crisis. I reject the concept of a constitutional crisis. I believe we are simply acting out the proper constitutional processes under our Constitution. 1 do say, however, that we are in the middle of a political crisis. After all, when we get to the point where an Opposition believes that the country is in such a state that it is necessary to send the government back to the people, I suppose we can properly say: 'Yes, we are in a state of crisis'. But that crisis is not constitutional. 
There is no threat of a breakdown of government in this country. It is simply an issue which will ultimately have to be determined, as are all political issues in this democracy, at the ballot box. I am looking forward to the opportunity of defending my actions before the electors who have sent me here. I am confident that they will send me back. I am confident that the electors of Western Australia do not adopt the attitude to the Senate which has been adopted by honourable senators on the government side. They say that this is an undemocratic House which is not properly representative and it ought, therefore, to be frightened of carrying out the constitutional responsibilities vested in it. I refer to the speech yesterday by  Senator James  McClelland. At page 1535 of the Senate  Hansard  honourable senators will find he stated: 
So it is certainly stretching all of the known concepts of democracy to suggest that this is a House which is as representative of the will of the people as is the House of Representatives. 
I shall stop and analyse that statement for a moment. I recall the frequent debates on electoral redistribution in Australia. All honourable senators will agree that they are debates which often give rise to a great amount of heated discussion. A favourite precedent cited by those who believe that electoral boundaries should be on a strict one vote one value basis is the American Constitution. Recent judgments of the American Supreme Court have asserted, in a most vigorous fashion, that one must apply the principle of one vote one value in the apportionment of electorates for the House of Representatives in that country. Yet do honourable senators on the government side stop and think about the fact that those same arguments are not applied to the United States Senate? This afternoon the Senate has already heard argument put forward by my colleague,  Senator Carrick,  on that point. The United States Senate is elected in the same way as the Senate of Australia. There is representation on a State basis. The United States Senate has great constitutional powers, as does this Senate. I know of no argument in the United States that that is undemocratic. I know of no argument before the Supreme Court or of no suggestion by the United States Supreme Court that the position of the Senate in the United States infringes against those Bill of Rights provisions which have given rise to the one vote one value decisions in that court. Honourable senators on the government side must admit that the argument is quite specious. 
The specific constitutional provision in Australia is that we have 2 chambers. One of them is based on electorates which are single member constituencies. Since 1901 there has been a very high level of equality of representation. This chamber is based on representing the people of the different States in an equality. As one who, for some years, has bitterly fought the rather puny but I believe potentially dangerous secessionist movement in Western Australia I believe that an important factor in keeping Western Australians happy is the fact that they are part of Austra lia and that they have a greater degree of representation in this chamber than they can achieve in. the House of Representatives. One does not have to be here for very long to realise that the great weight of numbers in the House of Representatives rests on 2 cities, namely, Sydney and Melbourne. There is an awful lot of Australia and an awful lot to Australia outside those 2 cities. 
I believe that if we are to retain the Federation and if Australia is to remain the cohesive and successful country which it has been for 75 years we must continue to preserve the additional representation, which the less populous States obtain through this chamber. I suggest to all honourable senators that it would be valuable for them- even if they represent New South Wales and Victoria- to spend some time in Tasmania, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. They would realise that distance and a lack of population mean something and that the representation afforded by this chamber means something. I will fight to the death to retain the Senate as we have it now. I believe that as honourable senators we must all look carefully at the Senate and not simply as a matter of party politics set out to denigrate it as so many Labor honourable senators are doing at the moment. I agree with comments which have been made in the debate earlier that there is not a great deal of point in trying to gather together the heads of distinguished lawyers and setting some up on this side and some up on the other side. It is true that there are differences of opinions among quite senior and distinguished lawyers as to the precise constitutional position. I would like to refer to a letter published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  and referred to yesterday by  Senator 
James McClelland. He quoted only part of that letter, which I think is a pity, but in fairness to  Senator James  McClelland he made it clear that what he was quoting was not exhaustive. I quote from what  Sir Norman  Cowper said in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday because I think it represents the most dispassionate assessment of the so-called constitutional crisis I have seen over the past fortnight. I think the Senate can pay some heed to the assessment because  Sir Norman  Cowper's conclusion is against the stance of the Opposition.  His  judgment is slightly different from mine but as an analysis of the constitutional position I think it is the clearest and least argumentative that I have seen. I quote only a small part of it, paragraph 3, which says: 
The present Prime Minister's claim that the removal of a government from office before the end of the term for which it has been elected would be a blow to parliamentary government and democratic institutions is manifestly untenable. 
So just as  Senator James  McClelland chose to quote a particular paragraph, I choose to quote that one, but rather than leave it at that I seek leave to have the whole of this letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
I commend to all honourable senators the analysis which  Sir Norman  Cowper has made and I suggest that if we can deal with the matter in the Senate in the way in which he has we might generate a little more light and a good deal less heat. The other matter which has disturbed me about the debate in this chamber is the great degree to which we are setting up matters of political expediency as matters of principle. It would be bold of me to assert that this has happened only on the other side of the chamber but I do think it has been unhelpful to democracy in Australia that there has been an attempt to justify positions on the basis of principle when in part those stances are based on politics. 
We have had an appeal today that we should heed precedent and practice and that appeal was made most recently by  Senator Everett.  My attitude in this whole business has been affected by the past practice of the Government Party. We have already had extensive references to the attitude adopted by the now Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  in 1970 when he clearly indicated in the House of Representatives that the then Labor Opposition proposed to oppose the Budget, to destroy the Budget and by destroying the Budget, to destroy the then Gorton Government, a government which I point out had been elected at that time only 10 months. All honourable senators are familiar with the passages in Hansard to which I am referring because they have been quoted so often. What happened when those Budget Bills reached this Senate then, a Senate in which at the time the majority of senators were Opposition senators? They had to face the very practical question: What was the proper course of action they should follow in those circumstances? I ask the Senate to bear in mind that at that time the Government did not have a majority in the Senate. Had all the nongovernment forces combined the Budget could have been defeated. 
I refer now to page 2030 of the Senate Hansard of 4 November 1970 and the words of former  Senator Murphy  who then was leading the honourable senators who now sit on the Government benches. The former  Senator Murphy  said: 
I simply want to say that, in accordance with what we indicated earlier, we propose to vote against the third reading of this Appropriation Bill as an indication of our complete and utter rejection of the Budget. It is not necessary to say any more than that. 
It is interesting to cast an eye down the voting list and note the honourable senators who were quite happy then to vote to try to defeat the third reading of the Appropriation Bill in 1970. For example, there was  Senator Reg  Bishop who is in charge of the chamber for the Government this afternoon who cast his 'no' vote on the Appropriation Bill at that time. 
It bears repeating when it has also been said so many times that we on this side lack principle in simply delaying these Bills. Also I find that  Senator Cavanagh,  another Minister now, voted in the same way. I find that  Senator Georges  voted in the same way, as did  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and I regret only that  Senator James  McClelland was not then a senator so that he too could have cast his vote for principle as he would then have seen it.  Senator Mulvihill  even found it in his heart to vote ' no ' on that occasion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  You are on dangerous ground in reflecting on the Chair because I might have to drop my cloak of impartiality. 
I will try not to reflect on the Chair. I withdraw any such reflection. We find that  Senator Poyser,  my opposite number from the Whip's office,  Senator Wheeldon  who is now a Minister,  Senator Willesee  who is now a Minister,  Senator Wriedt  who is now the Leader of the Government and  Senator O  'Byrne who normally sits in the Chair, also voted in that way. So the Labor view in 1970 was that it was a proper course to set out to destroy a Budget and the Government. I know that this has been said before but is it not the final proof that this argument is about politics, and to dress it up in whole lot of constitutional finery is simply a clever and so far fairly successful attempt to divert attention from the real political arguments on to a specious constitutional issue? I am pleased that  Senator Murphy  has gone to a place where his present colleagues agree with the view that he took in 1 970. 1 am pleased also to be able to quote the judgment of  Mr Justice  Stephen in the recent action in the High Court relating to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority where, referring to the Senate,  Mr Justice  Stephen said: 
It has full power of initiation, rejection and amendment of bills coming from the House and even in the case of money bills has the right freely to request amendments or to reject outright. These powers, unusual in a modern upper House, reflect the federal character of our polity. 
I say 'hear, hear' to that.  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the same case said: 
The power of the Senate to reject a proposed law- a power implicit in its position as one of the chambers of a bicameral legislature- is left untouched by section 53 so that the Senate may reject any proposed law, even one which it cannot amend. 
It is very pleasing for us all to note that former  Senator Murphy  still has colleagues who agree with his 1970 position. I devote the balance of my time to a matter which is of some importance to all of us as senators and that is the campaign of denigration of the Senate which the Government, particularly the Prime Minister, is conducting. It may well be that it is Labor Party policy to abolish the Senate but that does not mean that many of the Government senators do not carry out in a most proper and conscientious fashion their duties as senators. I believe that in this chamber far more than in the House of Representatives we carry out our duty as legislators. It may ill-behove honourable senators to congratulate the Senate, but in the present situation if we are not prepared to defend our own actions, who else will? I am happy to say that at least one academic is prepared to defend us. I refer to a report in the  West Australian  newspaper of 30 October 1975 of an address given by Professor Gordon Reid, Professor of Politics at the University of Western Australia. The report states in part: 
Only the Senate had tried to maintain the standards of parliamentary government. 
It had tried to scrutinise the legislation and the Appropriation Bills and it had tried to maintain standing committees to oversee executive government departments. 
It had been under continuing attack by successive governments since  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
Because it had exercised its power through the elected politicians it had been presented as hostile to government programs and an anomaly to modern government. 
I for one say that the Senate is in fact a legislative body which carries out its functions. I refer now to the Prime Minister's weekly broadcast on 12 October 1975 because that contains a fairly classic loaded attack on the Senate. Unfortunately I cannot debate the main subject matter of that address, the Legal Aid Bill which I hope we will deal with in this chamber shortly, but I would like to refer to a couple of statements from the Prime Minister. He said: 
. it's worth looking more closely at this Opposition tactic of referring Bills to Senate committees. They do it all the time. It's a familiar and characteristic method of Liberal obstruction. They will neither vote for a bill nor vote against it. 
I say to honourable senators opposite: Look at the 2 examples he chose. The 2 examples are very current and affect the people who are sitting opposite now. He said: 
For example, our Bill for a national compensation scheme was held up for 8 months while a Senate Committee made a report. 
I will come back to that in a minute. The Prime Minister went on to talk about what he calls an even worse example. He said: 
An even worse example concerned our legislation to clamp down on lurks and fiddles in the share market and securities business. 
He went on to say: 
When their report - 
That is, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which is known as the Rae Committee- finally appeared we promptly drafted legislation to deal with the problem. The Opposition majority in the Senate referred the Bill to yet another Senate Committee for a report. That was last April. Since then we've seen the crash of one share broking firm, Patrick 'Partners. How much more evidence is needed of instability in the stockbroker business- how many more shareholders must burn their fingers- before our legislation goes through? 
To the ignorant, both of those criticisms may seem valid. I would suggest that to not one person in the Senate- Government, Independent, or Opposition- would either of those criticisms have any connection with fact. 
Let us look at this Committee which is so destroying the ability of the Government to deal with share markets and securities- the Senate Select Committee on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975. The Committee is chaired by  Senator Georges. Senator Georges,  as the  Chairman  of that Committee, has, as is no doubt proper, a casting vote in that Committee. I have checked the resolution of the Senate which set up the Committee and have found that paragraph 7 of it provides that in the event of an equality of voting the  Chairman,  or  Deputy Chairman  when acting as the  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. So we have a situation where, quite properly, the Government would have a majority if there were a division on a matter on Party lines. I am pleased to think, although that Committee has not yet reported in full, that any division would not be on Party lines. Indeed, when I referred to the Senate  Hansard  of 28 August 1975 I found that  Senator Georges  reported to the Senate in the following terms: 
It has become necessary- and I express this necessity with regret- for the Committee to have further time to consider the Bill which is of some 285 clauses and 8 schedules- a considerable task. There has been wide interest in the Bill and 70 submissions have been received- many of them of considerable substance. However, the Committee has been active, has met on 10 occasions and has had before it representatives of the Attorney-General's Department . . . 

 Senator Georges went on to list other organisations which have been before the Committee. 
He referred to the difficulties of having more frequent meetings and said that he could assure the Senate that the Select Committee would apply itself to the task of reporting to the Senate as quickly as possible. I have said all of that simply because I believe that that Committee, as are other committees, is an excellent example of bipartisan legislative activity, the sort of activity that has made this Senate a respected institution in Australia, and I have tried not to make the comment in a partisan sense. I believe that the Committee is working to try to achieve good securities legislation and that if that takes more than a month it is simply because it is a complex and difficult question which needs careful consideration. 
The other Committee that received the lash of the Prime Minister's tongue was the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on which I served under 2 consecutive Labor Chairmen-  Senator James  McClelland and subsequently  Senator Everett.  In my view both of those Chairmen conducted the Committee's proceedings in a most admirable and proper manner. In its inquiry into a national compensation scheme that Committee, over a period of some six to eight months, held a total of 66 meetings, most of which were full-day meetings. Honourable senators will be aware of what a large additional burden that imposes upon the people who are engaged in the exercise. When we look at the report of that Committee, which was a very large report, we find that a program which the Government put forward, which was estimated to cost in the ultimate some $2,000m a year, was found unanimously by 3 Labor senators and 3 Liberal senators to be defective on not less than 16 agreed points. In other words this major program which was the product of an inquiry- the Woodhouse report- was found on an all-Party basis to be defective. So we reported to the Senate accordingly. We did what I believe the people of Australia elected us to do. 
How has the Government reacted to that? It is very simple to see. It is interesting to compare the words of the responsible Minister,  Senator Wheeldon,  with the words of the Prime Minister. In a report that he brought into the Parliament within the last week  Senator Wheeldon  said that the Senate Committee's main recommendations which have been supported by both Government and Opposition senators, will be incorporated in the new legislation. So the result of those endless, or seemingly endless, 66 meetings and the result of the 8 months delay in the Government's program will be, I trust, a Bill that is slightly less full of manifest defects than was the original Bill that we considered as a Committee. 
My point is this: Over the last 10 yearsperhaps less- the Senate has, as a legislative body, developed the traditions and, I think, the status which in the present political atmosphere the Government sees as being in its interest to destroy. J hope that Government senators will not join in the witch hunt against the Senate that has been indulged in by the Prime Minister and that they will not try to use the exercising of the constitutional powers of this chamber as a smokescreen to divert the debate from the real questions of politics that are affecting Australia. The fact of the matter is that Australia is now in a situation which nobody in his wildest dreams would have predicted in 1972. 
The fact of the matter is that, except when they have a charge of adrenalin injected into them by a mock issue fomented by that great man of a thousand faces, the Prime Minister, most honourable senators are ashamed of their Government. They know that the people who elected them have been largely neglected. They know that there will be hundreds of thousands of working people out of work after Christmas. If they are not ashamed of that I suppose it is simply a sign of the fact that being in this chamber on $20,000 a year removes them an awfully long way from the people they are supposed to represent. Honourable senators opposite represent a government which has reached the point where  Senator Wheeldon  has had to come into this chamber and say that inflation is such that the Government cannot even plan its social welfare program. I would say that in their heart of hearts many Government senators would be doubly ashamed of the failure of the Government to deal with the question of unemployment and to deal with the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty that have been before the Government for so long, and of the absolutely miserable failure of the Government to live up to its promises of 1972. They would be ashamed of the furtive carryings-on of the loans affair. They would be ashamed of the way that information has had to be forced out of the Government by journalists in a repetition, of the Watergate situation in the United States of America where the wrongdoer owned up only after the truth had been revealed by an inquiring journalist. 
I know that honourable senators opposite are going to retain their excited state for a while under the impetus of the Prime Minister's wonderful acting ability, but I suggest to them that they ought to give greater consideration to the problems of Australia and the matters which have led Opposition senators to take the course of refusing to proceed with the Budget Bills until an election is called. I believe that we are acting in the best interests of the people of Australia. I believe that we are doing no more than our constitutional duty as senators. I for one look forward to the time when an election is called and our stand is vindicated by the people. 

 - Mr President, pursuant to standing order 364 1 move: 
That the documents quoted from by  Senator Withers  in the speech just concluded be laid upon the table of the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to recent statements by the Prime Minister and by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that the Government can continue to govern without the Budget being passed by the Senate. If the Government can govern without the Budget being passed by the Parliament, what is the constitutional crisis about which the Prime Minister keeps talking? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I began to suspect during the course of - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator Chaney  will be closing the debate on this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am not in a position to say why he rose to his feet. He was the first senator to rise in this instance. 
Speaking to the point of order,  Mr Deputy President  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Perhaps I should say firstly that the speaker's list I have before me only lists  Senator Button's  name. I did have  Senator Everett's  name on the list but it was crossed out when  Senator Everett  did not rise quickly. I call  Senator Chaney  to speak to the point of order. 
Having just listened to a tirade of abuse from  Senator Poyser,  I find it a little strange that a point of order should be taken querying why I have risen to my feet. I point out to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that a considerable number of references have been made to me over the last 10 minutes and it seemed to me to be most natural that I should rise immediately. 
Not at all. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I think it would be fair, unless the Senate determines otherwise, to hear other speakers who wish to be heard on this matter. A member of the Government side of the chamber rose and I then looked across to the Opposition side of the chamber to see whether any Opposition senator wanted to speak and only one Opposition senator had risen. I will give the opportunity to any honourable senator who wishes to participate in this debate to do so. I call  Senator Button. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it not a fact that at the trial of an Australian citizen, Marko Nazor, in Yugoslavia recently a representative of the Australian Government was in attendance? Is it normal procedure for such an official of the 
Australian Government to write a report of any such proceedings that he attends? Was such a report written in this case? Will the Minister table the report, if one was written, in order that the people of Australia will know why an Australian citizen who returned to Yugoslavia for a holiday has been imprisoned for a period of 3 years for offences allegedly committed in Australia? When will the Labor Government begin to protect Australian citizens who travel in socialist countries? 
I should like very briefly to refer to the matters raised by  Senator Bunton.  It is rather touching that he should rest his interpretation of the Constitution on the opinion of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, in my view, can scarcely be regarded as a non-partisan figure in this debate. I remind  Senator Bunton  that on 30 October, a couple of days ago, I referred in this chamber, as did other senators, to the decisions of less partisan gentlemen- the judges of the High Court- on this very point. I repeat to the Senate the brief quotations from the judgments of  Mr Justice  Stephen and  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the litigation with respect to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. I suggest that each of these judges is a rather better authority on what section 53 of the Constitution means than the Prime Minister.  Mr Justice  Stephens said, in referring to the Senate: 
It has full power of initiation, rejection and amendment of bills coming from the House and even in the case of money bills has the right freely to request amendments or to reject outright. These powers, unusual in a modern upper House, reflect the federal character of our polity. 

 Mr Justice Gibbs in the same case said: 
The power of the Senate to reject a proposed law- a power implicit in its position as one of the chambers of a bicameral legislature- is left untouched by section S3 so that the Senate may reject any proposed law, even one which it cannot amend. 
I think it is a great pity that this Senate is treated to the opinions of the Prime Minister, which are essentially political opinions, and that they are put forward as a basis of interpretation of a section of the Constitution on which this Senate is basing its action. Personally, I prefer the opinions of the judges of the High Court to the opinion of the Prime Minister. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I ask the question in light of the very great public support which exists for the continuation of legal aid services and in light of the suggestion that was floating around before the recent election that the election of a Liberal-National Country Party government would mean the abolition of legal aid services in Australia. Has the Government made any decisions with respect to legal aid services? What are its intentions with respect to the existing legal aid services in the community? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory. In the light of the abolition of the Conveyancing Office has the Government taken any action to reduce the cost of conveyancing in the Australian Capital Territory, particularly with respect to domestic transactions? If not, will the Government examine the matter both from the point of view of simplifying the legal requirements and ensuring that legal costs are kept to a reasonable level? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refers to media reports today that the New South Wales branch of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association has decided to have a 24-hour strike each Monday for a month in protest against cuts in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's budget and the alleged consequential sacking of ABC employees. As an officer of an ABC staff association or union claimed on radio this morning that the position of ABC employees is being misrepresented by the media, can the Minister tell us the facts so that the Senate may know whether this is an unfortunate case of the biter being bitten? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and relates to a report in this morning's  Courier Mail  about cyclone Colin. The question arises out of those already asked this afternoon by Senators Bonner and Wood. The newspaper reports that cyclone Colin has moved steadily southwards from its location 470 kilometres east-north-east of Gladstone. I should say to the Minister that that sounds like a long way from Gladstone, but can he tell the Senate and the people of Gladstone how far it is in miles and can he advise whether there is any simpler way of doing the calculation than by multiplying by 1.8 and dividing by three? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that I was quite robust until I had an unrelieved diet of soggy sandwiches and rather unpleasant biscuits on the airlines and had to drink something described as tea or coffee but not identified as being either. Is the provision of in-flight services regarded by the Government as a matter affecting the efficient and economic operation of air services so as to bring such services within clause 10 of the Civil Aviation Agreement, contained in the Second Schedule to the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-73? If it is so regarded, does this prevent either of the 2 airlines improving the present standard of in-flight service without the approval of the other airline? 
I rise to speak briefly to this Bill. The background of the Bill has already been outlined by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech.  Senator Button  has indicated that this legislation is almost identical with the legislation which was introduced by the previous Government. The legislation basically has not been changed by the present Government. However, I rise to welcome the one small change which has been made in the legislation. That change relates to the use of the word 'Commonwealth' in place of the word 'Australian'.  Senator Button  has commented on that point in his usual light and humorous fashion. He has referred to the change of style which was adopted by the previous Government. 
I put forward 2 bases on which the word Commonwealth' should be retained by the present Government. The first is that the word Commonwealth' is properly descriptive of the political and constitutional situation in Australia. The second is that real confusion can arise within Australia if the term 'Australian' is used to describe the Federal Government's organs. The use of the word 'Australian', which is common with respect to the armed forces and other Australian efforts overseas, whether in diplomatic activities or otherwise, gives rise to no confusion at all; but within Australia a good number of people would say that those who are employed by a State service are just as much Australian public servants, just as much members of an Australian teaching service, as people who are employed by the Commonwealth. I welcome the less confusing terminology which has been adopted by the Government. I think that it properly reflects the constitutional position and I trust that the Government will continue to be consistent in its use of that expression. 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  I refer to your statement last week that the Press Gallery accreditation of a photographer had been withdrawn by you and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives because of a breach of the rules of the parliamentary Press Gallery. I ask: Do the rules of the parliamentary Press Gallery contain any requirement about accuracy and standards of reporting? Are Clem Lloyd and Andrew Clark accredited to the parliamentary Press Gallery? Have you,  Mr President,  seen reports of a book written by  Mr Lloyd  and  Mr Clark  entitled Kerr's King Hit which contains allegations that the Governor-General approached and obtained advice from the Chief Justice of the New South 
Wales Supreme Court, and reports of a categorical denial of such allegations by the Chief Justice,  Sir Laurence  Street? Will you examine this matter to see whether some action with respect to the accreditation of these authors is appropriate, particularly in the light of the fact that by the nature of the allegations and the resultant denial they could not have been verified by the authors before publication? 
Pursuant to standing order 364, I move: 
That the papers referred to by  Senator Harradine  during his speech be laid upon the table. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to reports, which were widespread in the Australian Press earlier this month, of allegations made at a women's conference in Brussels that Aboriginal women are being compulsorily sterilised in the Northern Territory. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any inquiries have been made about these allegations? Can she confirm or deny the truth of the allegations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of the Special Air Service Regiment. 
What is the present operational strength of the Special Air Service Regiment. 
Has the Government given any consideration to the establishment of a Special Force Directorate within the Department of Defence. 
Will the Minister make a statement to the Parliament on the role of special forces in the continental defence of Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she has seen recent newspaper reports referring to the number of appeals by members of the public against decisions taken by the Department of Social Security which are upheld by the Social Security Appeals Tribunals? It has been said that 70 per cent of appeals have been upheld by the Tribunals. Is this figure correct and, if so, can the Minister explain why it is so high? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What accommodation for Navy personnel involved on HMAS  Stirling  is being provided (a) on Garden Island and (b) in nearby suburbs. 
What is the maximum number of Navy personnel who will be (a) stationed at HMAS  Stirling  and (b) visiting HMAS  Stirling  from time to time, for whom accommodation should be provided by the Navy. 
Has the size of the hospital facility on HMAS  Stirling  been reduced during the planning stages and, if it has, (a) what was the size originally planned, (b) what is the size now planned, and (c) what is the comparative cost of the two hospitals. 
I rise to speak on behalf of what is beginning to appear to be a silent minority. I would like to support the Government's action and to oppose the course of action that has been indicated by some of my colleagues. In fairness to those who I am sure will do likewise, I would like to give the Committee some indication of why this should be done. I preface my remarks by saying that of course I, like other honourable senators and I am sure like every member of Parliament, feel regret that any benefit should be removed or cut. It is never a palatable political task to reduce a benefit which anybody is receiving. Honourable gentlemen opposite ought to remember the extreme reluctance of their own Government over a number of years to say 'no' to anybody who was seeking any sort of benefit and to realise that this Government would not have taken the decision lightly or easily. 
There are 2 matters which in my view it is necessary to consider to see the context of what is proposed by these clauses. Firstly, I would like to refer to the general problem of inflation and, secondly, to the general benefits which are granted under this Bill. It is terribly easy for people to say, 'What has inflation really got to do with these social service benefits?'. But, of course, the 
Commission of Inquiry into Poverty conducted under the chairmanship of Professor Henderson makes it very clear in its report that there is a direct link between the problems that arise in social welfare and the problems of inflation. The inflation which was largely fuelled by the previous Government with its pacesetter wage principle and with its glorious attitude towards Government spending has, in fact, hit many of the weakest in the community. There are many passages in the Henderson report which would bear that out. I refer to page 10 of the report where Professor Henderson states: 
In 1974-75 it seems that inflation created poverty through unemployment. But rapid inflation has also contributed to poverty even more surely in many other ways. There is very clear evidence from countries such as Brazil, which have suffered a high rate of inflation for many years, that the great majority of poor people have made no progress and many have become worse off. 
I will skip a few lines and carry on where the report states: 
The basic reason for this is simple: inflation favours the active and the powerful; the position of poor people  deterioriates 
Many honourable senators would be familiar with those passages. I turn to page 11 of the report where it is stated: 
In our judgment, no country with a continuing inflation rate of over 10 per cent has been able to prevent this causing grave hardship to important groups of poor people. We do not believe that Australia can escape this consequence. 
Everybody who has spoken to these clauses has paid lip service to the cuts in Government expenditure which have been made already by the Fraser Government. They have expressed their regret, as I am expressing my regret, that the Government has seen the need to cut out this $1.7m benefit. I point out that that is the total of cuts in a Bill which grants increases in benefits of $230m. We are dealing with one area of social welfare cuts that the Government has proposed. We find Professor Henderson 's description of funeral benefits on page 238 of the same report to be as follows: 
Special payments to the person responsible for the burial of a deceased pensioner are discussed in Volume 2 - 
The next sentence states: 
The rate of benefit now paid is laughable in relation to funeral costs and should either be abandoned or changed. 
Honourable senators opposite now say that it should be changed. They did nothing to change it. They did nothing to increase it when they were in government. I simply say: By all means, let us all encourage the 
Government to look to some other means of providing some form of benefit. But to suggest that the funeral benefit is of major significance is, in fact, to play politics in this area. The Opposition knows it. I ask honourable senators simply to look at the volume of reduction in expenditure which is proposed by these clauses and the volume of increases in expenditure which are proposed by the rest of the Bill. The total cost to revenue in a full year of the proposals contained in the Bill is increased by $230m. There will be $230m in increases and $1.7m in decreases. I regret that the action of my honourable colleagues- I regard them as that- will succeed in focusing the attention of the community not on the fact that there has been an additional $230m worth of benefits paid but on the fact that there has been a reduction of $1.7m in certain payments. I would say that when those 2 matters are taken into account and when the seriousness of the inflation problem which has been left with the Government by the previous Government is considered, the Government warrants support. It is terribly easy for honourable senators opposite to say that they oppose any cuts in Government expenditure. I suggest with the greatest of respect to my colleagues that it is also easier to make the decision they have made than to grasp the nettle and face up to their responsibilities in the wider sphere of ensuring that general benefits going to all pensioners continue to increase and that we do, in fact, take a realistic attitude in tackling the problem of inflation. I finish my remarks by expressing the hope that I expressed earlier, namely, that the Government will consider the problem of funeral costs for pensioners when it is considering the Budget over the next few months. I would certainly have preferred to see cuts in some other area. But if the Government has found that this is the course it must follow, I for one intend to support it. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government, and I preface it by referring to the sentiments I expressed when I first spoke in this chamber about the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge, whom I regard as being one of the finest men ever to sit in this Parliament. Has the Minister seen the report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  and other newspapers that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  has alleged that the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge was a corrupt Minister? Can the Minister comment on this scurrilous defamation of a deceased senator? 
It is clear from the speeches which have already been made in the Senate that there are substantial areas of agreement within the Senate and between the parties in the Senate on the question of East Timor. I refer to the speeches made today in this chamber which show, I think, substantial areas of agreement. I refer to the speeches made outside this chamber and on other occasions in the chamber by senators such as yourself,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and others. I know that  Senator Missen  and  Senator Harradine  are anxious also to make a contribution to this debate. However, the matter of urgency is critical of the stance which has been adopted by the present Government. I think it is clear that there has been ample demonstration of the fact that it was the previous Labor Government which showed the cynicism and neglect which really set the policy on East Timor off on the wrong foot. Government senators do not accept the implication contained in this matter of urgency. 
We assert that the present Government has paid proper regard to the people of East Timor and that it has expressed to Indonesia and to the world a proper view on matters such as self determination. For that reason, the Government does not support the matter of urgency as it is worded. Although I make that statement, I ask honourable senators to recall the substantial areas of agreement in connection with this matter. To vote against this matter of urgency should not be interpreted as a complete rejection of many of the matters raised in it. I commend to anyone who is anxious to know the attitude of Australian parliamentarians a study of the releases which have been made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the speeches which have been made in this chamber and in the other chamber. The Senate is aware that the Government wishes to proceed with debate on legislation after the suspension of the sitting for dinner. That being the case, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  I am sorry  Senator, the  question has to be put The question is: That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
It is not surprising that the Opposition should indicate that it will oppose this legislation, that it will seek to defeat its second reading and to amend the Bill in the Committee stage. I think that the Opposition quite rightly would regard this legislation as being quite fundamental to, and as indicating, one of the basic differences which lie between the Government and the Opposition.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said late in his speech that the previous Government had endeavoured to enter into a partnership with local government and to elevate its status. He can point to some extent to the increased financial assistance which flowed to local government in the life of the previous Government. 
At the same time, there is another interpretation which is to be placed upon the attitude of the now Opposition to local government. That is that it was seeking to use local government firstly as an arm of central government and secondly as a means of doing away with the federal system and with the State governments which are essential to that system. That is not a matter of putting a sinister interpretation on good works. If honourable senators want support for that interpretation of Labor's approach to local government, I would commend to all honourable senators, indeed to local government and to all electors of Australia, a reading of the various formal speeches of the now Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, who, in a series of lectures starting, I think, in the 1950s and proceeding through the 1960s, sketched Labor's approach to the Australian Constitution. In those lectures, it is made quite clear that  Mr Whitlam  and his Party see it as being desirable that the State governments should wither away and that Australia should be served by a central government in Canberra and a series of regional arrangements through building on what is now local government in Australia. 
That view happens to be a vision of Australia that we in the Government are utterly opposed to. This Bill, representing as it does one step in the process of restoring the federal system of Australia, is something on which we place considerable significance. As a member of the Opposition under the previous Government I became quite used to hearing that Government speak of matters in respect of which it claimed to have a mandate. If there is one area in which the now Government can say it made its position patently clear it is in this area of its federalism policy generally. That policy was prepared in the life of the previous Government and presented to the Australian people. It made it quite clear that we would enter into the sorts of arrangements which are now being thrashed out by the Federal Government, State governments and local government. 
Let me refer in this debate to the federalism policy which was produced by the now Government when it was in Opposition and to the references to local government in that policy. That makes it quite clear that this has been envisaged for some time and that the electorate embraced the concept of the federalism policy. It is stated in that policy that a fixed percentage of personal income tax for distribution through the 
States to local government would be implemented and that this percentage would be shown on the tax form. It was made clear in the policy that that money would be dealt with in 2 distinct ways: Firstly, there would be a per capita grant to all local government bodies with a weighted formula in contemplation; and secondly, there would be an equalisation or topping up grant to be distributed through the State grants commissions. This concept has been well aired and discussed. It has been subjected to campaigning in the last Federal election campaign. I believe it has been widely embraced in local government circles and, indeed, in the community. 
One of the reasons why it has been embraced is because of the deficiences of the approach of the previous Government. I have not had the close association with local government that many honourable senators have had. I have never served as an alderman or councillor. But I know from my normal electoral contact with local government of the intense irritation that was engendered in local government at the waste and inefficiency that was involved, particularly in the early administration of the Regional Employment Development scheme and in areas in which the Commonwealth was seeking apparently to assist local government but making its own demands for control and supervision. Local government found this irksome and it flies in the face of what we believe should be involved in local government, namely, a spirit of independence and self-reliance, and not the spirit of a servant carrying out the orders of the central government. So this is a matter which has been aired and which has been placed before the people. I believe that their response reflected the deficiencies in the approach of the previous Labor Government. 
Our policy went on to say that this would assist local government and that it would be a vital reform because it would enable it to have revenues of known dimensions and to enter into forward budgeting. I think that point, when tied to the point of some part of the money being available in per capita grants, goes very much to the theory which activates the Government in putting forward this legislation. After all, if we really believe that local government has value because it is local- that there ought to be an element of local independence- it is essential that the local governing body should have a degree of financial independence and that it receive money which is not subject to direction as to how it should be spent and which will not be cut off if, through the efforts of the local government itself, it raises its standards to a level at which, on a needs basis, it will cease to qualify for assistance. In other words, it is no good having a system which removes the incentive for local government to help itself. 
Quite frankly, I think one has to step back from the very worthy needs principle but not in totality. Of course, the policy contained in this legislation does not suggest that we would step back from it in totality. But if we are genuine in our wish to retain a degree of local independence and discretion, we have to step back from simply doing everything on a needs basis. Once that is done, it becomes inevitable that there is a supervision of standards, of revenue-raising and of every aspect of activity in such a way as to remove, in the long run, all local independence. It is difficult sometimes to put that argument to local government when it has had a relatively short experience of receiving moneys from the Commonwealth. The parallel which really ought to be looked at by those in local government who worry about the change in system is that of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. In that sphere we have the same laudible objections that there should be equalisation and that the individuals within the States should be treated fairly and on an equal basis around Australia, notwithstanding the different tax bases within the different States. But, of course, the history of our Federation is quite clear. It is quite clear that the financial power of the Commonwealth has led to the steady weakening of the State governments. It has led to a system under which the truly local nature of the State governments themselves has been reduced. 
I think  Mr Whitlam  's suggestion in this respect was quoted in the Senate recently. He said that the tax system and the system of financial arrangements had debauched the States. I think that the lesson of history is extremely clear. If the States enter into long term relationships with the Commonwealth of the sort that the States have with the Commonwealth at this time, it would be inevitable that well meaning Commonwealth governments would gradually take to themselves more and more control, more and more of the decision-making, and require more and more administration to enable them to perform those functions and, in the end, the whole nature of local government would be destroyed. So this is an area in which to a great extent one 's approach is affected by the way one thinks the administration of Australia will best be organised. If honourable senators believe, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland believes, that the government of Australia should be run from Canberra with a degree of decentralised administration through regions, they would say that what we are doing is destructive. If, on the other hand, honourable senators believe, as the present Government does, that government must be brought as close as possible to the people- I take those words from the early part of our federalism policythen what we are doing is simple and logical and will lead to better government in Australia, including better local government in Australia. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland raised a number of specific objections. I would like to touch on a couple of those briefly. First of all, he seemed to be saying that the attitude that has been adopted by the Fraser Government would mean an end to regionalism in Australia. That is a view which I would oppose. It is absolute nonsense. The fact of the matter is that there is nothing to prevent local authorities, by their own wish and through their State governments, adopting regional arrangements for various reasons. Indeed, the federalism policy of our Party makes it quite clear that what we are against is the forcing of regions on to local authorities from Canberra. We make it quite clear- it is expressly stated- that local bodies will be free to establish formal or informal groupings from time to time for particular functional purposes. Our policy requires, however, that we will not use regions as instruments to by-pass the States and to amalgamate areas without their consent. 
Once again, I will refer to my own electoral experiences. The regionalism policy which was adopted by the previous Government certainly seemed to cause a considerable amount of confusion and dismay among local authorities with which I have had contact. I simply make the point that what we are doing in no way represents a stance against regionalism, provided that regionalism is not being used for purposes other than the apparent purpose of providing better services and enabling local government to function in a better manner. Another point made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland was that if our policy is adopted and this Bill and associated measures are passed, it will mean that the Commonwealth will be able to brush off local government. Once again, I suggest that that is an interpretation which cannot be placed on this legislation. In fact, the legislation provides specifically that there is to be a continuing ability on the part of the Grants Commission to look at the needs of local government. It is proposed to insert the following new section 17 into the Act which shall provide: 
The Commission shall inquire into and report to the Minister upon any matters- 
being matters relating to the making of a grant of assistance to a State, under section 96 of the Constitution, for local government purposes; or 
being matters relating to a grant of assistance made to a State, under section 96 of the Constitution, for local government purposes, 
In my view, the importance of that provision is that while that power is there it would not be possible for any Federal government to allow local government to be neglected. It would do so at its peril because any critic within the local government area would be able to point to that section and say that authority was vested in the Commonwealth and that it should be invoking the power of the Grants Commission. He could say that since the Commonwealth was doing that, it was politically at fault. In other words, the normal political sanction would be there. I am sure that no one in this chamber will deny the political influence which is exercised by people who are active in local government. I suggest that the simple political fact is that it would not be possible for any Federal government to ignore the real needs of local government. 
However, there is a structural arrangement which is proposed by the Government and which again has been extensively discussed and publicised. It is a matter of discussion between the Government, the State governments and local authorities and will ensure that local government has a direct public voice which it can use to influence the Government. I refer to the proposal to establish a council for intergovernment relations. As is stated in our federalism policy document, we see that council as being a vital institution of co-operation within the various forms of government. It is to be an independent statutory body. It will have major status. Its membership will include nominees of Federal, State and local governments and also some citizens. It will have an advisory and investigatory function and it will, by reference from either Federal, State or local government, examine in depth the problems which emerge between the various branches of government. That latter point is, in my view, extremely significant because it means again that local government will have a public vehicle within which it can exert a proper influence not only on the Federal Government but also on the State governments with which it is vitally connected. So I suggest that the objection of  Senator Douglas  McClelland- I think it was his objection numbered 4- that the Commonwealth will be able to brush off local government in the future under this arrangement simply does not hold water. 
Another major objection that  Senator Douglas  McClelland raised is one which again I think has a philosophical base rather than a base of practical experience, because he said that by insisting on the creation of State Grants Commissions we were going to be less efficient. He said that it would be less efficient to have multiple units involved in the exercise of dividing up funds among local governments. That is a matter in relation to which, I suggest, there is a clear difference in the philosophical stance adopted by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and the philosophical stance adopted by this Government, because we do not believe that centrally administered programs are necessarily more efficient or that they are necessarily better. I suggest that there are many examples to be found both in government and in business which show that the creation of large units has resulted in a less responsive unit and a less efficient unit rather than having the reverse result. 
My own belief is that the administration of a system of grants over 900 local government authorities is a mammoth task to be carried out by a single body. When one bears in mind the different composition of local government bodies in the various States, when one bears in mind the different functions that are carried out by local government in the various States, and when one bears in mind the extreme variety of conditions that exist around Australia whereby local government authorities are administering the affairs of a handful of people who live in an area as large as many European countries, I think one begins to realise that the whole concept of central administration is one which needs to be looked at terribly carefully. This Government is showing by this legislation that it has faith in administration which is dispersed and which is closer geographically- that factor alone, I believe, is important- to the units which it is seeking to assist. I am prepared to run the risk which the Opposition seems to believe we are running of having difficulties in this area, because I do believe that we will find that by decentralising administration in many areas and not merely in this area in fact we will improve government in Australia and make it closer to the people. 
The remarks I have made have not touched on a good deal of what might be said about this Bill, but I would like to give  Senator Gietzelt  a chance to make a very brief start to his speech this afternoon, probably because I cannot resist irritating him late in what has been a long and hard week. So I propose to close my remarks with those comments. However, I would like to express my appreciation in closing for the fact that this Government, I think for the first time in the 75 years of Federation, has set about reversing the trend towards central government in Australiaa trend which is, I think, best and most simply documented in  Sir Robert  Menzies' book  Central Power in the Australian Commonwealth.  I do not pretend that this is a matter upon which the Parliament can hope to reach agreement, as so often we can when we wish to see that the best interests of the country are served by a course of action on which we can be unanimous. The public often forgets how often it is that legislation passes through this chamber with all parliamentarians of one mind that it is for the good of the country. However, on this occasion we are now dealing with an area in relation to which there is a genuine difference of political philosophy between us. In the utmost good faith- I think this was very kindly and well acknowledged by  Senator Douglas  McClelland when he opened his speech- we are making changes which we believe will make Australia a better place and Australian government better. The Opposition believes to the contrary. I am grateful that we are being given the chance to put our theory into practice. I trust that it will be successful. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) How many members are there on the Leader of the Opposition's personal staff. 
What are (a) their names, (b) designations, and (c) salaries. 
Which of them are (a) permanent or (b) temporary Public Servants. 
From which departments have the permanent public servants been seconded. 
How many advisers and consultants have been employed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Are these advisers and consultants full-time or parttime and what are their names and salaries. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: In the past few months has the Government withdrawn transport facilities from Aboriginal vocational officers operating in Western Australia? Is there also a shortage of staff in Western Australia operating the Department's employment services for Aborigines? For how long is the Government prepared to tolerate the severely adverse effects on Aboriginal employment in Western Australia which results from withholding these necessary resources? 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services to a telegram received by Government senators yesterday relating to Medibank and signed 'Citizens Chisholm'. I understand that inquiries made of Telecom in Melbourne indicate that the telegram was sent from the telephone of  Senator Melzer  in Melbourne, number 29 3020. 1 ask the Minister whether this is correct. Can he advise who will pay for the telegram sent to Government senators advising them that they should oppose Medibank? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. I note the fact that it is the last day of the session and that honourable senators are extremely tired but I draw your attention to the excellent attendance in the Senate at the moment. I ask whether you might arrange for photographs of the Senate to be taken from time to time, to assist me in keeping a quorum. 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Reference was made to me in the speech by  Senator Coleman  to the effect that this morning I asked a Dorothy Dix question of the Minister representing the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Clearly that expression is meant to indicate that I asked the question as part of a ministerial device to put information before the Senate, and that is simply not true. That question was one which I asked because in the Budget Papers there is an area of uncertainty left as to what the final expenditure for Aboriginal welfare programs will be. As the report in this morning's  Financial Review  indicates the Hay report provides no basis for big Aboriginal cuts I was concerned- and I think properly concernedto know where additional funds would come from. In response to my question the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Treasurer in this place, indicated that additional funds could come from the advance account of the Treasurer or through additional appropriations next year. 
In any event, I wish to make it quite clear to the Senate that in no sense was I involved in what is termed a Dorothy Dixer. My question reflected concern in the area to which the honourable senator addressed the bulk of her remarks to some extent. To the extent that she showed concern then I share her concern in this area and I assure the Senate that I will continue to do so. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the statement in the Budget Speech delivered last week that in light of reviews of programs in Aboriginal affairs additional funds will be provided. I have not found in the Budget papers provisions for additional expenditures so I ask the Minister: When decisions are made for further expenditure where will the money come from? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Is she aware of the reason for yesterday's visit to Wilcannia by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister? If so, can she advise the Senate of the object of the visit? Can the Minister give the Senate any more information about the visit? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the problems faced by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in Western Australia in providing adequate services across the very large area of the State. What is the attitude of the Government to the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service? Is this an area in which additional funds might be made available? 
I rise to speak with considerable enthusiasm about the Budget papers which have been presented in the Senate. I hope I can speak without the evident boredom of  Senator Grimes  (Quorum formed)  I suppose I should give the customary thanks to the honourable senator who has given me a larger audience. I am scarcely surprised that a quorum was called for because after the doleful speech to which I was referring relatively few of my colleagues remained to listen. I do not blame  Senator Grimes  who has just been forced to go on other business for being doleful because this Budget debate has lacked the excitement of some of the Budget debates of late, particularly in 1974. 1 think by this stage in the process of the Budget debate in that year the Budget had been effectively gutted by Caucus. That meant that because of the way in which the debate was able to flow through the chamber it was far more exciting than the present debate because this Government has followed a consistent economic pattern since it was elected in December. 
At least the Government knows where it is going. It has its course set and it intends to stick to it. I start by stating that I for one do not apologise for the fact that this Government has set as its first objective for its economic policy the defeat of inflation. While the Australian Labor Party was in government I got heartily sick of the absolute mess which it got us into. People were being destroyed by that mess. Professor Henderson has often been quoted in this Parliament by people on my side of politics, especially in relation to inflation and what is was doing to the poor. Professor Henderson in his first report in 1975, after refering to some of the effects of inflation stated: 
In our judgment, no country with a continuing inflation rate of over 10 per cent has been able to prevent this causing grave hardship to important groups of poor people. 
That, of course, is a fact. It has never been argued against. The Labor Party was responsible for setting a course which was extremely damaging to those who were in need in Australia. I cite an even closer authority in  Senator Wheeldon  who was the Minister for Social Security. He told the public of Australia that while there was such a high rate of inflation it was not possible to plan to alleviate poverty in Australia. These are matters which ought to be remembered by honourable senators opposite when they are speaking about this Budget. I believe that since December this Government has established that it has a balanced approach which seeks to look after all Australians. I think that needs to be understood in the community if we are to succeed. Therefore it has to be said again and again by supporters of this Government until it is clearly understood. 
It is put across by the Labor Party that this is a government of sectional interests. If we examine the acts of this Government since December it Ls quite clear that nothing could be further from the truth. If honourable senators look at what we have done in social reform they will find a concentration on need which certainly escaped the Labor Administration and which is precisely in line with the sort of approach which was recommended by Professor Henderson and which I think shows the true conscience of this Government. When the Government was elected the whole of Australia accepted that the Government would have to exercise financial restraint. I believe it is terribly important that within that framework of financial restraint the Government has concentrated on looking after the needy. There was a somewhat slighting reference to the family allowance by  Senator Grimes  who has responsibility in this area for the Labor Party. If we refer to the Henderson report, which I mentioned a little while ago, we find set out quite clearly the justification for the changes which were brought in by the Government in May and which are now in operation. We find that Professor Henderson pointed out that taxation deductions, which were the major forms of assistance granted, favoured the wealthy. This assistance did not provide money for those who were most in need. Professor Henderson stated: 
Child endowment is of much more value to the poor and is a more equitable form of payment compared with taxation deductions. Because of high marginal tax rates, taxation deductions are much more valuable to the rich and middle classes. In 1973, the revenue forgone through this concession was in the order of $260m. 
We now find that the Labor Party is the champion of those who are earning middle and high incomes, as against those who are on low incomes. I think it might be useful for this country if the Labor Party, which is supposed to be the friend of the oppressed, came out and supported what is a most substantial reform in favour of 800 000 children in the community who are in relatively poor circumstances in the 300 000 families which are in relatively poor circumstances. I cite that simply as one example of the Government's attitude to social reform. 
Handicapped children were also mentioned by  Senator Grimes.  He acknowledged that assistance to handicapped children has been increased by 50 per cent. That is in the form of a direct grant. In addition, institutions dealing with handicapped children have also received substantial increases in their assistance. Another area of social reform which has been tackled is the reduction of death duties. Who will quarrel with the substantial extension of concessions which are contained in the Budget to widows or to spouses? This is an area which directly affects not only the material but also the emotional welfare of many Australians. The present exemption takes to $90,000 the value of estates which are outside the Federal estate duty field. I think this is a substantial reform which ought to be applauded on both sides of the chamber. 
I cite these matters simply to show what I think is an admirable record in the 8 months in which this Government has been in office. It has directed its attention to ensuring that the needy in the community are looked after. Once again we have had passing and almost slighting reference to the fact that for the first time in the history of Australia the aged, through the pension system, will get automatic adjustments. These adjustments do not depend upon the goodwill or the ill-will of politicians. They will be automatic. This is an historical first in this country. It ought to be acknowledged. Again I cite this as the essence of the Government's good faith. 
-I refer the honourable senator who interjects to the last Budget introduced by the Labor Party where adjustments were made on precisely the same basis. It was predicted that adjustments would be made over the next 12 months on precisely the same basis. 
Tonight I have very little time to refer to all the matters I would like to mention. It ought to be clearly understood in this chamber and around Australia that in the area which I see as being fundamental to social welfare, that is in the area of the health of the economy and in the restoration of full employment, the Government has done an enormous amount in the time which it has had. The future of this country is bright because we have enormous possibilities for development. 
Developments will now occur because of the changes we have made in our tax structure. This development certainly could not otherwise have occurred. I hope that Labor senators from Western Australia will acknowledge the great boost which will be given to that State by the substantial changes to the tax laws which were introduced in this Budget. In fact, I put to the Senate and to the people of Australia that the consistent approach to business matters, the encouragement of investment and the encouragement of business through tax concessions are matters which will stand the country in good stead over the next couple of years. The introduction of tax indexation, the first instalment of which has come this year, will bring continuing benefits to Australians in the years to come. About $ 1 ,000m will be saved this year. Certainly in the pockets of those who receive it it will be offset in good part this year by the Medibank levy but tax indexation is with us as a permanent feature and will ensure that in future there is not the growing tax bite that was a feature of the Labor Government's administration. 
There is one matter on which I wish to address my remarks principally to the Government, although additionally to the Senate and the people of Australia, and that is a section of the Budget about which there is still an element of uncertainty. It has been referred to in this place and in the House of Representatives. It was provided in the Budget that there would be certain specified expenditure for Aborigines and the Budget Speech includes this very important statement: 
In the case of some programs such as grants for Aboriginal housing associations, the provisions in the Budget are to cover outstanding firm commitments pending further  reviews of the objectives, priorities and past administration of those programs. 
In the light of those reviews additional funds will be provided. 
I wish to put to the Government, without the assistance of  Senator Keeffe  who can do nothing but damage my case, that there are substantial areas where additional expenditure could usefully be made through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to an answer given in the House of Representatives on 25 August by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when in response to a question he underlined the undertaking in the Budget. He referred to the passage I have quoted and pointed out that the words 'will be provided' were used and not the word 'may' or 'might'. He said that that was said on Budget night, that is the firm position of the Government and that there should be no doubt about it. 
I also remind the Senate and the Government of an answer given to me by  Senator Guilfoyle  yesterday in response to a question about the Prime Minister's visit to Wilcannia. That was a very important visit because we now have an indication from the Government that it sees the operation being undertaken in Wilcannia as a successful one. I have spoken to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and he has to some extent supplemented the answer given by  Senator Guilfoyle.  He has indicated that this operation is successful because the Aboriginal community is running it. It is running an efficient housing association, men are in work, alcoholism has almost disappeared and children are in school instead of in hospital while, most importantly of all, the Aboriginal people of Wilcannia have done it themselves. I refer also to the laudatory remarks made about the Aboriginal legal service in the Senate this morning by the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I mention those matters simply because they underline that there are areas where further expenditure is warranted on projects which can be usefully carried out. 
I am one who believes that, for all the goodwill it may have had, the previous Government did some damage to the Aboriginal community. There were areas where there was lax administration, where there was waste and where there was the sort of maladministration that was described by  Senator Cavanagh  as disastrous. I found- certainly in the outback areas I visitedsome very real resentment in the non-Aboriginal community. I believe that in significant areas of Australia there was substantial illwill generated by the Government through loose administration and error. I do not pretend that in such a difficult field one can avoid error but those destructive elements in what was otherwise a positive policy have to be avoided. I support, therefore, the Government 's intention to do away with waste. 
My basic thesis is that there are plenty of areas where without waste useful additional expenditure can be undertaken and I and many other honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives await with interest the results of reviews and the decisions which will no doubt be announced later this year. The sort of matter I think the Government should examine- I give this by way of example only- is the project at One Arm Point in Western Australia where the Bardi Aboriginal Association has already had a good deal of Government assistance in housing and infrastructure. A fishing boat and machinery have been purchased, although the machinery is still in Brisbane. There we have a lot of existing infrastructure and a lot of expenditure already undertaken but on the information I have it really is useless spending $45,000 on machinery which remains in Brisbane instead of going to Bardi to make fish meal, which is what it was bought for. It really is useless having an expensive fishing boat sitting on the beach without an engineer to operate it. 
Of course it is not the fault of the Aborigines. I am saying to the Government that this is the sort of area in which it should ensure that the expenditure made to date is not wasted and that there is further expenditure. 
I understood that  Senator Keeffe  was a man who favoured helping Aborigines. I am trying to put that case and his interruptions seem to be rather pointless. I conclude by saying in the little time which remains to me that it is in areas such as this that there is a real risk that what has been expended to date will be wasted unless the Government is able to marshall its forces, get the money together and, more importantly, get the right people involved so that the Aborigines can gain the benefit of what has been done. The Government should mount a genuine and viable operation which will do the Aborigines some long term good. What we want to see are many examples of the sort of thing the Prime Minister saw on Monday, examples of projects in which Aborigines are involved and where, because of their involvement and success, there ceases to be problems of drunkenness, neglect and other things. As is so often the case, debates in this place divide on party lines in a way which is completely destructive of the spirit of the debate. I would have thought that within this Parliament there was an enormous amount of support for a continued major effort in Aboriginal affairs. Quite frankly, if the effort is going to be encouraged by one side to the boos of the other side we are moving backwards. I suggest to  Senator Keeffe  that if he is genuinely interested in what the Government ought to be doing he should take a more constructive attitude than the one he has adopted tonight. 
I have 2 minutes left before you will sit me down,  Mr Deputy President,  and I would merely like to summarise the general proposition I have put to the Senate tonight. I think it is important that it be understood in the community that this Government in a number of ways has insulated the most needy sections of the community from want. It has ensured that the aged get pension adjustments which keep them up with rises in the cost of living and for the first time in Australia's history that is being done automatically without the intervention of this Parliament. The Government is ensuring that children from low income familiesget major additional support in line with whathas been recommended by Professor Henderson. It has also ensured that the weakest in the community are helped and that the productive sector of the community, the business sector, receives incentives. With evenhandedness it has set the stage for Australian development of the sort we have seen in the past but which was nearly destroyed by the previous Government. I commend the Budget. I say to the Government that it must stick to the course it set in December. I believe then that in a couple of years we will see the great benefits that accrued from consistent and stable government. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I refer the Minister for Social Security to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  today relating to negotiations with the banks to credit family allowances to accounts monthly. The report suggests that the Government may pull out of the negotiations. Is the report accurate? What is the position of a family which wants to receive family allowance payments more frequently than on a quarterly basis? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the following statements represent Government attitudes in the particular area to which they refer. The first statement is as follows: 
The Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean must be seen as a calculated extension of Soviet power into the region and it is now capable of extending its influence in every part of the world. 
The next is: 
The Soviets have never made any secret of the fact that detente does not mean ideological co-existence, nor does it mean not supporting wars of national liberation. 
The final statement reads: 
The United States is the only nation with the power and influence and, we trust, will provide a credible matching presence. 
That refers to the Indian Ocean. Can the Minister tell us which senator made those statements, and when? 
I regret that  Senator Harradine  is under the impression that there has been some collusion to prevent him from speaking. I wish to assure him, in line with the assurance given by the Manager of Opposition Business,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, that that is not the case. Because the allegation is serious, I wish to make the situation clear to honourable senators.  Senator Harradine  was to have spoken today in the Budget debate and would, in the normal course of events, have done so were it not for the discussion of the matter of public importance on which the urgency motion was put down today and which, under Standing Orders took precedence. That meant that  Senator Harradine  and other senators who would otherwise have spoken today on the Budget are left in the position where they will have to wait until debate on the Budget is resumed at a later date. Any talk of collusion is absolutely wrong. I hope that the honourable senator will realise that nothing in this motion affects in any way what is happening in the Senate today or the possibility of his speaking in the Senate this evening. He is quite mistaken. I regret that he has gained that impression. I hope it is now clear to him that any suggestion of collusion is simply a figment of his imagination. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and follows an Opposition senator's question yesterday about the Liberal Party leadership. In the light of reports that the Labor Caucus has taken away from the Leader of the Australian Labor Party the power to sack Ministers unless he has the approval of two of the other 3 leaders in the 
Senate and the House of Representatives and that such sackings are subject to subsequent Caucus approval, I ask the Minister whether the Government is considering any similar restrictions on the Prime Minister, or do the Government and the Government parties trust the elected Leader of the Liberal Party to determine the composition of the Ministry? 
There are probably three of four people listening who do not understand the rules under which this debate shall proceed. The first rule is that there is a limited period for debate- a period of 3 hours. The Opposition has put forward this matter of urgency and, needless to say, has put forward a full slate of speakers to support its motion. If  Senator Harradine  thinks this matter is so important I suggest that he use the procedures of the Senate to bring forward his own matter of urgency instead of trying to ride on the back of the Opposition. 
We will wait and see. 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen the report in the  Age  newspaper of today 's date alleging that there has been 7 weeks delay in the distribution of allowances under the National Employment and Training scheme to migrant students taking English courses at La Trobe University? The article also claims a history of delays in 7 previous courses at the same university. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the report is true? What system is followed in making such payments? If there are difficulties, can the system be examined with a view to removing them in the future? 
-Has the Minister for Administrative Services studied the legislation on the disclosure of campaign contributions to political parties which was introduced into the Parliament by the previous Government? Can he say whether the $ 100 a plate dinner being held at the Parmelia Hotel in Perth by the Australian Labor Party to raise campaign funds would have been within the terms of the Labor legislation? Would that legislation have required a disclosure of the names of guests at the dinner and, more importantly, whether any of the $100 payments came from trade union funds paid by hard working trade unionists to keep their leaders in the style to which they are becoming accustomed? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister seen a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of yesterday's date under the heading Why Ford Can't Fill Jobs After 5 Weeks of Ads'? The report indicates that the Ford Motor Company has had considerable difficulty in obtaining labour notwithstanding an active recruiting campaign. Can the Minister say whether the Government is aware of this situation? Do similar problems exist with respect to other employers? Has any study been made of the extent to which employers cannot obtain labour? How does this situation tie in with the still worrying high level of unemployment in Australia? 
I rise as the last Government  speaker  on this motion of urgency following a thoughtful contribution by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  That contribution, however, demonstrated quite clearly why honourable senators on the Government side are not able to vote in favour of this motion of urgency because the speech by  Senator Wriedt  made it quite clear that he was not complaining about the conduct of the Commonwealth Government in any way. He made a number of statements which were, to his credit, a clear indication that the Opposition was not suggesting that there had been excesses by the Commonwealth Government. He made it quite clear that the present Government could not be said to have exercised power in violation of civil rights. He also made it quite clear that in his view as far as he knew the Federal authorities involved in the Cedar Bay incident had acted in good faith. Yet we have before us a motion of urgency which refers generally to the erosion of civil liberties in Australia, and it goes on to make particular reference to the State of Queensland. 
In the 10 months or so that this Government has been in power there has in fact been a series of actions by the Government which has led to an extension of civil liberties in Australia- an enforcing of civil liberties- and that of course is what one would expect from a government which is based on a philosophy of looking after the individual. We constantly express our belief in the individual and it would be quite wrong if we did not by our legislation and by our administrative acts do everything we could to buttress the freedom of the individual. 
I would like in the brief time available to me in this debate to touch on some of the contributions that have already been made on individual freedom in Australia. I would like to refer also to the speech made by  Senator Button  who I think at least made some attempt to deal with some of the issues that have concerned this Senate in the past, but I was extremely puzzled by some of his statements. For example, he tried to say: 'Well, most of what has been done can be credited to the previous Government'. He was accusing the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. He said that we dragged our feet when we were in opposition and delayed what the previous Government tried to achieve. I think it is far too easy to forget, to gloss over and to confuse just what the then Opposition did when it had the numbers in this place and was able to block legislation when the then Government did bring forward legislation in the field of civil liberties. I remind the Senate that when the previous Government introduced the Administrative Appeals Tribunal legislation which established the Administrative Appeals Tribunal it gave that Tribunal no jurisdiction. It was only when the Opposition brought forward amendments- and the amendments were put forward by the late  Senator Greenwood-  that jurisdiction actually to hear complaints was given to that Tribunal. Honourable senators should recall, and the public of Australia should recall, that what the then Government offered was a toothless tiger- a tribunal with no jurisdiction, and it was the Liberal-Country Party Opposition that gave it jurisdiction. 
Reference was made by Opposition speakers to the Family Law Bill as being a measure of the previous Government. How quickly Opposition supporters gloss over the fact that that was a non-Party measure on which there was extensive non-partisan support for the Bill. It was not dealt with as a Government measure. Honourable senators should remember and should tell the public when it is mentioned in debates like this that that Bill resulted largely from the bipartisan work of a Senate committee. 
I now refer to the Racial Discrimination Bill. I remind the Senate of the Opposition's attitude to that Bill. It was supported by the Opposition. Certainly it was amended, but I recall that  Senator Walsh,  one of the more virulent critics of the then Opposition, now the Government, made it quite clear in his speech- in fact he quite embarrassed me because it was just before I was to speak- that I would be supporting the Bill. Of course I was supporting the Bill because the Opposition was supporting the Bill. The Racial Discrimination Bill was passed with Opposition support although we did introduce some amendments which I believe improved it. 
Where did we drag our feet? Was it in the human rights legislation? I have heard Labor campaigners in Western Australia attack Liberal-Country Party senators for blocking the human rights Bill. I remind the Senate that the legislation was never brought forward by the then Government. So I ask honourable senators opposite to produce an example of where the Opposition did anything to hold back legislation which was in favour of civil liberties. In fact, the legislation which was brought forward by the previous Government was improved by the then Opposition. It was made more effective, and I believe that the record speaks for itself. 
In respect of the achievements of the Government which I support- the Liberal-Country Party Government- a good number of achievements have already been mentioned by other honourable senators. I should like to remind the 
Senate of some of those achievements. I refer firstly to the field of legal aid. It is a field in which we are continually being told that we are not sincere and we are dismantling legal aid and all the rest, yet one never hears from the Opposition any concession or any agreement that in most of the States of Australia legal aid under the Labor Government, although greatly expanded, became considerably confused. There was a multiplicity of agencies dealing with legal aid. We had a Federal office, State offices and professional organisations administering legal aid. The classic problem arises that people who are seeking social welfare and seeking assistance really do not know where they should go. A series of services are being offered and there is great confusion and a great deal of administrative waste and overlap. 
What has this Government done? It has continued to fund existing legal aid organisations. In fact, it has increased funding by 25 per cent but the critical action we have taken is to enter into close negotiations with the States to endeavour to establish a single legal aid organisation in each State which will be able to deal with all of the problems that individuals have which affect their civil liberties. Therefore, we are moving towards a far more sensible system of legal aid and one which will more effectively deliver aid to those who need it. It is an area in which we have increased expenditure but, more importantly, we have moved towards a more sensible administration which will do away with the problems I have already mentioned. 
We have done precisely what we undertook to do before the general election in the field of privacy. We have referred that question to the Law Reform Commission- a body which was referred to with approval by  Senator Button  in his speech. I think that was one area in which  Senator Button  complimented the Government for what it had done. It is an area which is important to the civil liberties of Australians. It is a complex area and a difficult area. Who in this Senate can say that that was not the appropriate way to get a report on the basis of which a government could then act? 
We have had a very vexed problem in Australia with respect to the law of defamation. That is a matter which affects the civil liberties and perhaps, ultimately, the political liberties of Australians. What has happened there? Again, we have taken a constructive step and asked the Law Reform Commission to report to the Parliament on the question of defamation. If we can legislate for improvement in that area I think we will probably take the most important steps that can be taken to increase freedom in Australia. 
We have carried on the proposal which I concede was originally put forward in this Parliament by the previous Government for the establishment of an ombudsman. We have legislation before the Parliament now to establish an ombudsman. There will be an ombudsman for Federal matters and deputy ombudsman for the Australian Capital Territory and for the Northern Territory to deal with State-type matters in those Territories. Does the Opposition complain about our action in that regard? That legislation is to come forward and I am sure it will receive the unanimous approval of this Senate. 
We have proceeded to establish the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Personnel have been appointed to that Tribunal and a man of great legal eminence has been appointed as its Chairman. Once again, we have the clearest possible demonstration that this Government is serious about advancing the individual freedom and the rights of Australians. We have picked up the very difficult question of freedom of information. The interdepartmental committee has been reestablished and we are hoping that we will be able to bring forward freedom of information legislation. We have actually taken measures to remove the stigma of illegitimacy. That is a practical step taken by this Government on its own initiative. I regard that as a matter which enhances the civil liberties of Australians. We have picked up the vexed and contentious issue of homosexual law reform. It is scarcely the action of a conservative government not concerned with the civil liberties of Australians when, in its first year of government, it introduced an ordinance into the territories for which it is responsible to decriminalise homosexual acts between consenting and unrelated adults in private. It is a worthwhile reform and a positive step in advancing civil liberties taken by this Government. 
This Government has taken positive steps to examine the question of sexual discrimination. Once again, honourable senators opposite might ask why we have not done more than simply take steps. I simply say again: It is a difficult area as is the area of human rights. The Labor AttorneyGeneral introduced 3 different Bills dealing with human rights and was still not able to produce a Bill that he was prepared to proceed with in this Parliament. When I discussed the question of a sex discrimination Bill with the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby-  a Labor appointee and a man who I would have thought had general support on the other side of the chamber- he told me that he was extremely doubtful that at this stage we should be proceeding in that field because of the very great difficulties which are involved. I say that there are many areas to which this Government can point with considerable pride where it can show that it is steadily advancing the civil liberties of people around Australia. I think that the Opposition in bringing forward a motion which  Senator Wriedt  made clear is in fact narrowly based on particular events in one particular State in Australia, has tried to tar this Government with a brush in a way in which it simply does not deserve. If I am proud of anything about this Government, I am proud of the way that it has done so much in so short a time to look after the individual freedom of Australians. As I am the last  speaker  on the list, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
-by leave-By arrangement between the Whips in the Senate  Senator James  McClelland will not vote in divisions during the 3 sitting days this week to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Greenwood. 
My question  is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has she seen a report in the  West Australian  of 27 October of an incident in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, in which an Aboriginal man was set upon and sprayed with white paint by 3 white men? Can the Minister have inquiries made to ascertain what action is being taken by the Western Australian police in this matter? If satisfactory action has not been taken or is not being taken would the Minister not agree that this is a case with unfortunate racial overtones? Will she ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to refer the matter to the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations for investigation and possible action under the Racial Discrimination Act. 
I address a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I remind him of the recent public discussion in Western Australia about the development and improvement of the city of Perth. I refer to the key site occupied by Padbury building in Forrest Place which is under the control of the Commonwealth. Various proposals from time to time have envisaged the incorporation of that site in the development plans for the northern part of the city. I ask the Minister to advise, if he can, what the Government's intentions are with respect to that site. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister on Federal Affairs to a statement, reported in the  West Australian  yesterday, by the  President  of the State School Teachers Union,  Mr Bennett,  in which he said, among other things, that the setting up of a committee of inquiry into Australian education was merely a token gesture towards youth unemployment. It is reported that he also said that because of real cutbacks in finances provided to the States no State government had the necessary funds to tackle the problem effectivelythe problem being youth unemployment. Are those statements accurate? Can the Minister comment on them? 
I think  Senator McAuliffe  has just put a most unfortunate interpretation on the comments of  Senator Baume.  I rise because I think that  Senator Baume  went to considerable pains to isolate a particular area of complaint and to distinguish one particular Aboriginal Legal Aid Service from all of the others that are functioning around Australia. That was quite clear to me, and I wonder whether  Senator McAuliffe  was intentionally or unintentionally misunderstanding the points which have been put before the Senate. I wish to speak on this particular item of the appropriations, simply to put the record straight in regard to what  Senator Baume  has been putting before the Senate, which is a particular problem. To suggest that that problem arose as a result of the inability of an Aboriginal person to understand the regulations simply flies in the face of the fact that other Aboriginal legal aid offices all around Australia manage to cope quite adequately with the regulations which apply and are able to function within the regulations of the Government, which are very reasonable requirements. There is no problem. We happen to have one person who is standing out against the proper regulations in regard to the spending of government money. 
I regard this problem as one which will in fact grow over the next few years. The fact remains that while there has been a vast expansion of the Aboriginal legal aid service over the last few years, there are still substantial areas which are not covered. I can speak with some experience of this. Years ago when we founded the Aboriginal legal aid service in Western Australia we received no government grant at all. I well remember our first application for Government assistance which was for the sum of $8,000. Of course, in today's terms that is a laughable amount. I note that the budgeted amount for the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in Western Australia this year is some $570 000. In the space of four or five years the expenditure has increased from nothing to $8,000 to something over $500 000. Yet in the context of Western Australia, a State of 1 million square miles with a very large Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, there are still some quite notable areas which remain without an adequate Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. 
We have managed, with the grants that have come from the previous Government and the present Government, to establish Aboriginal Legal Aid Service offices in Perth, Narrogin, Kalgoorlie, Carnarvon, Port Hedland, Kununurra, Laverton and now in Derby. I think that is probably the last office to be opened. But I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that some substantial centres of Aboriginal population in Western Australia- Meekatharra, Geraldton, Roebourne, Kellerberrin and Albany- at this stage are still without the direct services of any representatives of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. I certainly suggest to honourable senators that that is a pity. I would hope, if it is not possible this year for the Government to see its way clear to increase expenditure in this area, that next year it may be able to increase the grant to the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service to enable it to open additional offices. Those honourable senators who are concerned about the expenditure of public moneys in this area will be interested to know that in the year 1975-76 there was a drop of 25 per cent in the prison population of Western Australia. I think that quite a deal of that drop can be attributed to the fact that for the first time in many generations the Aborigines in Western Australia were in many cases receiving adequate legal representation and hence were not languishing in the prisons of Western Australia. But still a very substantial proportion of the prison population in Western Australia is Aboriginal. Still there are many individual cases of injustice that will continue to occur for a combination of reasons. The operation of a substantial and well-run highly professional competent service assisted by good Aboriginal field officers is essential to the advancement of the Aboriginal people in my State of Western Australia. I commend the Government for the fact that it not only has continued to fund the service; it also has given increased funds, as I understand it, to the Service. But we have merely begun to bear this burden. I hope that we will see substantial increases in these appropriations in future years. 
I also want to delay the Senate very briefly, partly because one of the matters raised by  Senator Coleman  was a matter that I raised in the Senate earlier this week, but mainly because I think that raising these matters, although they are important and I agree that they should be brought before the public and before the Parliament, can lead one to overlook some of the other aspects of what is happening in the community. I would like to mention some of the rather more heartening things which I found in Kalgoorlie last week in the field about which  Senator Coleman  was talking. I would like to mention the work of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service and a conversation I had with  Mr Greg  Mclntyre, a young lawyer who has been appointed to that area recently. He is covering a very large area of Western Australia in the eastern gold fields. One of the notable things he told me was how pleased he was with the extensive co-operation he was getting from the police. As one who, in support of  Senator Cavanagh,  has complained in this chamber about police activities in the eastern gold fields, I note that in this area in which, with extensive Commonwealth subsidy, the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service is operating there are real signs of progress and change. I think that also ought to be noted in the Senate. 
Mention was made by  Senator Coleman  of the Little Sisters of the Poor and the shelter that organisation runs in Kalgoorlie. Again it is worthy of note that a small group of very devoted people- members of a religious order and one secular priest- operate a 24-hour service in a building which was built with Commonwealth funds and which attracts a Commonwealth subsidy. I visited that place, as obviously  Senator Coleman  did. I can only say to those honourable senators who expressed an interrest in this subject that it would be useful for them to visit such places and to see how unpaid people, working under extremely difficult conditions which I doubt I could stand for three or four days let alone for years as these people have done, are working in a way which directly is improving the welfare of the homeless and the itinerant Aborigines of the eastern gold fields. 
I mention these matters to the Senate merely because, whilst I abhor and am saddened by the sorts of matters raised by  Senator Coleman,  I think it would be a pity if we did not also acknowledge that there are areas of real progress and that the hundreds of millions of dollars currently being spent in the field of Aboriginal welfare is in fact achieving some results. That should not be overlooked because if it is the people of 
Australia will become sick of what is becoming a very expensive exercise and I believe that they ought not to become sick of it because real progress is being made. 
Is the Minister for Science able to say what research is being carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or other bodies in Australia aimed at ensuring the most efficient use of superphosphate by farmers and the development of substitutes for superphosphate? Will the Minister make a statement to the Parliament on this subject, which is of fundamental importance to primary producers in Australia? 
-I seek leave to make a statement relating to voting arrangements. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. My question refers to vocational officers and assistant vocational officers concerned with finding employment for Aboriginals- these officers are employed by the Commonwealth Employment Service in Western Australia- and to the vehicles provided for their use. I ask the Minister: Are further such officers to be appointed to reduce the excessive level of unemployment amongst Aboriginals in Western Australia? I remind the Minister that the present Government reduced the availability of vehicles to such officers when it took office although restrictions were lifted in May. What vehicles were made available to such officers in December 1975? What vehicles are now available? Are there any restrictions applying to their use which were not applicable in December 1975? 
A quite unnecessary air of mystery seems to be developing about this matter. Of course, that is something to which the Committee to which the amendment refers- the Standing . Orders Committee- can direct its attention. I, would think that it is worth saying briefly to the chamber at this stage that if the document was tabled and sent off to the Government Printer it would seem to me that, in the normal course, a proof would be returned and any working on the document thereafter would be on the proof and not on the original tabled document. I do not know that  Senator Cavanagh  was meaning to suggest that there was anything strange in the fact that the tabled document did not appear to have alterations made, but it seems to me that any such suggestion does not help us at all. 
I would think that the Committee to which the amendment refers will need access to the Government Printer who, no doubt, will explain that the normal procedures relating to the publication of a book are followed. The Government Printer may well produce successive proofs, each of which will bear the sorts of corrections that an author normally makes in the course of the production of a final manuscript. I make those comments, although they may be terribly obvious and self-evident, merely to put them on the record. It does seem to me that many of the difficulties raised by  Senator Cavanagh  during the past few minutes are really explicable in those terms and ought not be greatly concerning the Senate. Of course, I support the amendment put forward by the Leader ofthe Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I have no doubt that a committee examination of the facts will arrive very quickly at the procedures which have been followed and that the documents will disclose quite clearly what alterations have been made to any proofs. 
-by leave- By agreement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Coleman  will not vote in divisions on sitting days this week to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Greenwood. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen a report in the  Daily Telegraph  of 16 November that it was alleged in the police court at Ryde on the previous day that a striking builder's labourer had been paid $150 a week to demonstrate at 'black' building sites? 
The statement was reported to have been made that the labourer was paid by the Builders Labourers Union to attend demonstrations and received $150 a week. I ask the Minister: If the report is correct, is this use of union funds, which presumably were paid by workers as union dues, to employ a person for the disruption of employment within the law? Does the Government have any control over such practices or is it an area in which it is left to the rank and file of a particular union to discipline the management of the union which is spending their funds in such an extraordinary way. 
-by leave- By arrangement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Cavanagh  will not vote in divisions this week to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Greenwood.  I simply say that should the replacement for  Senator Greenwood  arrive in the Senate in the meantime, of course that arrangement will be subject to revision. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is in part pre-empted by the question just asked by  Senator Button.  I ask the Minister: Can he advise the Senate whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission budget for 1976-77, which was approved by the Government, included any allowance for increases in wages of employees of the Commission during that year? If it did not, is the effect of quarterly Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decisions to impose costs on the ABC for which no provision has been made in the Budget, resulting in a need to prune budgeted activity? The last part of my question is really the point  Senator Button  raised- whether there was any approach to the Government on this point and whether the Government had made any decision- and that of course has been answered. 
-by leave- By arrangement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Melzer  will not vote in divisions today or tomorrow, to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Greenwood. 
I trust that my speech, like that of  Senator Ryan,  will be relatively brief, but I would say that that will be the only point of comparison between the 2 speeches. Unlike  Senator Ryan,  I am not at all worried about saying that I am extremely proud of the fact that this Bill is before the Parliament. I would say to her that there are moments of satisfaction in being in the Senate. There are occasions when legislation comes before us which does represent a contribution to the improvement of the lot of Australians in a particularly important way. 
In my short time in the Senate there has been a number of occasions when, as this evening, I have been pleased to rise and support legislationoften it has been legislation introduced by the Australian Labor Party and on other occasions it has been legislation introduced by the Government of which I am a supporterwhich I think is extremely significant. This is probably the most significant item that I have seen the Senate deal with. The sort of matters to which I am referring include the Racial Discrimination Bill, the Administrative Appeals Bill, the Family Law Bill and the Ombudsman Bill, which we dealt with just a few days ago. I believe that it is an unfortunate by-product of Party politics in Australia that the debate tends to obscure the fact that in measures such as this there is a large degree of bipartisan support which reflects the bipartisan support that exists in the community itself for certain sorts of social progress. That bipartisan satisfaction is not something of which we should be ashamed. 
I think it is important that the Australian community sees that on both sides of this Parliament there is a commitment to Aboriginal land rights and that the differences which exist between the Government and the Opposition are differences as to matters which are round the edges and matters of detail, but there are substantial areas of agreement and I do not believe that we serve the country well if we seek to disguise those substantial areas of agreement. I would also say that this is an area, as with any delicate area, where there is room for honest differences of opinion. I certainly do not claim a monopoly of goodwill on this side of the chamber, but I do not think that it is fair either for the Opposition to suggest that there is in the measures which the Government has put forward any lack of goodwill or any lack of a real determination to find the most adequate solution to a very real problem. 
I acknowledge the contribution which the Australian Labor Party has made in this field. I do not need to document it chapter and verse.  Senator Robertson,  in a very careful and measured speech, a good deal of which I might disagree with but the presentation and content of which left nothing to be desired, set out at some length the particular things that have been done by the Labor Party over the years to advance the cause of land rights. I, in turn, would like to acknowledge a few other people who I think have made significant contributions in this field. 
As far as I know,  Mr Justice  Blackburn has not been mentioned in this debate. Yet I think that the manner in which  Mr Justice  Blackburn handled the Nabalco land case- although of course he eventually made a finding which was adverse to those claiming a native title or an Aboriginal title- and the judgment which he set out did a lot to educate people in the community to the fact that there really is a relationship between the Aboriginal people and the land they occupy. 
I for one am grateful to  Mr Justice  Blackburn for the very great care he took in preparing that judgment, for the careful way in which he set it out and for the contribution which he has made to broadening the understanding by the Australian community of the Aboriginal relationship to land. 
I would also like to acknowledge the contribution of  Mr Justice  Woodward, who was given a commission by the Labor Government in 1973 to report upon the appropriate means to recognise and establish the traditional rights and interests of the Aborigines in and in relation to land and to satisfy in other ways the reasonable aspirations of the Aborigines to rights in or in relation to land. I think it would be churlish not to acknowledge once again that the care with which the problem was tackled did a great deal to advance the understanding in the community of the very real need to establish land rights. I think it is very significant that as soon as the report was put down by  Mr Justice  Woodward it received bipartisan support from the parties in the Parliament. 
It is well known to all honourable senators present that when the report was put down the then Government very quickly advised that it accepted the report in principle and the leaders of the National Country Party of Australia and the Liberal Party of Australia m the Parliament also indicated very quickly that they, too, intended to support the general thrust of the Woodward report. One ought to acknowledge that in all spheres of the political system in Australia there was an immediate reaction to the report that  Mr Justice  Woodward put down. Thereafter it became a matter of argument over detail and about the precise means of implementation. But since  Mr Justice  Woodward's report there has been basically no real argument in Australia against the establishment of Aboriginal land rights. That, I think, is a great tribute to the quality of the work done by  Mr Justice  Woodward. 
I would also like to record that I think the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition during that period was well served by  Mr Bob  Ellicott as its spokesman on Aboriginal Affairs.  Mr Ellicott  has been criticised in the present debate. But as one who worked with  Mr Ellicott  in the Party committees, I believe that he brought a very great depth of sympathy and understanding to the questions relating to Aborigines that came before the coalition Parties during that time and I believe that he made an immense personal contribution. It is only over one issue that there tends to be a concentration of criticism and comment and his general contribution during our period in 
Opposition has tended to be overlooked. It is perhaps significant that  Mr Ellicott  was counsel for the Commonwealth in the Gove land rights case. I am sure that the understanding which he gained during his presentation of the Commonwealth 's case in that suit had done a great deal for the present Government Parties in increasing their understanding of the Aborigines. 
The other person I would like to mention is my colleague  Senator Neville  Bonner. In the chronology of the events which have led up to this Bill, it should be remembered that  Senator Bonner  moved in this Senate a motion which was passed unanimously, with the support of all parties, and which is mentioned in the report of the Senate committee which has been referred to in the debate.  Senator Bonner's  motion, which was endorsed by us all, stated: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this enure nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
I think  Senator Bonner  has cause for considerable personal satisfaction, whatever  Senator Ryan  might have said to the contrary, in the fact that this is a first step in that direction. I am not one who would pretend that it is the final step. But we are not legislating in this chamber for a final solution; we are legislating for a step which is a very significant step. I think that  Senator Bonner  can look at his resolution and say that, with respect to those Aborigines who have maintained a traditional tie to the land, we are fulfilling the demand which he made on us and which we endorsed in the Senate. It would be my personal hope that we in the Government Parties would direct our attention in the future to further steps we might take to live up to  Senator Bonner's  resolution. I refer to the fact that our Parties' policy is to set up certain funds which will be used for the benefit of Aborigines. My personal view- I stress that it is a personal view- is that we ought to try to get Government assistance to Aborigines on to the basis that it is regarded as something received as compensation for the dispossession of the Aboriginal people. I believe that we will make further steps and that the Aboriginal people will not be disappointed by the performance of this Government. 
I thank the Government for the technique that it adopted with respect to this Bill, I, for one, thought that the Bill introduced earlier this year was unsatisfactory in a number of respects. A good number of the unsatisfactory aspects have been referred to already in debate. The fact is that the Government put a Bill before the House of Representatives and made it clear that it wished to listen to the people of Australia, including the Aboriginal people of Australia and all those other people who had an interest, before it determined the final shape of the legislation that it would put forward. I commend that method of dealing with difficult legislation to this Government and to any government that succeeds it. The fact of the matter is that the people of Australia generally, including the Aboriginal people, have had ample opportunity now to put views before the Government. I think that even the most churlish critic of the Government would agree that the criticisms and the views which have been put forward have resulted in a great strengthening of the BUI. It has been improved in substantial respects. I am delighted with the changes that have been made. The work that has been done within the Government Parties has been hard work by individuals who have been concerned with the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Again I pay tribute to  Senator Bonner,  who at all times has been a great strength, as far as I am concerned, in seeing that the Bill has been improved in significant respects. I acknowledge his contribution to the changes that have been made. 
I would like to refer to a number of the specific aspects of the Bill in respect of which changes have been made and on which criticisms have been voiced. I also would like to pick up a very valuable point that was made by  Senator Robertson  in his contribution to the debate. He drew attention to the fact-with respect, he was far more constructive than  Senator Ryan  was in her comments in a similar field- that what we are trying to do here is to bring within European law something that is not part of European law.  Mr Justice  Blackburn in his judgment refers to the Aborigines' relationship to land which has no comparison, no parallel, in our law. Yet we in this Parliament are being asked somehow to produce a statute which will protect that interest which is not part of our legal or historical tradition. By 'our legal or historical tradition' I mean the imported legal and historical tradition that has made the shape of the laws of this country. I think that  Senator Robertson  was right when he suggested, in effect, that this Bill proposed or provided an umbrella under which the traditional native title, the traditional Aboriginal title, could survive, exist, develop and change. 
A very important point to which he drew attention is that the traditional title is not necessarily a fixed or immutable thing. It can be fluid. It can change. If we tried in this Bill in our legal terms to tie down Aboriginal title to some fixed sphere, then I believe that we would make a serious error. What we have tried to do in this Bill - I think it is flexible enough to permit it- is to ensure that what the Aborigines themselves say is their title can be allowed to continue to exist. It is possible, of course, that there will be difficulties under this structure in ensuring that that happens. There are many people in this chamber who are concerned about that aspect of the legislation. No one is more concerned than  Senator Kilgariff,  who made a contribution to this debate which was based, as he told us, on 46 years in the Northern Territory. I believe that he put a genuine point of view which relates to the real problem of the traditional Aboriginal land owner asserting his position against a structure which is imposed by our law.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  please do not interpret these remarks as an attack on the concept of the land councils. I support the concept of the land councils as a very important part of the Bill and the framework that the Government is seeking to establish. I believe that it will be terribly important that the land councils respect the traditional Aboriginal owners who are operating under their purview. 
I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that it is the Government's proposal that there should be an all-party committee of both Houses to examine certain aspects of this BUI with a view to reporting to the Parliament to make sure that if there are difficulties we can amend the legislation. Notice of motion concerning the committee will be given later tonight, I think. One of the things about which the committee will be concerned is possible problems relating to the identification of traditional owners of Aboriginal land and the means of establishing the views of such owners to the satisfaction of the relevant land council. All that may sound like a bit of legal gobbledegook, but all it means is that we as members of Parliament cannot simply pass this Bill and forget it. We are committed to a continuing examination to make sure that the traditional owners in fact are protected under the structures we are seeking to provide for them in accordance with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward. 
I welcome particularly the Government's strengthening of the role of land councils. I thought that the original proposal which was put forward very tentatively by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his original second reading speech, for some of the work to be entrusted to the Aboriginal Legal Service, was impractical. I make that comment as a former member of the Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia and as a great respecter of those organisations around Australia. I did not believe that the Aboriginal Legal Service was the appropriate body to be entrusted with this work. I welcome the fact that the councils have been given an expanded role in aiding the Aboriginal people rather than the Aboriginal Legal Service being given responsibility in that area. 
No area of the Bill is more critical than the provisions with respect to rnining. On my reading of the Woodward report, I believe that the amended provisions now in the Bill are consistent with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward. They certainly meet my ideas of what is fair. I would like to quote from the Woodward Commission report. In paragraph 708 of the second report, firstly  Mr Justice  Woodward recommended: 
Minerals and petroleum on Aboriginal lands should remain the property of the Crown. 
That, of course, is the position under the Bill. Secondly, he said: 
However Aborigines should have the right to prevent exploration for them on their traditional lands. 
That is the position under the Bill. Thirdly, he said: 
This Aboriginal power of veto should only be over-ridden if, in the opinion of the Government, the national interest requires it. 
That is the position under the Bill. Fourthly, he said: 
Any such decision of the Government should be subject to disallowance by either House of the Parliament. 
Again that is the position under the Bill. The criticism which has been made is that there are situations where consent will not be required. There are specific matters dealt with in the Bill which provide that consent will not be required, merely agreement as to fair terms. Once again I turn to the report of  Mr Justice  Woodward, in the same paragraph sub-paragraph (xx). He said: 
All existing rights of mining and petroleum companies will be preserved by the new legislation- 
That was his draft- 'all existing rights of rnining and petroleum companies will be preserved'. I quote that paragraph only in part, but the rest does not take from what I have quoted. That is the important distinction that has been made by the Government. Where there is an existing right this legislation will not retroactively remove that right but where there is not an existing right the Aboriginal people will preserve a right of veto over the mining of their land. That is a major victory, I believe, for the Aboriginal people and I believe it is a very proper provision to be included in this Bill. I must say, if I may be permitted to make a personal comment, that I was delighted that a member of the Labor Party chose to incorporate into the  Hansard  of the House of Representatives my letter on that subject to the newspapers. 
One other matter I want to deal with is this very vexed question of the Northern Territory legislation. Here is an area in which reference has been made to a Senate committee report and all of us here are familiar with that report. This is a vexed and difficult area. I remind the Senate of the fact that we are not merely passing a law which will operate in a vacuum. We are passing a law which is to operate in the Northern Territory and I believe that subject to the proper protection of Aboriginal rights it is proper that the people of the Northern Territory should through their Legislative Assembly have some say in the way the law operates in the Northern Territory. I believe that there is a conflict there. There is a problem which government had to face and had to solve. To my mind the way government has faced it and has solved it is more than adequate and I for one will have no difficulty in supporting the Government 's provisions in this regard. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that specific rights in all these areas of subordinate legislation have been written into the Bill and there are provisions covering many of the major areas of concern. The Bill specifically provides where and how the Northern Territory legislature may legislate. In addition to that we have the clearest possible statement from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the Commonwealth Government,  Mr Viner,  that the Territory legislation will be worked out in consultation with Aboriginals with  Mr Viner's  involvement, and with his agreement. I stress that it has to be with bis agreement. I believe that that is a proper approach both from the point of view of this Government which has responsibilities to the Aboriginal people and in respect of the Northern Territory legislature which has responsibility to its electors. I remind the Senate that the Northern Territory is commencing a new era of constitutional development. It is unfair to aim at the representatives of the Northern Territory in the Legislative Assembly criticism on the basis of what has happened in the past because executive power in the Northern Territory in the past has been vested in the Federal Government. If anyone wants to complain about what has happened in the Northern Territory in the past it is simply not good enough to blame the Legislative Assembly. He must blame the Federal governments of the day. 
We are moving on to a stage where some executive power is to be transferred to the Northern Territory. It is a new era in the Northern Territory. I do not believe that we can ignore that fact or the fact that the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory live with white people in the Northern Territory. It should be our aim to ensure that as much as possible they are subject to the same laws, the same legislation, that they are one people and one part of Australia. I would, however, for the benefit of those who are concerned again draw attention to the remarks of  Mr Viner  in the House of Representatives on 1 7 September 1 976 when he pointed out:   the Government is also concerned to see that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is involved in the operation of the Commonwealth's legislation in the interests of harmony, and not confrontation, between all people of the Northern Territory. 
He also said that the Government will not fail in its responsibilities. As the back-up to those provisions I again draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that we propose that the Joint Committee on which the Opposition will have nearly an equal voice should have the specific responsibility of examining on behalf of this Parliament the operations of the provisions of the laws of the Northern Territory relating to entry to Aboriginal land, the protection of sites of significance, wild life conservation and entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land. So the fact of the matter is that this Parliament is not stepping back from its responsibilities. It wants to see those responsibilities exercised by a harmonious partnership between the Legislative Assembly and this Parliament. It has preserved unto itself the responsibility for making sure that what should happen does happen. It is to have a committee of this Parliament on which the Opposition will be represented to ensure that that is so. I say to the Opposition that in this total package of what might be termed the issue of the subordinate legislation very great care has been taken to ensure that there is no stepping back from our responsibilities. 
I have almost reached the magic minute that  Senator Ryan  reached and I undertook not to speak longer than she did. I close by saying that I think it ought to be on the record of this Parliament that the Bill as it is now before us is a conscientious attempt to meet the very varied views which exist in the community as to the final form of this legislation. I pay tribute to the work of the Minister who I think has managed to reconcile what I would have thought was almost irreconcilable. I pay tribute to Neville Bonner for his assiduous attention to this matter over the months that it had been before this Parliament. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to a decision of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, of which I was advised by letter dated 25 May 1976, that  Mr G.  O. Stewart and his family could enter Australia as permanent residents.  Mr Stewart  is still awaiting the processing of his application. Can the Minister explain the reason for this 6 months delay which is causing great personal hardship to  Mr Stewart  and great distress to his relatives in Australia? 
I want to make a brief contribution to this debate simply to express regret at the extremely divisive approach which is being adopted by Opposition senators. It is quite clear that in a calculated way attempts are being made to set black against white and black against black. This is quite pathetic. It is a great disservice to the community. I make that statement with great seriousness because I think that the judgment of the Government that traditional land should be dealt with under this Bill and that other claims should be dealt with under the general law is a reasonable approach. It does not involve debate of the sort we have just heard from  Senator Cavanagh.  I have expressed great admiration for 

 Senator Cavanagh in the past. I have supported him on occasions when he has been acting on behalf of Aborigines. But I believe the remarks he has just made are not relevant to this clause. They are simply a device which will set people in the Northern Territory against each other. I regret this. I hope the debate might be able to proceed without such contributions. 
I would like to make some brief additional comment to that made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  If the words which  Senator Cavanagh  has suggested be added are taken at face value the amendment is not necessary. The fact is that the clause as it stands gives preference to Aboriginal communities or groups interested in the land because it requires that the applicant should have greater hardship than they if he is to succeed. So Aborigines are in a preferred position. The difficulty with the Opposition's proposal is that the word paramount' primarily means 'supreme'. I simply agree with the view expressed by  Senator Wright  that if we were to put in the word 'paramount' we would probably make any arbitration totally meaningless because the decision could go only one way. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  The question is that the words proposed to be inserted be inserted. All those in favour say 'aye', all those against say 'no'. I think the 'noes' have it. 
 There is an element of misunderstanding in  Senator Cavanagh  's speech. The amendments moved and put through the Senate on the 
Government's initiative yesterday provide that there is an existing obligation to effect renewals and extensions under certain circumstances. It is the preservation of an existing legal obligation that is taken into account by the amendments; it is not the creation of fresh rights for which no legal right exists at present. 
I want to make a brief contribution following  Senator Melzer's  remarks. I think there is some misunderstanding on her part about the actual provisions of the Bill. It is only in those areas where there are existing rights that the consent provisions do not apply. In cases where exploration permits have expired, fresh consents would be required if exploration permits were to be granted over those areas. There are limited areas- details of them have been given and the honourable senator referred to them- over which the consent provisions are not applicable. The simple principle that is being followed, as I understand it, is that the Bill does not interfere with those rights that exist now. 
-That is not so. The whole tenor of the Bill is that Aboriginal rights take subject only to those rights which are presently in existence. That is perfectly in accordance with the section of the Woodward report I cited earlier in the debate. Sub-paragraph (xx) of paragraph 708 of that report states: 
All existing rights of mining and petroleum companies will be preserved by the new legislation . . . 
That principle has always been in the legislation. It has always been a Woodward recommendation.  Senator Melzer's  misunderstanding was that in those areas which at some prior time had been subject to exploration permits which had expired, there would be no need for the consent provisions to apply. If that is what she was saying, it is incorrect. 
-Has the Minister for Education had the opportunity of examining the report on poverty and education produced by the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty under  Dr Ronald  T. Fitzgerald which was tabled in the Senate this week? If he has examined it can he indicate whether the Government has made any decision with respect to the numerous detailed recommendations in the report relating to poverty and education? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency. The importance to the future of Australia of the continued development of the resources of the Pilbara area of Western Australia and the North- West Shelf. 
I am very pleased that I have had sufficient support in the Senate to be able to move this motion. I have noted that I needed the support of only 5 honourable senators and that I received the support of some 4 times that number. I should say that I was a little surprised to hear from the Opposition some complaint about the procedure that is being adopted. As a lawyer I have learned always to follow precedent. Last year I sat here and watched on 9 occasions the Opposition move motions of urgency, and I noticed that resourceful honourable senators from Tasmania on the other side of the chamber moved motions about Tasmania at what they thought were critical times. I thought that was a precedent I might well follow. 
I think it is important- I hope that I can explain to the Senate why it is- that what is happening in Western Australia at the moment and what is to happen over the next few years is not simply of significance to Western Australia but is of broader significance to the whole of Australia. I would go so far as to say that if any of the political ambitions of people in this chamber are to be met- I refer to members of the Opposition and to members of the Government- then they had better pay regard to the 2 States of Western Australia and Queensland, which I believe will provide the fuel which will permit the Australian machine to function and which will enable us to fulfil our general welfare and social ambitions for the country that we all represent. 
The fact of the matter is that we have in Australia a very interesting political situation. Everywhere I go throughout the State of Western Australia I find that there are demands for increased government expenditure. It is a very interesting phenomenon. I went to the eastern goldfields, for example, which is a place where people tend to be very independent and to believe that they should be independent and should stand on their own 2 feet and where, at the same time, they are asking for the extension of television and radio services, health services and education services. If one goes south from there to Esperance in the State of Western Australia one will find consistent demands for extension of television and radio services, which are not thought to be adequate for the people in that area. The holdup is, of course, simply one of expense. If one goes to the Pilbara area one will find demands for more roads- roads in that area are very expensive- and better communications. One will also find that there are demands not for less but for more Australian Broadcasting Commission programs. The people of the area want a second radio station, more television and so on. 
Throughout the metropolitan area one gets requests for more expenditure on education. One also gets resentment at the fact that people are now called upon to fund part of their medical care, yet there is a continuing demand for increased medical services. There is a demand right throughout Australia for increased child care facilities. Honourable senators opposite are vocal in the demands that they make on government for these facilities and they have widespread support in the community. People want these additional services. But the very odd thing is that contemporaneously the same people say that they want their taxes reduced. All round Australia there is a demand for a reduction in taxation. People say that their incentive is being destroyed, that too much of their income is being taken from them and that they therefore cannot make their own decisions. I think that the demand for reduced taxation comes from the same people as those who want an increase in the provision of government services. 
I would also like to refer to the expectations of Australians generally. It has become a truism that Australia is a wealthy country. That has been translated to mean that we can therefore afford whatever we want. These are basic political facts that honourable senators opposite and those of us on this side, who support this Government, have to face. In my view those basic political facts lead to an inexorable conclusion: We simply have to have economic growth in Australia if we are to achieve our ambitions. Ours is a country which will meet its people 's expectations only if the economy continues to grow. So it becomes particularly footling to decry economic growth, as some members of the Opposition occasionally do, because if we decry economic growth we have to be prepared to reverse the expectations and demands of the community. We found in the last Government an attempt to govern without heed to that reality. There was a view that one could greatly increase government services without increasing taxation.  Mr Whitlam  's statement in that regard is well known: Taxes, in some miraculous way, would continue to grow. 
I refer honourable senators who are interested to the wonderful expose of the fallacies of that theory by the late Professor Downing in the George Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture at Sydney University in November 1974. I believe he exposed, in the simplest possible language and in the clearest possible way, that a gigantic trick was involved if it was thought that we could have these services without paying more tax. 
If it is accepted, as I certainly accept and as I believe the Government accepts, that the whole of Australia- not just Western Australia but the whole of Australia- requires economic growth if we are to succeed, then what areas hold out some reasonable promise of economic growth? I venture to say that no honourable senator really believes that the industries of the south-east corner of Australia are going to provide the massive growth that is required. Nobody would seriously suggest that the motor industry, important as it is as an employer- and may it continue to be important -is going to expand mightily and raise the standard of living of everybody around Australia. We hope that manufacturing industry will proceed to grow and become more healthy, but it does not represent great hopes for enormous expansion. The fact is that it is Queensland and Western Australia, with their potential for resource development, which will do the trick if the trick is to be done. 
Today I do not wish to talk about Queensland. The motion refers specifically to Western Australia, to the North-West Shelf and to the Pilbara. A great deal of the history of the development of the Pilbara is well known and does not need canvassing. It is generally known that some $2,000m worth of expansion in the Pilbara during the 1 960s completely changed the position of Australia's balance of payments. It greatly strengthened the Australian economy and gave us a much broader base on which to depend. Currently in the Pilbara, following that great expansion, there are further projects for secondary processing. Two companies, the Hamersley company and the Mount Newman company, have proposals. I think Hamersley is a little ahead of Mount Newman in its planning. Hamersley is to spend something like $375m over 2 years and Mount Newman is to spend about $240m. These companies are moving into secondary processing, picking up ore which currently is not usable or exportable and bringing it to a higher grade so that it will be useful. For the Hamersley project between 6000 and 8000 tons of fabricated steelwork will be constructed in Western Australia over the next 2 years in which a large number of firms will be involved. There is a great addition to the general prosperity of the community from which I come when this sort of thing happens. I emphasise that this is an addition to the prosperity not only of Western Australia but also of the whole of Australia. The Robe River company also plans expansion in the Pilbara, and at Telfer we have had a gold development of late. All these things come together to give hope for the future of the economy. 
Next to that we have the great prospects of the North- West Shelf of Western Australia. That project represents something as big as the iron ore development which has occurred already and rivals even such a great national project as the Snowy Mountains Authority. It is estimated that development of the North- West Shelf will cost somewhere between $2,000m and $2, 500m. A great deal of that money will be spent directly in Australia and will add greatly to employment and other opportunities. It will add greatly to our export income. It will give us an economy which is more stable and more productive, one in which there are far greater opportunities for Australians to get work. 
In all these things government has an important role, but to some extent government has a role of not interfering too much. We saw under the last Government the very great difficulties which arose when there was excessive government interference. Since we on this side came back to office in the Federal Government we have offered and provided tax incentives to development, and to mining in particular, which will ensure that many projects which were not viable under Labor will get off the ground. I have mentioned already projects which under Labor were stultified. The North- West Shelf is the classic example. With that sort of incentive and the framework of a government which favours free enterprise we have a situation where these developments can occur. 
Why is this a matter of urgency? I believe it is a matter of urgency because there is great concern around Australia about the state of the economy. There is a great desire in Australia to see the Australian economy grow and blossom and prosper. In my State of Western Australia where we have a State election coming up we face a real choice between the prospect of continuing enterprise, continuing expansion, and stultification. I believe that the election next Saturday therefore has a national significance, not only for those who are interested in development as development but also for all those who want to see better education, better social security, better health and better welfare. All these things are dependent on growth. 
The record of the Liberal State governments in Western Australia during the 60s, as I have already mentioned, is too well known to need repeating. The vast upsurge in mineral production in Western Australia is something which changed the whole face of that State. Over the last 3 years the Court Government has been greatly hampered by the fact that for two of those 3 years there has been a Labor Government in Canberra. That fetter and restriction has now gone. In the last 12 months we have seen the decision on the development of Agnew which is very significant for the eastern gold fields. We have seen the development at Teutonic Bore which is proceeding at present. We have seen the Pilbara expansions, which I have already referred to, announced and brought forward. All these things are happening at present. The basic point I wish to make to the Senate is that under a continuing Liberal Government in Western Australia all this can proceed, advance and improve, and the rest of us in Australia will be able to benefit accordingly. 
It might be said that the significance of a Labor government in the State of Western Australia is not much because, after all, all this will happen anyway. I would simply remind the Senate and anyone who asks that question that the Labor Party operates on a very structured basis. There is a constitutional link between the Labor Party and its parliamentary members. Where a policy is followed by the Federal Labor Party because it is the Party's policy, the same policy will apply to a State Labor government. I remind the Senate of the sort of things which were done by the Federal Labor Party before the Whitlam Labor Government was defeated and which put such a stopper on the sort of growth and development that I believe is essential. I remind the Senate that in October 1973  Mr Connor  announced the brilliant policy that the Government would take gas at the well head. He did not get round to telling the people who might produce the gas what he was prepared to pay for it or what the commercial prospects were for them. The Labor Government seemed to think that in those circumstances development would continue. Surely it is ludicrous to expect people to spend their money or to make the effort to produce something which the Government simply announces it will acquire at the wellhead when it says also that it will then make whatever decisions it likes about development. So I remind the Senate of the Connor approach to the Northwest Shelf, the Connor approach to petroleum generally, which slowed down the development of the North- West Shelf to the extent that in May 1975 the  Age  was reporting that the development of the North- West Shelf gas field had come to a standstill following  Mr Connor's  announcement last October that the Pipeline Authority would buy all gas at the wellhead. 
There are some simple facts available to show the trend of exploration on that field. In 1972 in excess of 15 000 kilometres of seismic work was done on the North- West Shelf. In 1973 there were 10 000 kilometres, in 1974 there were 10 000 kilometres, and in 1975 there were 1500 kilometres. Last year we saw the beginnings of a recovery and about 6000 kilometres of seismic work was done. That is significant because seismic exploration precedes the more detailed work, the drilling work which might be done. We have had the announcement that the State Government and the consortium which in on the North* West Shelf are now negotiating for an agreement. We are in a situation where this enormous project which will make such a significant difference to the balance of payments in Australia, to economic growth in Australia and to the standard of living in Australia, is at last moving  Out  of the shadows and into production. An attitude has been put forward by  Mr Keating,  the present Labor Party spokesman in this area. What does he say to hold out encouragement for development of this sort? I quote from a statement of 9 August 1976 which states: 

 Mr Keating said he wanted petroleum explorers to clearly understand that a future Labor Government will not look favourably in respect of production licences upon permit areas granted by the Western Australian Government after the date of the handing down of the decisions of the High Court on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. 
That means that producers are being told that they cannot rely upon leases granted by the State Government after the High Court decision which, of course, was handed down some time ago. What soft of an incentive is that for producers  to  get  Ofl  with the job and to pursue development? I think it is only the certainty that the previous Labor Party Government is unlikely to regain office quickly that enables  Sir Charles  Court's Government to have any hope of bringing the Shelf proceedings forward. In the field of uranium again the extraordinary attitude of the Labor Party is demonstrated. In this debate I shall not enter into the area of whether there ought to be uranium mining. I simply point to the rather extraordinary stance which nas been put forward by  Mr Keating  in statements of 17 and 30 November that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government in this field. I read from the statement of 30 November, which states: 
A future Labor Government will not be bound by decisions taken by the Fraser Government or any other conservative government, in relation to uranium. 
These matters are worth drawing to the attention of the Senate because I think they indicate an approach on the part of the Labor Party which is completely incompatible with resource development. One cannot expect people to raise large sums of money or to borrow large amounts of money to expend on development when there is no certainty as to the future. If developers face the prospect such as occurred when  Mr Connor  acquired gas at the wellhead and the threat that arrangements made with existing governments will simply not be honoured, then Australia's future economic development is extremely doubtful. 
I bring this matter before the Senate because I regard it as of national importance. I think the whole of Australia will depend upon the development which is possible over the next 10 years in my State of Western Australia and in Queensland. The significance of this week is that the electors of Western Australia will be asked to make a choice between a government which 1 believe can deliver the goods to the people and a government which will not deliver the goods to the people. All the talk in the world about welfare, education and all the rest, if it is not underpinned by economic expansion is, in my submission, so much cant. I trust that the electors of Western Australia, since it is their opportunity to make the decision, will recognise all this talk as cant and ensure the continued progress of Western Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether he heard  Mr Begg's  report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news at 7 o'clock last night that  Mr Begg  was told that a proposal for amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act was greeted in the party room of the Liberal and National Country Parties with a barrage of foot stomping? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether this is so? I must say that if it is so the stomping must have been very soft, or I was asleep. If I was asleep, perhaps the Minister can tell me what else was going on at the time. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs follows that asked earlier today by  Senator Mulvihill  about Vincent Teresa. Can the Minister tell the Senate what action the Government will take if it discovers the whereabouts of  Mr Teresa? 
I am sorry that the arrangements for today have been called into question. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania)- I just wish to explain the remark to which  Senator Georges  took exception. I mentioned that as far as I knew there was general agreement by the body of the Senate that these 4 matters would be dealt with by S o'clock tomorrow afternoon. I emphasised the importance of being able to debate at the Committee stage. I also emphasised my regret that they were being pushed through in this sort of hurry which inevitably means that speakers who would have liked to have participated in the debate will not. A number of those honourable senators opposed to these measures, or some of them, have pulled out of speaking during the second reading debate. They will no doubt at the committee stage make some reference to their views and why they hold those views. I just want to make it quite clear that while  Senator Georges  may have had some speakers on his side who did not participate, so were there a number who were opposed to this legislation and wished to express their views, but have not been able to do so. 
I was saying when I was interrupted by  Senator Rae's  personal explanation that I am sorry that the arrangements have been called into question. Since I have been in the Senate there have been few debates where as many senators have participated and where a more definite attempt has been made to ensure that the major issues could be aired and that those people who had amendments to put forward would get the chance to put them forward. I believe that the matter has been approached by both Government and Opposition in the spirit of real cooperation and that today's lengthy debate and the debate that will follow tomorrow indicate that senators have been given every reasonable chance to debate these propositions. 
I should like to mention a couple of points raised by  Senator Rae.  He suggested, for example, that there is an attempt in hand to destroy the Senate by stealth. I should like to say to the Senate and to  Senator Rae  that if now that the giants of the Senate are stirring and coming out supposedly to defend the Senate's existence are correct in what they say, then they have been sleeping giants. If they had kept any record or paid any account to the proceedings of the Australian Constitutional Convention, they would have been aware that as long ago as 28 October 1976 there was a recommendation from that Convention that this Bill, in the form it now holds, should be brought forward. I would have thought that those who were genuinely concerned about the future of the Senate- and I believe there are many- might well, if the matter is of much great concern, have made a little more effort to monitor the proceedings of that Convention and to see what action the Government may propose following the acceptance of that motion. 
The other thing I should like to say is that there was a plea about consistency. I shall come back to that a little later. If we all are to be men of absolute consistency it seems to me that we will never make progress with constitutional change and reform. In the past constitutional change has been a politically devisive issue in Australia. The whole concept of the Constitutional Convention has been to try to bring the warring parties together around the conference table so that they can agree on desirable changes to the Constitution. The whole process would be meaningless if the participants at the Convention went to it on the basis that they would not change their minds. Surely the whole concept of the Convention is that the parties will come together, discuss and agree to change. On occasion that will mean a change in position. I for one am not vaguely embarrassed by the change of position that has occurred in this case. I am pleased to defend the Bill. 
There are clear reasons why the Bill is being put forward. There is no real dispute in this chamber about the fact that we should have fewer elections in Australia. There have been too many elections over the last 10 years for the good of Australian political life. In the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which is now quite an old document I found a good explanation of why too many elections should not be held. In paragraph 245 of the section of the report which recommended this particular change in the Constitution the following statement appears: 
Separate elections also tend to emphasise the component parts of the Parliament at the expense of the Parliament itself. 
Some of my colleagues- I acknowledge that they hold this view sincerely- believe that it would be a good thing if the Senate, one component part of the Parliament, was emphasised to the expense of the Parliament itself, was given the additional emphasis of separate elections. I join with the majority view of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. Paragraph 245 of its report stated: 
It is not conducive to sound government that the future of a recently elected government should depend upon the eventualities of elections for senators which take place during the normal life of the House of Representatives. 
It is common knowledge that Senate elections such as have been held since the early 1960s in Australia are held in a by-election atmosphere, and in that situation they do not genuinely reflect the wish of the people as to who should govern. They can represent merely a rebuke to a government. I believe that the views expressed by the Joint Committee are sound. For that reason I support the view which the Government has now adopted in putting forward this Bill. 
I refer to  Senator Wright's  dissenting report to which reference has been made in this chamber. At the time of his report he was able to say- good luck to him- that only on one occasion in 59 years, in 1953, has it been necessary to have a separate Senate election. At the time  Senator Wright  had definite views on the value and the role of the Senate. He held those views in the light of a system which had produced only one separate Senate election in 59 years. Why is it that suddenly the concept of bringing the elections together will destroy this chamber? I do not believe that it will. As the Senate was not destroyed up to 1959- the time of the writing of that report- it will not be destroyed after the passage of this referendum and the guaranteeing of simultaneous elections. The aspect that is really worrying honourable senators is that which was expressed in the No case during the referendum campaign in 1974. It has also been expressed by a number of speakers in this debate. They are concerned that this referendum will make the Senate the rubber stamp of a socialist centralist Labor Government. That is what it comes down to. Some honourable senators hold the view genuinely that it will have that effect. I do not share their view and I should like to say why. I shall also say why I do not want the Senate to be damaged. 
The reasons were aptly expressed in the speech made by  Senator James  McClelland earlier today. Honourable senators will remember the contemptuous references in that speech to the provincials. First of all, poor old  Senator Withers,  my leader in this place, was characterised as a provincial. When I interjected on the honourable senator he jumped back at me and said that I was a provincial. I say this to the people of Sydney: You can go ahead and regard us as provincials. In the House of Representatives you and the people of Melbourne can hold sway. But in this place, the Senate, my State of Western Australia is equally represented with New South Wales and Victoria. Therein lies the strength of the Senate and its value to Western Australia. Its value does not lie in the membership of the Senate being conservative. I do not mean that in a political sense but in the sense of the term of its members. Its value lies in the fact that we in the smaller States are equally represented. One would not expect to find in the House of Representatives two of the 5 Liberal Ministers from the State of Western Australia. I give that as a good example of the greater influence which is given to the smaller States by the existence of the Senate. I defend the rights and powers of the Senate. As  Senator Scott  pointed out in the debate earlier today, those rights and powers are not affected by this referendum. The only way in which the Senate is affected is in its possible composition. I adopt the argument put forward by my honourable colleague  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He said that people are the source of all power. I do not mind facing the people at elections. I believe that the Senate has nothing to fear in facing the people after terms shorter than 6 years. 
Australia, with its great differences, will always have varying results around the Commonwealth. The smaller States will always be protected in this chamber by their equal representation. That is a fact which this referendum does not affect. The passage of this referendum will be good for democracy in Australia. There are problems in our democratic system. The action we took in 1975 in which I participated and which I believed, and still believe, was right put strains on the political system. If we have a long term interest in the survival of this place as a part of democratic Australia we must ensure that it is responsive to the will of the people. In that respect this referendum is a step forward. It will contribute to the better functioning of democracy and will help to ensure that people remain in favour of democracy in this country and not opposed to it. 
I return to the question of consistency. A lot has been made of it in this debate. I remind honourable senators that in 1974 this referendum was put forward before there was any talk of a Constitutional Convention and before the States and the Commonwealth came together to try to devise solutions. It was put forward by a government which I think even its closest supporters would agree had frightened the Australian public with the pace of the changes it tried to bring about. It put forward a series of referendums which seemed to be aimed at the whole pattern of Australian democracy. Not only did it put forward this referendum; it also put forward a referendum on how to alter the Constitution more easily, called the mode of altering the constitution. It put forward one called democratic elections, which would have meant that the central government through the Constitution overrode the States' rights to establish their own electoral systems, and it put forward something which would have created a section 96 situation for local government. Every honourable senator knows that the existing section 96 has been used by the central government to control the States. We took the firm view that section 96a which the Labor Party wanted to bring in to exercise the same controls over local government would have resulted in a great growth of central power in this country. 
-If the honourable senator is quiet and listens I will explain. We looked at the general thrust of that package of proposals. We made a sane and sensible decision to oppose them and oppose them we did, successfully. 
I have very little time left. Like everybody else I am under constraints. I should like to devote the time I have left to the few other points I wish to make. I have already drawn attention to the fact that we have put forward this referendum in the different context of a Convention decision. It is the result of parties coming together, including representatives of my own State Government, and exchanging views. If one looks at the minutes of the meeting of the Convention one finds that there was a great galaxy of State and Federal politicians at the Convention. This proposal was put forward and discussed. It was amended by the Convention on the motion of  Mr Willis  of New South Wales. It was then adopted. Nobody, it would appear from the minutes, sought a division on the question. The minutes do not record whether any other form of vote was taken. We put this forward as something which has come not just from this Government but from the Constitutional Convention which, I understand, has the support of every parliament in the Commonwealth and which has met seeking to bring us together to update the Constitution. 
I close by saying that I put forward my views in the firm belief that this proposal is compatible with the future strength of the Senate and indeed will strengthen the Senate in the future as it will help to ensure that the Senate remains democratically acceptable to the people. I do not believe that this place will be defended if anyone tries to turn it into a living brontosaurus or dinosaur which cannot change. We must not run away from the concept of change. We must find ways of updating our political structure because our political system is one with which the majority of Australians are dissatisfied. They are dissatisfied with us as their representatives. They are dissatisfied with our institutions. I believe, therefore, that we must be involved in a process of updating and improving those institutions and that this is a sensible step to be taking. 
I would ask my colleagues who will be campaigning against the referendum- and I know there are some- not to play upon the fears of the people. I do not believe that that would be a constructive step. I believe that we should go to the people and say: 'This is a proposal which most of us think will improve the governing of this country'. We should support it on that basis. 
I should like briefly to take this occasion to draw the attention of the Government again to the plight of a number of Cambodian nationals who are resident in Australia. There is a relatively small number of nationals but their personal position because of conditions in Cambodia is particularly bad. Since the Khmer Rouge took over in Cambodia that country has in effect become closed. It is simply not possible to get information in or out of the country. Many reports have filtered through and some of them are quite horrifying. It is suggested that the city of Phnom Penh, which was a city in excess of one million people is down to a population of about 20 000 due to the forced repatriation of people to the countryside and that the city is in fact a shell. Some diplomatic representatives of some countries are in Phnom Penh but I am told that those diplomats are confined to a very small radius- a matter of a few hundred metres- from the residences which they occupy. 
The relevance of all this to the nationals who are in Australia is that since the Khmer Rouge took over they have been completely unable to obtain any information whether their families are alive or dead and whether they can return to 
Cambodia safely. They are simply left in a complete bind. The situation is that they can choose to face what they have been told is possible death on their return to try to get information or they can stay here not knowing whether their families are alive or dead. In the case of one of the men I have been dealing with he has, or had, a wife and 6 children in Cambodia. Representations have already been made to the Government but the Government is totally unable to obtain any information. 
My reason for raising the matter now is that I think it is one which ought to be on the public record. It is a matter where I think the Government can try to encourage the admission of the Red Cross to Cambodia. At the moment some commercial contacts are being opened up by that country because it needs assistance in reconstruction. I believe that there may be some opportunities for the Government to use those contacts to try to get in. The awful possibility is that even with the good will of the Khmer Rouge there may have been such massive dislocation of Cambodia that it is simply impossible to get information. I should merely like to say to the Government that I believe that in the interests of people who have obtained refuge in Australia the Government should lend every effort to open lines of communication with the Khmer Rouge or with some authorities in Cambodia or obtain the entry of some international body such as the Red Cross which might be able to do something to relieve the terrible dilemma in which these people are placed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and I preface it by saying that since educational buildings in the Commonwealth and States are a major consumer of energy for heating, air conditioning, lighting and power purposes, has any thought been given to the future use of alternative sources of energy in such institutions? 
I want to comment on the matters raised in the recent debate by saying that, if one looks at some examples of what might possibly occur, bearing in mind what has happened in Australian politics in the past, and at the sorts of things which might precipitate a House of Representatives election, one would have to agree that to have this absolute provision in the Constitution is undesirable. There have been splits in political parties in Australia. For example, in the 1950s the Labor Party split into 2 parties and in the 1960s the Liberal Party in South Australia split into 2 parties. In that situation, for example, if a government fell because it had simply lost its majority in the House of Representatives and the Parliament had to be dissolved, it seems to be axiomatic that there ought also to be an election for the Senate so that the voters would have an opportunity to have the representation in this chamber reflect the new political alignments which had occurred. If that were not possible and if there were a long period where old political alignments which were no longer relevant in any sense to the political life of the country were persisted with in the Senate, I think this chamber would be a very odd animal indeed. It would simply not be workable in such circumstances. I believe that other circumstances could easily be predicted where the Senate would not be workable. I think that this amendment simply cannot be supported. It would tie us down to a quite intolerable situation in some circumstances. 
Yes, consequential. All of these words are simply to cover the range of possible minor changes which need to be done. I do not think that the fears which are expressed relate to matters which really do need concern on the part of this chamber. It is proper for  Senator Cavanagh  to raise them, but, on the strength of my valueless free legal opinion, I would disagree with him. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. How much money has been spent by the Commonwealth Government up to 10 March 1977 on setting up the Australian Broadcasting Commission's FM radio station in Perth? How much money is needed to make the proposed Perth FM station operational? When is it proposed to commence ABC FM broadcasting in Perth? What is the estimated number of FM receivers in Perth? How many Australian Broadcasting Commission FM stations are broadcasting in Australia and what was the date of opening of each station? What is the estimated annual budget of the proposed Broadcasting Commission FM station in Perth? 
A number of points have been raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  Of course, it is appropriate that he should have spoken first as he originally raised this matter before the Senate. I was pleased to hear him say that he now agrees that he was supplied with the original manuscript. Although he fell short of making any formal apology, I think he has made it clear to the Senate that there is now no imputation on his part against any honourable senator or officer of the Senate in that respect. I should like to clarify for the Senate a couple of points he raised. The first point related to the origin of questions and answers contained in the report. I direct the honourable senator's attention to the top of page 3 of the report, which I think makes the procedure that was followed quite clear. The report states: 
The Committee has extracted from Questions Without Notice and the statement the questions of fact and those relating to the Standing Orders which in its view fall to be answered. 
In other words, the Committee examined the questions that were put down and the answers that were given- the statement that was put down- and then made a determination of the questions which in its view fell to be answered. I think the next paragraph on page 3 of the report makes it clear how those questions were answered. It commences: 
The questions of fact were answered by the  Clerk  of the Senate and author of 'Australian Senate Practice',  Mr J.  R. Odgers, who discussed them with a sub-committee of two appointed by the Committee, Senators Brown and Chaney, and who provided written answers to the Committee. 
So I hope that the means by which the questions of fact were devised and the answers obtained by the Committee are quite clear to  Senator Cavanagh  and to other honourable senators.  Senator Cavanagh  referred also to an extract which appears on page 9 of the report and which appeared as a note in the second edition of  Australian Senate Practice.  I quote in part from that note: 
In so far as that opinion is concerned, it is put forward as a contribution to thought and without pretension to be accepted as conclusive. 
I think the honourable senator was suggesting that it was a pity that that note had been dropped. That is a view with which I might agree. But I think it should be made clear to the Senate that that particular note appeared only in the second edition, as I understand it, and was not simply dropped from this particular edition. It has been absent from a number of editions. Although were further editions to be produced one might wish to see a similar note included, I think it should be made quite clear, in view of the allegation by  Senator Cavanagh  that this is such a political work, that this is not a note which for the first time does not appear in this particular edition. It has been absent from a number of editions. I do not believe, therefore, that any particular significance should be attached to its omission. I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that that sort of personal note from the  Clerk  probably is useful as underlining the particular status of the work. This was made clear in the report in quotations from various statements made by honourable senators over the years when welcoming earlier editions. The document is not meant to be a conclusive work. It certainly is put forward as containing opinions which have proved to be helpful to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber in dealing with matters which are of concern to this chamber. 
I am sorry that  Senator Cavanagh  sees the need to make recommendation (3), as contained in the summary on page 1 1 of the report, more definite in order to protect the rights of honourable senators. Once again, I do not particularly disagree with the view put forward by  Senator Cavanagh,  namely, that if a work of this nature is to be printed by order of the Senate then quite clearly honourable senators who are called upon to vote on such a motion ought to have the opportunity to inspect the document if they believe that it has political content. In any event, they are entitled to know what it is that they are voting to have printed. But I suggest to  Senator Cavanagh  that it is not necessary to be more particular than recommendation (3) is. The recommendation is fairly careful to make it clear that it is not seeking to bind future honourable senators as to what decision they might take with respect to the publication of a similar work. Recommendation (3) states: 
That in the case of the future production of 'Australian Senate Practice', or any similar work, a matter which will be determined by the Senate at the time when the question arises, the Senate authorise the preparation of the work which when ready for publication can then be tabled and a motion moved for it to be printed as a Parliamentary Paper. 
I think the whole spirit of that recommendation is that to avoid the sort of difficulty which has arisen in this case it should be possible for the Senate to have before it the final form of document which somebody proposes ought to be printed by order of the Senate. I think it follows from that that should honourable senators wish to inspect the document they should have that opportunity. In my view, nothing in recommendation (3) suggests that the tabling of a document and the passage of a motion have to be contemporaneous. In fact, I think the whole inference contained in recommendation (3) is to the contrary. The object of the recommendation is to ensure that the Senate, should it move in this direction, will do so knowing what is the final form of the document. Therefore, I think the recommendation is consistent with the view expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  that this opportunity should be available to honourable senators. 
I wish to make what is really a fairly footling comment, which picks up the next point to be considered. A verbal, formal, typographical or clerical error appears to have been made in line 4 of the amendment. It should read any such work as "Australian Senate Practice" '. not 'any such word as "Australian Senate 
Practice" '. I take it that that is just a typographical error in the honourable senator's amendment. 
We would not want to leave the error to be corrected by the  Chairman.  The comment of substance I wish to make on the proposed amendment is simply to point out to the Senate that the Committee did not propose that there should be any standing order covering the publication in the future of a document such as  Australian Senate Practice.  I think the view of the Standing Orders Committee has to be taken from the report it has put down. The Committee's view was that such a publication stands outside the normal run of documents which are ordered to be printed. It is something of a special case which ought to be considered as a special case when the need arises. We should not try to formalise in Standing Orders a procedure for what is almost a one-off situation. I think that the Senate has on five or six occasions followed this particular procedure. 
I am putting the view that we are not dealing with something that affects the normal operation of the Senate in the printing of papers and so on. We are dealing with a situation in which, as one of my colleagues on the Committee said, the Senate has from time to time chosen to use the device of having something printed as a paper which is really enabling a book to be produced in the normal way that a textbook is produced with the author enjoying an author's normal rights to revise right up to the point of final printing. 
I merely express doubts about the suggestion that there ought to be even a consideration of a new standing order because I think that one is trying to formalise a rule for a situation which has not arisen and which could arise in a totally different way on some other occasion. I think it is a matter which we ought to leave to the Senate in the future. I have no doubt that following the matters which  Senator Cavanagh  has raised with respect to this particular edition of  Australian Senate Practice  there will be careful consideration by the Senate chamber as to how it wishes to proceed if it is to engage in this exercise in the future. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I appreciate the concern behind the statement that has just been made by  Senator Cavanagh  but I think that it would be a mistake to omit the words which he is seeking to have omitted in the amendment that has Deen circulated. I think the words 'clerical' and 'typographical' are fairly clear. I think we are clear as to what is a typographical error. It is a word which is mistyped or misprinted. 
-Yes, it is like the error which appeared in  Senator Cavanagh  's circulated amendment. A clerical error is an error in figures of a similar nature. I do not think therefore that  Senator Cavanagh  is concerned about that sort of error being corrected. Nor am I. The other sorts of errors which are covered by the words 'verbal' or 'formal'- of course the proposed new standing order merely picks up the wording of existing standing order 219- are the misuse of words or the use of the wrong word which is quite clearly a simple misuse. I am thinking of grammatical errors. Before speaking, I was trying to think of an example. The one that always throws me is the use of 'me' and T. My wife tells me that whenever I use T I should be using 'me' and whenever I use 'me' it should be T. She tells me that is a legacy of the brand of school I went to. I do not know whether that is true. If a report said something like, 'Neither the Government nor the Opposition are about to do something' instead of 'Neither the Government nor the Opposition is about to do something', that would be an error which would be covered by the word 'verbal'. Incidentally, I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that after consultation with the dictionary as to the meaning of 'verbal' one will see that it is not to be confused with 'oral'. The word 'verbal' in this instance simply enables one to correct words which have been misused. I think most of us would admit that we are all capable of putting down a report containing grammatical misuse of words which we would be happy to have corrected. The formal nature of what we are considering covers matters such as slight changes in punctuation, in paragraphs and things of that sort which go to the form of the document and not to its content. Again, there ought not to be any problem there. 
It is notable that the draftsman of this proposed Standing Order must have been conscious of the concern that might be felt by this chamber and which in fact has been put forward. We find in this proposed Standing Order words additional to those contained in standing order 219 in which I believe it has its genesis. At the end of the proposal the words are added: 'No other amendments may be made except by the authority of the Senate'. Those additional words stand as a caution to the  President  that he is not to amend otherwise than in accordance with this standing order. Traditionally, that provision has not been included in standing order 2 1 9. Perhaps at some future time the Standing Orders Committee may think that similar words ought to be added. With the greatest respect to the views put forward by  Senator Cavanagh  I think that he is concerned unnecessarily. I give him a free legal opinion, and, therefore, he can regard it as valueless. I do not believe that, on a proper legal construction of what is proposed, it could be suggested by any stretch of the imagination that the types of amendments which give rise to his concern in this case could be contemplated by the  President.  This proposal is clearly limited to very minor clerical, formal, verbal - 
I still oppose what  Senator Cavanagh  has put. 
I merely say, if it was put forward, I would think it would be improved if the words 'Amendments of were deleted. I think it is quite clear that the proposed new Standing order 365a and standing order 2 1 9 deal with two different matters. Standing order 219 deals with amendments-in other words, changes- in any part of a Bill which are to be made at the direction of the  Chairman  of Committees. When we talk about clerical and typographical errors, we are talking about mistakes which have been made. I would have thought that the distinction is one that is correct. In one case we are authorising an amendment where it is merely an amendment of a formal or verbal nature. In the second case corrections are being authorised. If the amendment is to be put forward in the form proposed by  Senator Cavanagh,  I believe it should provide that clerical or typographical errors may be corrected. That is a small point, but I think the form of words that I propose is better. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
I support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. The present procedure relating to the seeking of leave to incorporate material in  Hansard  is totally unsatisfactory. The position now is that there is no obligaton on those seeking to incorporate material to show to people from whom they are seeking leave what the document is, which means that the refusing of leave has the appearance of pique. People are called on to make a judgment on material they know nothing about and are asked to give a blanket approval to the incorporation of a piece of paper which could contain anything. The recommendation to which we have already agreed states that material would be excluded from  Hansard  only if it was impractical to include it, or if it was irrelevant or improper. There could be any number of reasons for the Senate refusing leave if it had knowledge of what was in a document. To leave the matter as it is at the moment with senators having to rely simply on good faith in a situation when a senator can refuse leave because he happens to be a bit cross that day is totally unsatisfactory. 
It is unsatisfactory for another reason too. For years senators in this place have defended the Senate as a House of debate. They have opposed the reading of speeches, and as we will be dealing with that question a little later I will not trespass on it. The whole idea as I understand it has been that this is a chamber where people should speak, where subsequent speakers should respond to what has been put forward and where there should be genuine debate. If a senator is about to speak in a debate and the preceding  speaker  seeks and gets leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some material which is then in the written record and appears as part of the argument, he is in the situation where he cannot respond to what may be the most substantial point made by the previous speaker. 
If it is incorporated it is not available until the next day. 
-The whole point is that one does not wish to appear peevish or to be acting out of pique by refusing leave to a senator who may quite reasonably want to incorporate documents. I think it is also reasonable that subsequent speakers have access to incorporated documents and be able to respond to them so that the documents then truly become part of the debate. It is a fact that all of us are under pressure to produce bits of paper which we send out to our electorates to show what a magnificent contribution we are making to the national scene. That is a complete side use of the facilities that are available to us and it is using this chamber in a way which takes from it the thing which we should be aiming at; that is, a set of operating rules for the chamber which facilitate genuine discussion of the issues before us. I do not think under the present system of seeking leave and then having documents disappear without senators knowing what is in them until they appear in  Hansard  the next day that it is possible properly to debate many issues. 

 Senator Keeffe referred to his own experience. In my time in this chamber  Senator Keeffe,  when discussing matters in which I have been greatly interested, has incorporated material in  Hansard.  I remember recent debates on matters affecting Aborigines when this was done. I have been interested subsequently to read the incorporated material but it was then too late to make any comment in the debate on the material incorporated. In totality the rule which the Standing Orders Committee has suggested simply says that material to be incorporated should be shown to the person who is leading- the Minister or the spokesman for the Opposition- and a copy of it made at the time it is incorporated so that it is available to honourable senators to comment on as part of the debate, and that it should be in printed or typewritten form, which is simply a practical requirement. It is not proposed that this be a standing order. I think it is reasonable that a Minister or spokesman for the Opposition when suddenly called upon to make a decision for his colleagues on whether leave should be granted for material to be incorporated in  Hansard  should make that decision with his eyes open and knowing what he is agreeing to rather than agree to the request simply because he knows that, for example,  Senator Keeffe  is a good chap who would not incorporate something which he would not want to see in  Hansard. 
I am sure that honourable senators will agree that the practice should not be left on that basis so that people are made to look pigheaded oafs if they refuse leave to one of their colleagues. If the granting of leave by a senator is to be a meaningful act it should be based on knowledge and not on some odd sense of mateship. As one who in a relatively short time in this place has been quite dissatisfied with the procedure that has operated with respect to incorporations, I respectfully suggest to the Senate that we ought to try out these guidelines. They are no more than that. The adoption of them will not prevent senators on either side from time to time, either through a flow of bile or for any other reason, refusing leave in circumstances when the rest of their colleagues wish leave to be granted. I believe that the Committee's recommendation will place senators in a better position to accept the decisions of their leaders on incorporations if they know that their leaders have seen the material, that it will be part of the debate which follows and that the granting of leave is not simply an act of grace. 
I am grateful to  Senator Cavanagh  for clearing up the confusion in  Senator McLaren's  mind in part at least. He has made it clear that it is not intended that the recommendation should be incorporated in the Standing Orders. It is meant merely to be an assistance to the Senate- a set of guidelines, which is precisely how it is described. I think it is quite clear that the sort of reservations expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  are taken into account in what is put forward by the Standing Orders Committee. These are guidelines which apply 'normally and wherever practicable'. One accepts that there will be in the to and fro of proceedings in this chamber occasions where it is not practicable to follow the guidelines. The judgment of the Leaders on either side in the main will be the determinant of what happens. 
I think it is also clear, looking at paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of recommendation (2), that it is intended that the guidelines generally should apply in the situation of debates. The recommendation refers to people leading for the Opposition. I think this means that we are talking about the debating situation. The guidelines would normally apply with someone such as  Senator Keeffe  who often in this chamber presents a prepared speech- I do not mean a written speech-which includes the incorporation of perhaps quite substantial written material which the honourable senator wants to be in  Hansard  as part of his speech. On those occasions where the incorporation is part of a formal presentation it is reasonable that the other side should know what it is being asked to give leave to incorporate, that the material should be available when it is incorporated so that it can be discussed subsequently in the debate and that it should be in a form that is easy to read. 
I should like to speak briefly on this proposal. I have a little sympathy for the amendment put forward by  Senator Wriedt,  mainly on the basis that I think the existing rule tends to fall a little unevenly on senators. I have seen the point of order taken on new senators particularly, who perhaps have been a little more conscious of the newness of their surroundings, rather more often than I have seen it taken on more senior senators. I think that on occasions the standing order is used tactically simply because in the irritation of the moment it is thought to be a clever thing to do to throw the  speaker  off his stride. From that point of view, I think the standing order is counter-productive. On the other hand, and more substantially, I think that tonight's debate demonstrates the value of not having speeches read. I should have thought that it was unusual to get so many senators in the chamber at this time of night. They are here partly because they think they understand the Standing Orders but partly because the debate is more interesting when people are making extempore contributions. I for one believe that the Senate would be a better chamber if the debates which generally occupy our time were conducted in the same spirit, with people responding to what has been said previously instead of making a set piece speech. I may lose my place here because I could not get the rest of my speech typed. 
But I do wish to say that, on balance, having heard the discussion tonight and having listened to it with great interest, we should preserve the rule and continue to examine it. At least that will mean that at some time in the future when a motion for the removal of the standing order is before the Senate we will have one more interesting debate before I leave this place. 
A number of statements have been made about the fact that there are exceptions to the standing order. Front benchers from both the Government and the Opposition sides do read speeches. I accept the analysis of that situation made by  Senator Cavanagh.  The contributions of Ministers are meant to state a position which is subsequently to be debated by the Senate. In the same way, those who lead for the Opposition put down a position which is to be taken up in debate by their colleagues. Although that represents a winking of the eye at the standing order, it is something which is acceptable in principle to me and is within the spirit of retaining this place as a debating chamber. I propose to oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt.  I think that this chamber does benefit from the free flow of debate which occasionally occurs when people choose to bring their minds to bear on what has been said previously, and I think it would be a great pity if" we lost that. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald of  12 March which is headed 'Few Remember Australia's Saint'. It refers to the grave of Caroline Chisholm which is apparently in a state of bad repair and deteriorating in a cemetery in Northhamptom in England. I ask the Minister whether there is any program which the Government has that would enable it to undertake repairs or maintenance work to this grave which is of considerable historic significance to Australia? 
I am encouraged both by the fact that I have a full hour before me and by the cries of Hear, hear' of my colleagues. I shall now settle into the debate. I listened with great interest to the  speaker  who preceded me,  Senator Donald  Cameron. I was very pleased to hear him make a plea for supporting fathers which echoed a very eloquent plea made in the other place last week by the honourable member for Perth,  Mr Ross  McLean. I think it is quite clear from statements which have been made by  Mr Chipp  when he spoke for these Parties and by  Senator Guilfoyle  since she assumed her portfolio that there is a great deal of sympathy in the Government for the removal of the present discrimination which exists in favour of single mothers as against single or supporting fathers. I join with  Senator Cameron  in saying to the Government that I hope that the Budget will permit it to look at this anomaly and to take some steps to relieve the position of the many supporting fathers in the community. 
It is worth noting that we have seen a considerable social change in Australia recently. In what male chauvinists might have called 'the good old days' husbands, in the main, deserted their wives. Although many wives were dissatisfied with their husbands in one respect or another, they seldom took the step of leaving. Over the last few years that position has changed. Now it is quite common for women to leave their husbands, and often to leave their husbands with the children. This has given rise to a social problem of quite different dimension from that which applied in years past. Our system simply makes no provision for such fathers. It is an anomaly. I am sure that the Government will move to remove it as soon as Budget conditions permit. I hope, notwithstanding the stringency of the Budget, that some attempt will be made to iron out that anomaly. 
Another anomaly to which I shall refer briefly and for which the Minister showed some sympathy is the position of blind pensioners. The anomaly with respect to blind pensioners is that they receive a tax free pension until they attain the normal pensionable age; but, they having attained that age, the pension then becomes part of their taxable income. So we have the odd position that the youthful blind receive a tax free benefit while the aged blind receive a benefit which is taxable. I think that has to be recognised as an anomalous situation. Clearly, to remove the anomaly would require further burdens on the Budget. Even though new programs might have to be put aside and, as I will be discussing later, existing programs might have to be streamlined and made more efficient and less costly to deliver, I hope that there will be some room to move in the field of anomalies. 
I was a little surprised that  Senator Cameron  set about attacking the recent recovery in profits. 1 think that recovery in profits is something which would be welcomed by many other spokesmen for his Party. I think it was acknowledged by the Australian Labor Party in the dying months of its government that the falling share of the national income which was taken by profits was a serious economic problem. If we want jobs for the unemployed, the position simply has to be that people who are providing jobs are making a profit. The restoration, to some extent, of the profitability of private industry which has been achieved in the first 1 5 months of this Government is one of the signs that the economic policy of the Government is succeeding. I would have thought that honourable senators opposite would have welcomed that situation as an indicator that they can expect a better employment situation in the future. Certainly, the private sector, which after all is the major employer in Australia, will not take up the slack of the unemployed if it cannot do so at a profit. I hope that the profit recovery will continue and that it will bring in its wake further investment and further jobs for those who unfortunately, at the moment, do not have them. 
I also was saddened by  Senator Cameron's  comments about the Industrial Relations Bureau, although it is not unexpected that Labor spokesmen will seek to beat us around the ears about that measure as being repressive. I remind the Senate of the unhappy history of labour relations not only in this country but also in England. I remind honourable senators of the time when  Mr Wilson  came into government and put before the people of England in place of strife a policy which would produce a new deal in labour relations. He totally failed in that regard. The policy was put in the drawer within 2 years of his Government taking office. Governments in the United Kingdom have totally failed to solve the problem of unions regarding themselves as being above the law as we have failed to solve that problem in this country. If the Industrial Relations Bureau is able to impose some semblance of order in a field where, too often, the rule of law plays no part at all, then I for one will welcome it as a strengthening of democracy in Australia. I do not see it as an instrument of repression. I see it as an instrument of freedom which might help to give people some freedom to live within the law as they are entitled to do in Australia. 
I join with practically every other senator who has spoken in this debate in welcoming the contribution made by  Senator Austin  Lewis. I do not feel experienced enough to pass judgment on his speech in the way in which that has been done by most of my colleagues. I merely say that I join with all other senators in welcoming him to this place. I admired the relaxed way in which he delivered his speech and the unpretentious way in which he presented it. I thought that the way in which he delivered it showed that he was not overawed by this place but that he had a very strong sense of what might be achieved by being here. I look forward to working with him and to hearing him participate not only in debates in this place but also in the deliberations of our Party. I was very interested in a number of the contributions made by my colleagues on this side of the Senate. I was a little disappointed in some of the remarks of  Senator Steele  Hall. I thought he was somewhat gloomier that I would have been on the success of what we call our federalism policy. I think it is very easy at the moment to read the newspapers and to see that various State governments are getting excited about whether the States are getting enough road funds and other matters which are of great importance to the States. I would not join  Senator Steele  Hall in saying: 
I urge the Government to be more explicit in the face of the reality that this Federal Government is finding itself in the position of disciplinarian of the States more than it is providing devolution of power. 
I shall spend a few minutes in disagreeing with those remarks and in supporting what was in the Queen's Speech, where she stated: 
Steps have been taken to reverse the trend towards the concentration of power in the hands of the Commonwealth Government. 
The first thing to which I think we can point with considerable satisfaction is the renewed freedom of local government in Australia. We had a lot of development of help for local government under the Labor Government. I think it would be churlish not to acknowledge that. A notable feature of the assistance which was granted to local government was, firstly, that is was granted through a Commonwealth instrumentality, namely, the Commonwealth Grants Commission and, secondly, that there was a tendency to impose great conditions on the receipt of those moneys. All of us who were in the field during those years- that includes most honourable senators in the chamberwould be familiar with the complaints of local government during that period about the bureaucratic burden which they were carrying because of the manner in which Labor set about assisting them. Of course, Labor's view of its relationship to local government is completely different from ours. The difference was highlighted by the referendum proposals which were put before the people in 1974, when the then Labor Government sought to add to the Constitution section 96A which would have given the Commonwealth the power to make direct conditional grants to local government in the same way as section 96 permits it to make direct conditional grants to the States. 
We all know the history of section 96 grants. We all know that they have been used to reduce substantially the freedom and the discretion of the States to make their own policies and to spend money in the way they think fit. It was quite clear from the referendum that a similar pattern was to be developed, as it was quite clear from what was actually done by the then Government that that was the pattern it wanted. It wanted a situation where there was general policy control from Canberra and, at the same time, a grant of assistance but a fettered sort of assistance which left very little discretion in local government. We for our part have made substantially increased free funds available to local government through the Grants Commission with no strings attached and I am pleased to say that great pleasure has been expressed by many local authorities I have visited since those grants came through last year, because the new payments from the Commonwealth through the Grants Commission were not made on a conditional basis. Local authorities themselves have determined the priorities which they think appropriate for their local areas and I see that as a substantial step towards a devolution of power. I mark it as something about which I feel particularly satisfied. 
Less emphasis has been placed on section 96 grants and it has been interesting at question time to hear Labor Party senators berating the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs  (Senator Carrick)  because there is less emphasis by this Government on section 96 grants. Of course there is. It is in our federalism policy that this is what we intend. We do not want to increase the areas where the Commonwealth is dictating to the States how they must spend funds. So if there is a reduction in the emphasis on section 96 grants I point to it as a positive step in the right direction. I refer now to the Bailey report which is what it is stated to be, that is, a report and not any particular action by the Government. The fact that it was commissioned and the terms under which it was commissioned represent the potential for the greatest single step towards the greater devolution of power in Australia than we have seen to date. The terms of reference laid down by the Government when the task force was commissioned state: 
Against the background of the Government's Federalism policy and its concern at the proliferation and overlap of Commonwealth services and programs in the health, welfare and community development fields, the Task Force shall examine and report on: 
a ) the identification of particular services and programs, currently being undertaken by the Commonwealth, in the health, welfare and community development fields, which could be better delivered by a State, local government or voluntary agency and the administration of which could be transferred to the States; 
the possibilities for elimination of individual programs and consolidation into broader based programs in a manner which enables more efficient and economic delivery whether by the Commonwealth or the States, and the establishment of appropriate consultative arrangements with the States, local government and voluntary agencies on future policy planning, administration and service delivery in the health, welfare and community development fields; 
the possibility of achieving better co-ordination and avoiding overlap by more specific definitions of programs, eligible projects and eligible organisations, having in mind that co-ordination could be effected at the State and local government level without Commonwealth involvement. 
It goes on but I think that is enough. 
-Let me come to the recommendations. Do not take my stride; I am reading my speech in contravention of Standing Orders. These were the terms of reference given to the Bailey task force when it was sent out to do its job. The next thing I draw the Senate's attention to is the way in which that task force worked. Instead of a group of boffins sitting here in Canberra drawing up a grand scheme in isolation which it could then seek to impose upon the 
States, the Bailey task force took the quite unprecedented step- unprecedented when we think of the way in which the previous Government tackled problems- of actually going to the States, to the people who would be expected to make these programs work in the States, and talking to them. The task force went to the Public Service employee unions which were involved and talked to them. It went to local government and talked to local government. It was a process of consultation which was totally devoid of the confrontation element which has so soured CommonwealthState relations over recent years. The task force has produced a report which, I understand, is before the Government and receiving further attention with a view to advising on its implementation. 
I am not prepared to comment on their particular suggestion in respect of repatriation hospitals. 
Because I have not studied it closely and that is a very good reason. However, let me say that there is a large body of electoral opinion in Australia which regards repatriation hospitals as sacred and nobody would know that better than  Senator Bishop.  I would be a bold man indeed to stand up in this place after the amount of study I have given the report and say 'Yes, let us do what is suggested with repatriation hospitals'. If the honourable senator thinks that I am that silly I will sit down even sooner than I had intended. The recommendations are broad ranging. I shall quote, a little more briefly, from the findings and recommendations of the report where we are told that total Commonwealth outlays in excess of $8, 800m are the subject of recommendations in the report. The task force has put forward a detailed series of recommendations which includes broad banding some 26 programs into about 4 programs and suggests that there should be a major step back by the Commonwealth in terms of detailed control, a handing over to the States of a much greater discretion to determine internal priorities, and the giving to the States of a much greater power to administer the system in a proper way. 
The task force has shown that it is fairly aware of the sort of difficulties which honourable senators opposite are referring to by way of interjection and says in its recommendations that it must be recognised that devolution requires some risk taking. However, it is interesting that this apolitical group when given a technical job to do should come back and say: 'We consider the advantages in the effectiveness and delivery of programs outweigh the disadvantages'. I do not put forward this report as something which bears the touch of the Holy Ghost. It may well contain some mistakes but the important thing is that it contains a rational approach to the very real need in Australia to get away from the central bureaucracy which pretends to impose solutions throughout Australia and looks at the problems of getting out into the areas where solutions have to be found and getting programs which will work at the local level. 
I put forward that report and the Government's continuance of the operation of the task force as a very substantial sign of a new approach to federalism and would say to the Senate that if it expects the path to new federalism to be strewn with roses it will be disappointed because as long as the Commonwealth Government remains the central taxing body and the States remain dependent on the funds collected by the Commonwealth there will be conflict, and for as long as we have federalism there will be conflict. However, the important thing is that in a major way we are moving to a process of consultation wherever possible and to a situation where we are aiming to get the delivery of programs at the local and not the central level. I believe that the rate of progress towards this end is eminently satisfactory. I commend the Government and the Minister for their efforts to date and I hope that they will manage to do a lot more in the future. 
Another point I would like to touch upon was raised by  Senator Baume.  As it was raised by him and him alone it may well have passed the ears of many honourable senators. He referred to possibility that we have a systematic fault in the way in which we run this place which imposes undue stresses and burdens on the health of members and senators and even more so on those who hold ministerial office. I know that many honourable senators on this and the other side would know that the burdens of office are such that they do affect and have affected in the past the health of many of the people who have worked in this place. I believe that the best decisions are not made in a state of extreme stress and that the system under which we operate is in many ways foolish and conducive to poor rather than good decision making. I hope that the Government will be alive to the need to program the Parliament in a way which reduces to the minimum the stress which is placed on all those who work here, particularly those who lead for the Government and the Opposition. I believe this could be achieved by reverting to the experiment tried in this place by former  Senator Murphy  in collaboration with  Senator Withers.  They adopted a system of sitting fortnightly instead of for 3 weeks and having a fortnight away from this place. That sort of changed sitting pattern would reduce the amount of interstate travel. It would give us more time free from parliamentary duties and free to indulge perhaps in committee activity also our electoral activity. It could be achieved very simply. I ask the Government to consider as soon as possible changes in sitting times. Such a change will cut out this absolutely insane business politicians engage in in Australia of flying to our homes each weekend, going to functions, trying to spend a little time in our electorates and homes and them virtually flying back to Canberra on a weekly basis for practically now 10 months of the year. I do not think that this is conducive to good government. It is not conducive to sensible behaviour in this place. I hope that the Opposition would cooperate with the Government if it tries to achieve some sanity in the way that Parliament is operated. 
-It is very bad for our families. There has been some publicity about this in the newspapers from time to time. I suggest that any honourable senators who feel particularly distressed should remember that our position is not unique. Commercial travellers, merchant seamen and many other people have a similar bad time. 
The only other matters I want to mention which were referred to in the Queen's Speech relate to constitutional reform. There were some differences of opinion in the Senate as is well known about the need for constitutional reform and the proposals which are being put forward. I am already on the record as saying that I believe it is extremely important and we should to a great extent or as much as possible sink our normal political differences and try to achieve some constitutional change. To some extent we are at the beginning or the end of constitutional reform in Australia. We are trying a new system. We all know the history of constitutional change. It is extremely difficult to achieve success in referendums. But now we have this system of having a Constitutional Convention at which people from all the States, from all the political parties and from the Commonwealth and all the political parties operating in that sphere can get together and, to the greatest extent possible, iron out their differences and arrive at agreements for constitutional reform. 
It is new. In 1959 the Parliament tried to do this at the Commonwealth level. An excellent report was produced which recommended a number of constitutional changes. We know that this was not a sufficient impetus to achieve the changes that were recommended. But now for the first time we have 4 proposals which have very broad support although, of course, they have some vocal opposition or, at least, some of them have vocal opposition. The prospects for constitutional reform if we fail this time must be dismal indeed. I think that if we fail this time we will be left in a situation of holding constitutional conventions of questionable value and use. We have a system of arriving at constitutional change which most of us would agree is unlikely to produce much constitutional change. I think that we will have to start casting around for alternatives. 
I doubt that we are in a situation in Australia in which, by some revolutionary means, we will produce a new Constitution. I think that the concept of producing a new national convention that totally rewrites the Constitution is unrealistic. I would say that if we find that constitutional change is impossible, perhaps the one thing we ought to do is to examine what other means are available to us. The sorts of things we can examine include the American system under which the State legislatures rather than the vote of the people is the determining factor. The one referendum question that may be worth putting over and over again until it achieves success is that for a new means of changing the Constitution. In any event, I put it to the Senate that this is quite an historic opportunity to break the barrier. I would hope that those of us who believe in constitutional change can move together with maximum amiability, at least until 2 1 May 1977. 
I believe that really we are beginning on a very easy level. Who in his right mind could object to a number of the proposals? I will not say that there is not rational reason for arguing at least about some of the proposals. Who in his right mind will argue against the retirement of judges at age 70 years? I assure you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that no one who has ever appeared before a crusty old judge would argue against that proposal. 
Yes, probably the judge may argue against it. But, we have left the position of the present judges untouched. So perhaps they will not be unduly sensitive. Who really will risk a repeat of the Albert Field situation and the Cleaver Bunton situation? 
The honourable senator may put any ignoble motive he likes on my remarks. But who would ever want to see those situations repeated. So let us say that these referendum proposals are a wonderful start. 
Yes, who would want to see the Gair affair repeated. I am not being pugnacious enough in this speech, as my Leader is reminding me by way of interjection. These are matters which we ought to be able to sell to the Australian public. I believe that it behoves us to do so if we genuinely want to achieve any other change. It is worth noting that, in fact, we have left out the hard question. The serious constitutional issue in Australia is not any of the four that we are putting forward. These are really pipe openers. The serious constitutional question that we have to face is before sub-committee D of the Constitutional Convention and relates to the powers of this place. That is a matter upon which, with the best will in the world, it will be very hard for people to reach agreement and achieve a solution which ought to be put to the Australian people. 
I would like to address myself to the problem briefly. Let me say that I believe any talk about whether we have a problem in the monarchial system is avoiding the real issue. Frankly, I think it is totally irrelevant whether  Sir John  Kerr is an appointed Governor-General or an elected  president.  The fact of the matter is that while we maintain a system in which there is a possibility of deadlock between this place and another place we must have a means to resolve the deadlock. If we had had an elected  president  during the time of the constitutional crisis, he would have had the power to do what  Sir John  Kerr did which was to dismiss us and send us to an election in the event that we could not agree to the carrying on of government by the granting of Supply. So the situation is that to some extent we have been chasing a red herring. We have been talking about the Governor-General for reasons which perhaps can be understood. But really we ought to be talking about the constitutional powers of the Senate and what ought to happen in the resolution of deadlocks. 
I would say that even the greatest Tory in the Senate would agree that there is one change that ought to be made: If the Senate is to have the power to stop the Supply Bills- I personally believe we should have it- which are the life blood of the government it is ludicrous that we can do that in a situation in which we ourselves cannot be taken to the people. I for one would not be prepared to sit in the Senate and cast a vote in such a case if I was secured from the vote of the people if I succeeded in bringing down a government. It is illogical that our Constitution, in the absence of double dissolution Bills being available, would permit that to happen. I would say that with the smallest amount of goodwill it would be possible to agree around the Senate chamber with very few exceptions and it would be possible to obtain agreement out in the community that that very minimal change ought to be made in our constitutional structure so that the Senate is not insulated from the results of its actions. I can see no basis in principle upon which we ought to be able to force a government to the people and be completely immune from the people ourselves. There is that starting point. 
I believe that the prospect exists for us to tackle the major problem. I simply say to the Senate that it would be a great tragedy if we muffed the easy ones and thereby put beyond all hope our chances of tackling the really serious questions which exist in Australia. If we are earnest in this matter of constitutional reform, there is one signal service that the Opposition and only the Opposition can provide. Its members must get away from the artificial debate about the personage of the Governor-General which I believe to be a totally irrelevant matter and one of pique rather than of genuine principle. They must deal with the substantial question, namely, how to operate a system in which deadlock is possible. That is a constitutional problem we have to face up to, find a solution to and if constitutional change is necessary we have to be prepared to go to the people. 
I have particularly enjoyed making a speech at the end of a series of speeches in which honourable senators have said practically everything that can be said. I am feeling in the position of the monkey who has sat at the piano after many other monkeys and at last played Chopin. Whilst I am sure that my colleagues in the Senate do not share my satisfaction, it is consoling to us to know that we have each had that moment of satisfaction in thinking for once that the monkey has played Chopin. I commend the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply which has been moved by  Senator Lewis.  Of course, I support it and I look forward to delivering it to  His Excellency. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to recent reports that there are serious delays in the hearing of defended cases before the Family Court in Victoria. I ask the Minister: Have these difficulties, which appear to be very serious indeed, been drawn to the attention of the Government? If so, what action, if any, is proposed to relieve the situation? 
-On behalf of  Senator Bonner,  I move: 
That the order of the day standing on the notice paper for 25 February 1977 relating to the motion to take note of the report on the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders be restored to the notice paper and be an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  5.48  to  8  p.m. 
-I ask my question with the same excitement of mind as the preceding senator. My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to the article in today's  Australian  newspaper headed 'PM poised to cut down on welfare cash'. I ask: Is there any substance in the suggestion in the article that the Prime Minister has written to the Minister recommending cuts in certain welfare payments and projects in the next Budget? 
-1 rise on this clause firstly because  Senator Wright  has imputed motives to the Government which I thoroughly reject and which I think are quite nonsensical. The amendment which he has moved is totally unnecessary not only for the reason put forward by  Senator James  McClelland but also because on a proper reading of sub-clause (3) of clause 6 it would not be possible to say that something like the Entebbe raid involved a hostile activity against the government of a foreign country. My reading of the clause, and 1 bow as a lawyer to some extent to  Senator Wright  with his much longer experience, would simply not encompass the Entebbe raid and that is because such a raid is not carried out with the objective of overthrowing the government, nor with the objective of causing the public in a foreign country to be in fear of suffering death, nor with the objective set out in paragraph (c) of sub-clause (3), nor with the objective of destroying property. That would be activity with the objective of rescuing people being held by hijackers. I would have thought that a proper application of that clause to the Entebbe raid would have excluded that type of activity from the provisions of the clause. For that reason I would not support the amendment put forward by  Senator Wright  without hearing more convincing argument than has been advanced so far. 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware of claims that recently discovered documents have confirmed that the Pitcairn Islanders who were resettled on Norfolk Island in 1856 were guaranteed ownership of all but 700 acres of the island and the right to internal self-government? Is the Minister in a position to say whether these claims are correct? Can the Minister further say how many Pitcairn descendants own land on the island and how many non-Pitcairners are now landholders? Does this mean that the land held by nonPitcairners should be restored to those people of Pitcairn descent? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the serious decline in the number of skilled tradesmen in Australia which is highlighted in the quarterly survey of April 1977 of the Australian New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. That survey indicates that, between 1971 and 1975, the number of skilled tradesmen fell by 12.7 per cent. In the same period, the annual migrant intake of skilled tradesmen fell by 58.5 per cent from 14 353 to 5955. Can the Minister outline what steps are being taken by the Government to increase the flow of skilled tradesmen? Does the Minister think that the steps taken by the Government to date are adequate to meet the problem or are further measures proposed? 
-On behalf of  Senator Rae,  I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following matter: Government funding of, and expenditure of public moneys by, Commonwealth statutory authorities and corporations, particularly those which present annual reports to the Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. Is the Government currently engaged in negotiations with the Western Australian Government and /or the Joint Venturers on the North West Shelf gas field relating to the proposed development of that field? If it is, in what areas of Commonwealth responsibility is agreement still to be reached? When does the Government expect the Joint Venturers to commence the detailed feasibility study which is the next stage of the project? 
The debate this evening has been a very refreshing one because all Western Australian senators and members are fresh from Western Australia where we have been roundly abused for the recent Government decisions on road funds. I recall a leading article in the  West Australian  which suggested that it was time that Western Australian senators and members showed their mettle and did something about the despicable meanness of the Government with respect to road allocations to Western Australia. So it is refreshing to come here and to find that at least in the eastern States we are regarded as a brand of pirate which has managed, to the great detriment of our sister States, to get a very much larger than fair share of road funds for our State. I am tempted to circulate  Senator Steele  Hall's speech to as many of my constituents as I can, in the fond hope that they may regard the figures which he has produced as an example of the extremely effective representation which we are giving to Western Australia. 
I am sorry that he marred the figures which he presented, which I have no doubt are correct, with some factual inaccuracies. He suggested that the consistent favouring of Western Australia, as he saw it- the consistent allocation by the Commonwealth of a greater percentage of road funds than had been recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads- was a sign that it pays to be unco-operative. Therefore I assume that he was suggesting that over the long period that his figures covered the Premiers,  Sir David  Bland, the Labor Premier  Mr John  Tonkin and the present Premier  Sir Charles  Court, were all examples of unco-operative Premiers, and that was all that lay behind the matter. I would have thought that if one bore in mind the different characters of these 3 men it became fairly obvious that it was an oversimplification to suggest that some form of uncooperative behaviour lay behind the significant excess over the Bureau of Roads recommendations which have applied for the last 10 years. It suggested to me that the significant increase over the Bureau of Roads allocation could be related to a great contribution which Western Australia has made and is able to make to the economic development of Australia and to the peculiar difficulties that Western Australia suffers because of its vast area and long distance. 
I particularly point out to the Senate that it cannot be said- I quote my colleague  Senator Steele  Hall-that this $3.2m flows from the tantrums of the Premier of Western Australia in March when the road program was announced. That is, as near as I can recall, a direct quote from what was said by my colleague. The extra $3.2m was announced in January. It was announced after discussions between the Premier and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It followed representations which commenced in June of last year, which ran through August and October of last year and which culminated at a meeting in Canberra in January. Although it is true that some rather strong words emanated from the Premier and, I think, his Minister for Transport, when the current progam was announced it reduced the percentage share that Western Australia would get in future. It gave us the smallest percentage increase in road funds of any of the States. Although they complained, that was long after the extra $3.2m had been allocated. 
I would have been more impressed by the case put forward by  Senator Steele  Hall if he had bothered to cost some of the benefits which acrrue to his State because of the extraordinary level of tariff protection granted to the motor industry, which provides so much employment in South Australia, and to what I might call the white goods industry in which his State seems to specialise. In fact, the south-east corner of Australia benefits greatly from a system of tariffs which costs the Australian consumer billions of dollars each year. The fact is that my home State, Western Australia, receives very little benefit from that. A minute percentage of our population is engaged in manufacturing. I think it is about 2.5 per cent of the work force. Therefore, if he had brought some of those figures into account I would have been more impressed with the case which he put forward. 
The case for a significantly increased allocation to Western Australia over the amount paid to South Australia, I think, is based on 2 factors. Firstly, I would refer to the area factor which has already been referred to by my colleague,  Senator Coleman.  I am very pleased to be batting on her side on this one occasion. 
The enormous size of Western Australia is something which ought to be appreciated by all senators. I invite  Senator Steele  Hall to spend a little of the winter in the northern part of Western Australia to see for himself the vast distances and the great difficulties under which people in that area live. Perhaps even more important than that is the economic situation in Australia generally which requires that Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Queensland basically shall fuel the growth in the Australian economy over the next 10 or perhaps 20 years. It is a sad fact that for the last 20 years, certainly for the last 15 years, Western Australia was capital hungry. Undoubtedly in the future it will be capital hungry. It will be short of capital. In our economic development in the past we have had to call upon private industry to plough in or to pay for most of the infrastructure that one would normally expect government to supply. That situation cannot continue to the same extent. There will be less ability on the part of private industry to pay for all the infrastructure in the future. 
I think that this Senate and the Government will have to look over the next few years at the extent to which both Western Australia and Queensland will have greater calls upon the capital resources of the Commonwealth, because I believe that unless those States are given access to considerable capital resources we will not get the economic recovery that everybody in Australia wants. We will not get States such as South Australia getting the full value from the manufacturing industry that we protect so assiduously with high tariffs. We will not get a sufficiently high level of benefit in South Australia. I suggest that any honourable senator who has doubts about allocations of road funds to Western Australia should spend some time around Dampier and Port Hedland and driving inland to towns such as Tom Price or Mount Newman. They should sample the excessive isolation of those communities and the very great difficulties of travel on unsealed roads. I think they would come back and find that an additional allocation of $ 1.4m out of this $3.2m to seal part of one of those roads was something that might be defensible and was defensible in the national interest. 
I suggest to the Senate that this debate tonight has highlighted the peculiar difficulty that senators face in doing what so many of our supporters would like us to do, and that is to act simply as defenders of our States. The debate tonight is a very interesting example of the fact that if Caucus chooses to support the Government on an issue- we know that that means that all Labor senators will vote with the GovernmentGovernment senators from five of the six States could cross the floor if they wished and the Government would still get its legislation passed. It is an interesting reflection on the operation of the States House when one of the parties is totally caucused. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order! 
It is an extremely interesting example of the effect of Caucus. Government senators from five of the six States could cross the floor and the Government would get its legislation passed. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Georges, you will withdraw. 
I am in the embarrassing situation of not knowing what my colleague has withdrawn. I will find out later and complain to him then. The other interesting fact on which we can ponder is that if the Caucus determines that it will oppose the Government and Government senators from any one State cross the floor, they can defeat any Government measure. That is a formula for an unworkable Senate, from the point of view of the Government. I suggest that those interesting combinations of possibility are things about which we as senators have to think and about which our supporters have to think when we are working out how we will behave in the Senate. 
I know that my colleague,  Senator Steele  Hall, as an ex-Premier who has sat in at Premiers Conferences and has seen what happens, perhaps has stronger feelings than most on issues such as the one which has come before us today. I simply commend to him a visit to my State. I think he will find the factor of distance and the economic need for greater capital investment in Western Australian matters which quickly become selfevident. I would be very happy to accompany him on such a visit and hope that I might gain a convert to our cause. 
I am in no position to respond in detail to all the figures that have been given by  Senator Steele  Hall. One of the matters that has been vexing and concerning Western Australia is the very substantial reduction in the allocation for urban arterial roads. As I understand it, the allocation in that particular segment has dropped by about 46 per cent in 1977-78 from the 1976-77 proposal. The thing to bear in mind is that most of the urban arterial programs are programs which are not planned on a year by year basis only. They are major projects which involve substantial resumption, substantial capital works and are usually planned on a multi-year basis. The fact of the matter is that the Western Australian Government is severely incommoded by the fact that it has in hand substantial programs on the basis of the sorts of previous allocations which have been made. It now faces a quite sharp reduction in funds for that particular area. 
I suggest to  Senator Steele  Hall, and indeed to the Committee that if reductions are being made, as in fact they are, they are not as substantial as one could possibly hope. Indeed, I should have thought that in view of the problem of maintaining continuous programs with such wide fluctuation they are perhaps more extreme than is reasonable. These matters certainly can be debated in far more detail when in the Budget session we look at the 1977-78 allocations. I am grateful to  Senator Steele  Hall for the warning that the matter will be the subject of debate from both sides of the chamber. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a report which appeared in the  Daily Mirror  of Tuesday, 31 May, and which was to the effect that a submission has been made by the New South Wales Labour Council calling for pensions to be raised to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. Is the Minister able to indicate what that proposal would cost the taxpayer? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to an item in the AM program yesterday on the Government's proposal for the establishment of a Human Rights Commission. The Australian Broadcasting Commission announcer introduced the particular segment by saying: 
Australia does not have a Bill of Human Rights and an attempt by the Labor Government to have the UN Human Rights Charter written into Federal legislation was defeated by the Opposition Parties in the Senate. 
In fact, the Bill that the Labor Government introduced was never brought forward for debate in this chamber and lapsed when Parliament was prorogued early in 1974 for the Royal Visit. This inaccuracy was drawn to the attention of the ABC by me yesterday, but no correction has been made. I was advised this morning by the producer of the program that he regarded the matter as a technicality. I ask: Will the Minister draw this matter to the attention of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and seek an explanation as to the circumstances in which a mis-statement of fact is regarded by the Commission as a technicality? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the Aboriginal Loans Commission which has the power to make loans to Aborigines for the purpose, among other purposes, of enabling them to purchase homes. Are such loans being made by the Commission in the Northern Territory and elsewhere in Australia? If so, is the program proving successful as a means of encouraging self-help and independence? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the current annual cost of the Western Australian Symphony Orchestra. 
What part of that cost is represented by (a) rent and (b) salaries. 
What pan of the total costs are met by (a) the Australian Broadcasting Commission, (b) the State Government and (c) local authorities. 
Which local authorities in Western Australia contribute to the Orchestra. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the answer which he put down in the Senate yesterday which followed a question I asked in the Senate on 3 June 1977. 1 asked at that time: 
Will the Minister draw this matter- 
This matter being a misreporting of fact by the Australian Broadcasting Commission -  to the attention of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and seek an explanation as to the circumstances in which a mis-statement of fact is regarded by the Commission as a technicality. 
The answer obtained yesterday states: 
The  Chairman  of the ABC has expressed regret on behalf of the Commission regarding the statement made . . . 
That is no answer to the question. I again ask the Minister: Will he draw the matter to the attention of the ABC and seek an explanation in the terms sought on 3 June? 
-Unfortunately the program for tonight does not permit us to prolong this debate very much. I want to touch on a couple of points before we close the debate this evening. I refer to the matters raised principally by the previous  speaker, Senator Cavanagh.  The happy thing, I suppose, is that I agree with his concluding remarks. I join with him in thanking  Senator Neville  Bonner for his chairmanship of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory and in thanking the Committee Secretariat for its contribution. The couple of points I want to mention before seeking leave to continue my remarks at a later stage are as follows: Firstly, I mention the query about the involvement of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Government decided to allow certain aspects of this legislation to be dealt with by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I for one still believe that that was a sensible decision. 
The operation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 has to be looked at in the context of an Act which will have a very considerable effect on all people who live in the Northern Territory. There are obviously some very strong views about the operation of that Act in the Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal communities in that Territory. I think the evidence which was brought before the Committee and which showed the very strong views that are held will have a very useful effect within the Northern Territory community. The views have had an airing. The Committee has been able to take them into account. The Assembly itself has had a most valuable exercise in producing a Bill which initially was laid before the Assembly but which the Majority Leader,  Dr Goff  Letts, now agrees was deficient in a number of particulars. The Assembly has been involved in a way which will enable it to make a substantial contribution to the operation of Aboriginal lands in Australia. 
The second point is that the Committee itself has been questioned by  Senator Cavanagh.  I think the value of the Committee has been proved. If we look at the evidence of  Dr Letts  we see that he, in the process of this inquiry and the other representations that he has received, has been brought to a different point of view about the way the legislation ought to be framed. I think that fact in itself demonstrates the value of the exercise that has been sponsored by this Parliament. It has resulted in a degree of dialogue between the national Parliament and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- a degree of dialogue that I think was necessary. I think this contributes to a better understanding between the two parliaments and to a better understanding in both parliaments of the problems involved in the Act. 
The last point I make relates to the 2-kilometre limit on which  Senator Cavanagh  touched. He expressed some dissatisfaction with the finding and talked about the voting in the Committee. I simply say to the Senate that this was an area where it was not possible to meet the competing wishes and requirements of the different people who came before the Committee. In fact, the Committee was faced with totally inconsistent demands. On the part of Aborigines there was a request for a 2 -kilometre area of the sea right round Aboriginal land. That request had been founded, I think, on the view put forward by  Mr Justice  Woodward who considered the original request for a much wider area of the sea. I accept that a large section of the Aboriginal community had come to expect that they would receive 2 kilometres of the sea as part of their Aboriginal lands. This is a very serious matter and something at which the Committee had to look very carefully. 
On the other hand the Committee also had to look at the quite obvious community expectation that the right of access to the sea which is enjoyed by Australians everywhere else in Australia should be enjoyed in the Northern Territory as it has been in the past. There was considerable weight of evidence from the nonAboriginal community that people had this expectation that they would be able to enjoy the sea in the way that other Australians do. These people made it quite clear that they regarded this matter as an important part of their ability to lead an enjoyable life in the Northern Territory. The recreational values of the seas were very important to them. I do not believe that a decision to close off what was nearly 80 per cent of the Northern Territory coastline could have been taken without very serious repercussions within the total community of the Northern Territory. So the Committee was faced with a situation where it simply could not meet the competing demands that were placed before it. 
I hope that the recommendations we put forward will provide a helpful guide to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in reaching a solution which, firstly, will guarantee to the Aborigines the traditional access that they have had to the seas and which the Commonwealth Act requires should be preserved to them; secondly, will enable the protection of areas which are of special significance, be they sacred sites or areas close to significant Aboriginal communities; and at the same time will result in a preservation of what I would call the normal Australian recreational rights to use the sea for the total community. I think that the Committee, faced with a very difficult choice, has done the best it could to achieve a compromise solution which meets the basic needs of the whole community in the Northern Territory. The matters dealt with in the report are complicated and long. As I say, there are other matters before the Senate tonight which ought to be dealt with. I now seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has a complaint been made to the Marine Operations Centre of the Department of Transport relating to the obstruction of whalers by anti-whaling demonstrators in rubber rafts off the coast of Western Australia, near Albany? If a complaint has been made, what action has been taken by the Department with respect to the complaint? 
I wish to raise very briefly in the adjournment debate a matter which was referred to last night by a West Australian senator,  Senator Coleman.  It related to a journey to Canberra which has been undertaken by members of the Aboriginal community who are now living at Lockridge. The stated purpose of this journey is to see the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner.  Last night  Senator Carrick  was able to provide some information to the Senate about the efforts made by  Mr Viner  to make himself available to these people. In view of the fact that firstly I am concerned with the claims being made by these people and plight they are in, and secondly I am concerned with the efforts which have been made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on behalf of the people, I seek this opportunity to ask the Minister for Education whether he is now in a position to give the Senate some further information on the matter. 

 - Senator Gietzelt 's closing comments obscure one of the basic problems, I think, in the proposition that he has been putting forward. He conceded in his concluding sentences that it might be a very sensible thing to keep rates down. He used that as an argument for increasing the amount of aid which ought to be given to local government by the central Government. It seems to me that that sort of statement completely overlooks that any money which is spent by local government, whether it is raised by rates or by the payment or repayment of tax moneys to local authorities, still is money which has to be raised by means of taxation. We have to get into a situation where the national Government is prepared to say that there is a certain specified limit as to the amount of taxation which is going to be raised and that limit is going to have a very close relationship to the amount of expenditure which is going to take place in the community, whether it is expenditure by State government, local government or the Commonwealth Government. There is no magical way of raising money for expenditure by local government or by State government. It all has to come ultimately out of taxes, and to argue that rates should be kept down and that the money should come from elsewhere is simply to indulge, in my view, in a confidence trick because if rates are kept down and the money is found from the Commonwealth, that simply means that income tax or some other form of tax has to be raised which, just like rates, is an impost on the community and something which the community may not wish to bear. 
The Senate has been debating for an hour and a quarter a Bill on which in a sense there is unanimity. The Opposition is not opposing the Bill. It is simply indicating why it regards the overall provisions relating to local government as inadequate. I think the debate has been of some value because it does underline the different approach between the Opposition and the Government in this area and indeed in wider areas.  Senator Gietzelt  conceded in his speech the right of local people to decide whether they wanted to have more or less activity in their local government area, and the right to decide therefore whether they wanted to have higher or lower rates, and I agree with him. That is a right which I think the democratically elected local governing authority ought to have. Surely that is the essence of local government- that people will locally make that decision for themselves. They will make a choice. It seems to me again it is something less than fair or less than honest to say that that is a choice that they will make if we maintain a situation in which the central government stands ready, while they maintain their low rates, to provide any auxiliary assistance that they wish to have on some mysterious needs basis. If the Opposition really believes that the community ought to be making conscious and sensible choices about levels of taxation and levels of expenditure, and if the Opposition really believes that people ought to be balancing what they want out of government-be it Commonwealth, State or local government- with what they are prepared to pay in taxes, then I think honourable senators will agree with the philosophy that this Government has brought to bear in this area rather than the philosophy which was brought to bear by the previous Government. 
There has been an attempt to suggest that the provision of funds under this Bill amounts to some reduction in assistance for local government when in fact the general purpose assistance grants for local government have been increased from less than $80m in the last year of the Labor Government in the 1975-76 Budget, to in excess of $ 165m this financial year. Quite clearly that is a doubling of that category of grant-the general purpose grant- and it would require some extraordinary stretch of imagination to suggest there has been a reduction. What a number of Labor speakers, including  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Gietzelt,  have gone on to do has been to refer to the multiplicity of special purpose grants which have flowed through to local authorities over a 5-year period and to say that the total grants to local government have declined since 1975-76. They have failed notably to draw attention to the fact that in 1975-76, out of the total of $275m which table 98 at page 113 of Budget document No. 7 shows as the total amount going to local government, fully $93,994,000 was for payments to local government under the RED scheme. Obviously the deduction of that quite massive figure makes an enormous difference. 
-Senator Gietzelt interjects that that was included in the local authorities' budgets, and that is not a matter that I am contesting. The point is, of course, that that scheme is one which the Labor Government itself discontinued, and it discontinued the scheme in the face of massive protests from the Australian community about the waste and inefficiency involved in it. As I move around the areas of Western Australia and see some of the extraordinary works which were undertaken by the local governments under the RED scheme I better understand the protests which I received through 1974, 1975 and 1976 about the waste involved in that program. I believe that the present Government has very sensibly maintained Labor's decision to give away the RED scheme. That sort of unproductive work is essentially of a band-aid nature and will make no long term contribution to the welfare of either the work force, the economy or the community. Therefore to suggest, as  Senator Gietzelt  has, that if payments are maintained at the level set by the last Labor Government local government would be receiving in excess of $300m is quite specious, in my view. 
I am glad to hear from  Senator Gietzelt  that he has visited Western Australia and that he has visited some local authorities. I hope that he would have heard, as I have heard so often from persons active in local government in Western Australia, the objection they had to many of the schemes put forward by the Labor Party during its few years in office. One of the things which most struck me when I was a candidate to enter this place and when I first entered it while Labor was in government was the extent of the dissatisfaction in local government with the requirements that the Commonwealth Government imposed upon it in return for the funds it received. I do not believe that local government wishes to go back to the Labor system. Rather, my impression from the local authorities I visit in Western Australia is that they are delighted to receive the greater financial independence that the present system offers them and that they wish it to continue. 
This Bill provides for no more than an adjustment in the percentage shares between the various States of the 1.52 per cent of income tax revenues that are to be received by local government. It is notable that after one year of operating on the share basis established by last year's Act the States went along with the complaint from Tasmania that it was not receiving an adequate share and there was support for reference back to the Grants Commission of the division of funds. This Bill provides for the revision of shares, which involves a reduction for some States, principally New South Wales, although other States including my own suffer small percentage reductions. It says a lot for the reputation of the Grants Commission that the Bill comes before us without any great objection from any State about the amendment which has been made. I for one am pleased that the Grants Commission has been able to satisfy the States as well as it apparently has. 
The Bill does raise the issue which has been canvassed this afternoon during the last hour and a half, namely, the philosophy to be brought to the whole question of government and the decentralisation of government by those of us who govern from Canberra. From that point of view, the debate is therefore a cameo of the differences which separate honourable senators on this side of the House from honourable senators on the other side. I am thoroughly in support of the Government in its proposal to make local governments more independent, both of Canberra and indeed of State governments, by ensuring that they receive adequate funds to carry out their own functions and are able to make their own decisions about how they will use those funds. But I do not believe that it is a function of this Government to proceed on the basis of a whole lot of airy fairy schemes which are based on some totally subjective concept of needs and which remove from local government, or indeed from State governments when they apply to State government programs, any need to assess priorities. I believe it is fundamental that both local governments and State governments should have amounts of money which they determine they will spend according to their priorities. 
If we adopt the approach that was advocated, I am sure in the best possible faith, by  Senator Gietzelt  and in less detail by  Senator Wriedt,  if we adopt the approach that both State and local governments will simply trot up to the Commonwealth with a shopping list of what they see as their needs, and then proceed to beg, cajole or force money from the central government, we will wind up in Australia with a situation where government expenditure will remain wildly out of control. Unless we have a situation where the three tiers of government are forced to determine their own priorities within their own budgets, I do not believe we will have a proper government at all in Australia. I think that that is quite fundamental to good government, and I hope that the Government in its implementation of the federalism policy will insist that to the greatest possible extent there will be a reliance on funds which are raised by the body which is spending them. To the extent that those funds are to be augmented by taxes raised federally, I hope that those taxes will be provided free of conditions to whatever tier of government is concerned, but on the basis that that government will then set about governing its people in accordance with priorities it is prepared to defend at the polls. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President,  and relates to the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I ask: Do you think the poor attendance of the Press can be attributed to the poor standard of questioning of Ministers by the Opposition? 
I ask the Minister for Education and Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: Has he seen reports of the Budget brought down in Western Australia yesterday by  Sir Charles  Court? How does that Budget fit in with the Minister's recent claims that the revenue sharing grants made under the new federalism policy have given the States the ability to make both tax reductions and generous provisions for education? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and arises, in a way, from the question asked by  Senator Mulvihill.  I ask: Has the Minister read the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning? Has he read an article in it headed: 'Carrick Denies Program Cuts', dealing with the adult migrant education program? Is it true that the  Sydney Morning Herald's  education reporter again confirms her original report in yesterday's  Herald  that there has been a 5.8 per cent cut in real terms in Commonwealth funds to the New South Wales Adult Migrant Education Service? Will the Minister clarify the situation and again set out the true position with respect to the Commonwealth's generous treatment of the New South Wales Adult Migrant Education Service? 
-My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to newspaper reports that legal aid officers have been instructed to apply strictly the means test guidelines governing the granting of legal aid. Has there been any reduction in the funding of legal aid? What action is being taken by the Government to ensure that legal aid is available to those in need? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a report in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  newspaper of yesterday that the Federal Government plans to scrap its legislation linking pensions to the consumer price index. The article goes on, quite correctly in my view, to say that this development is a major achievement of the Government and one of its proudest reforms. Is there any truth in the report that the Government is planning to scrap the legislation? 
I present the following petition from 79 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Prime Minister and the Federal Government voice emphatic protest to the Vietnamese Government about the continued imprisonment of the Most Rev. Francis Nguen Van Thuan, Co-adjutor Archbishop of Saigon, and call for his immediate release. 
We also call on the Federal Government to enquire into the whereabouts and wellbeing of Archbishop Thuan who has been under house arrest since15 August 1 975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he has seen a report in the Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  of 16 October, stating that the Federal Government is considering a radical plan to give parents money vouchers to pay for their children's education. I ask: Are officers of the Commonwealth Department of 
Education investigating these new proposals as reported in the  Sunday Telegraph?  If so, will the Munster inform the Senate what progress has been made with them? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 
-There have been two misrepresentations by my opposite number which are not up to the usual high standard I have learned to expect of the Opposition Whip. I advised the Opposition precisely when the gag was to be imposed. In fact, there was an extension of the period I orginally indicated would be allowed before the gag was moved by the 
Government. I regret that the position has been put before you,  Mr President,  in this way. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland) -I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refer to the report in today's  Australian  newspaper that the Government has given its support to an application by  Ms Elizabeth  Reid for a senior United Nations position. Can he confirm that  Ms Reid  has applied for a job? Does she have Government support in that application? Has she applied for the job as an individual or does she have some status as a 
Commonwealth public servant? If the former is the case- that is, if she has applied as an individual- is it usual for the Commonwealth Government to indicate support for such an application? If the latter is the case-that is, if she is applying as a Commonwealth public servantwere other Commonwealth public servants given the opportunity to apply? Is it normal practice to advertise United Nations job vacancies in Australia? 
The last two speeches have been very interesting, because they have indicated how greatly out of touch is the Opposition with the Australian people who, I have no doubt, regard any legislation in this field as extremely urgent and probably overdue. It also sits ill in the mouth of a gentleman who supported a guillotine put down by  Senator Murphy  to push through 42 
Bills in about a day and a half. A wonderful exhibition of legislating! In my opinion, it is quite clear that we should proceed to spend the time that is available to us on the business of the chamber and not in arguing about whether we have the time to do it. In furtherance of that, I move: 
That the motion be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr President, I direct a supplementary question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Most honourable senators, like  Senator Withers,  are unaccustomed to reading long legal agreements. Will he tell the Senate whether what he has read means that the Australian Labor Party two years ago was supporting the mining and milling of uranium? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the answer he gave yesterday to a question asked by  Senator Wood  about uranium.  Senator Withers  said:   it is true that during the term of the Whitlam Government encouragement was given to mining companies to mine and export uranium. 

 Senator Withers also referred to the Labor Government taking 50 per cent of the capital in Peko Wallsend Ltd for 70 per cent subscription. I ask the Minister: As these facts sit oddly with the Labor Opposition's present stance on mining and export of uranium, can he confirm that the Labor Government led by  Mr Whitlam  did in fact have this quite different attitude when it was recently in office? Can he give the Senate any further particulars about this quite extraordinarily different attitude that honourable senators opposite were supporting a couple of years ago? 

 - Mr President, I direct a supplementary question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the conditions raised, by way of interjection, by Opposition senators during the answer to my question. I ask: Is it a fact that the conditions raised by them in fact have been satisfied by the present Government? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has he seen the transcript of  This Day Tonight  of yesterday in which is recorded a question that was asked of  Mr Whitlam  by Lindy Jenkins of Elwood, a suburb of Melbourne. In her question Miss Jenkins said that when listening to the Senate broadcast yesterday she had heard a senator say that in Perth two years ago  Mr Whitlam  had signed a statement saying that he would like to see uranium mined. She asked for some clarification of that from  Mr Whitlam. Mr Whitlam  's reply was: 
No. I have never said anything of the sort. What I have said on uranium has been said in the Parliament, and in recent months I have also spoken to several gatherings outside the Parliament. But I have never signed a statement like that. What 1 have done in the Parliament of course and as Prime Minister, was to persuade  Mr Justice  Fox to chair an enquiry . . . 
And so the answer goes on. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has  Mr Whitlam  ever said anything of the sort- that he would like to see uranium mined? Has he ever made any other statements to that effect outside the Parliament? Can he give the Senate details of such statements? 
The last  speaker  made it quite clear that in any consideration of these redistributions members of the Australian Labor Party are guided by the noble principle that if they think a redistribution vaguely favours them they will support it but if they think there are any elements not in their favour they will oppose it. I would have to disagree with that noble sentiment. The points made by  Senator Walsh  with respect to the Western Australian redistribution are points of detail. He said that what has been done in a couple of cases does not suit the Labor Party. I would suggest that that is not really the test. I believe unless it can be shown that in some sense the redistribution is improper, this Parliament ought to endorse it. The principle of the Electoral Act is to provide independent people with the power to draw up boundaries and to make a redistribution based on certain stated principles. That independence ought not to be interfered with unless there is some evident impropriety, and clearly there is no impropriety in this case. 
It is interesting too that the Australian Labor Party should object to a redistribution which followed the redistribution made while it was in power which had the happy effect of returning nine Liberal and one Labor member to the House of Representatives. There were some little oddities in that redistribution, such as the Applecross Peninsula being put into the electorate of Swan rather than into the electorate of Tangney which meant that to get from one end of Swan to another one would have to get into a rowing boat, or perhaps a power boat if one was lucky, because there was no direct connection between the two parts of the electorate of Swan. Despite an inconsistency of that sort, which certainly did not favour the Liberal Party, I seem to recall that the then Liberal-Country Party Opposition did not try to defeat that redistribution. 

 Senator Walsh made a lot of the position of Kalgoorlie. I thought that the Government and the Opposition had agreed that divisions in the House of Representatives should be drawn on the basis of a maximum 10 per cent differential in place of the former 20 per cent differential. When looking at the redistribution in Western Australia it is clear that electorates such as Moore and Canning which border the metropolitan area of Perth are those which have rapidly growing populations. With the narrow differential of 10 per cent which is now permitted under the Act it is not possible to make much allowance for the growth which will occur in Moore and Canning and it is necessary, therefore, to have more than the quota in a electorate such as Kalgoorlie notwithstanding its area. Its large area is something which does not seem to faze the present member,  Mr Cotter,  who unlike his predecessor has the vigour and energy to get around the electorate. The fact is that the principle which  Senator Walsh  has loudly espoused in the Senate in the past, the principle that electorates should be as nearly as possible at the quota, requires that the electorate of Kalgoorlie should be above quota if a balance is to be maintained, and the inclusion of the areas to which the honourable senator has referred can be related to that principle and not to anything sinister as he would have the Senate believe. 
When we start imputing doubtful motives to those who have done the redistribution it is worth bearing in mind who they are. The proposal which is at present before the Senate reveals that the first of the commissioners was  Mr 
S. Nicholls, the electoral officer for the Western Australian Division and the person appointed by the Labor Government to conduct the last redistribution. As far as I know there is no suggestion by anybody in this Parliament that  Mr Nicholls  is a man who is in any sense biased. 
The honourable senator can make allegations about whomever he likes - 
That is a most interesting and serious allegation - 
It fascinates me that such interesting and serious allegations are made only by way of interjection. The public can judge the seriousness with which such allegations are made when they are made only by way of interjection. The second of the distribution commissioners in Western Australia was  Mr J.  F. Morgan who is the Surveyor-General for the State of Western Australia. He was not appointed by the Labor Government for the last redistribution. As I recall it, the public explanation given by the then responsible Minister was that he was not appointed because he was on leave. Hence, his  deputy  was appointed a distribution commissioner. Once again do we have an allegation that in some way  Mr Morgan  is biased in this matter? The third of the commissioners is  Mr A.  E. Tonks, the Auditor-General in Western Australia who has served both Liberal and Labor governments without complaint, as far as I know. So I take the allegations of  Senator Walsh  with a grain of salt. What he is suggesting is that these commissioners have brought in shires such as Yalgoo, Carnamah and Perenjori just to benefit the Liberal Party and there is absolutely no basis in fact for such allegations. 
I support the redistribution. I must say that I was a little concerned when it was first issued because until the Labor Party endorsed its candidates I thought that it might succeed in winning a seat from the Liberal Party in the coming election. Fortunately its carry-on over  Mrs Stokes  has made it clear that it has no great confidence that it can win back even the electorate of Swan. It may be, therefore, that this redistribution although fair will result in nine seats going to the Liberal Party once again. If that is the case then the Labor Party will have to bear its share of the blame. 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall my question last week about the change of attitude towards uranium mining by the Leader of the Opposition? Does the Leader of the Government recall that  Mr Whitlam  denied that he had said that he would like to see uranium mined? Does this statement by  Mr Whitlam  accord with the facts? Has  Mr Whitlam  ever said that he would like to see uranium mined? 
-I present the following petition from 3,575 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure : 
That the Prime Minister and the Federal Government voice emphatic protest to the Vietnamese Government about the continued imprisonment of the Most Rev. Francis Nguyen Van Thuan, Co-adjutor Archbishop of Saigon, and call for his immediate release. 
We also call on the Federal Government to enquire into the whereabouts and well being of Archbishop Thuan who has been under house arrest since August 15 1 975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General in both that capacity and as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a complaint that I received by telegram from the Farmers Union of Western Australia, that the constitution and rules of the Waterside Workers Federation expressly exclude Asiatics from membership of that union. Will the Minister investigate that matter and ascertain, firstly, whether the constitution and rules do so provide; secondly, whether such a provision is in accordance with industrial law in this country; and, thirdly, if it is, will he refer the matter to the Commissioner for Community Relations? 
This debate has been the usual debate on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill in that it has embraced a miscellany of odd items, but there has been one consistent thread through many of the speeches that have been made in the chamber this afternoon and this evening. That consistent thread has been supplied mainly by South Australian senators from the Australian Labor Party, who have endeavoured to discredit  Senator Steele  Hall. I think the enthusiasm with which they have tried to do that indicates the very great fear that they have of him as a candidate for the seat of Hawker. I have no doubt that over the next three or four days that remain in the sittings before we rise for the election they will keep up that effort and that the strength of the effort will simply mirror their own fears in relation to the seat of Hawker. 
Honourable senators opposite have derived a great deal of glee in the expressions and quotations that they have used, which have gone back to 1975. We have heard a whole series of quotations in which  Senator Steele  Hall was critical of the then Opposition and the then Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers.  Honourable senators opposite have relished using those quotations. They have done so in a way that has suggested that that sort of criticism is something that would emanate only from  Senator Steele  Hall or someone on this side of the chamber. How conveniently they have forgotten the comments of their own leader, Gough Whitlam, about one year ago in a program which received a great deal of publicity throughout Australia and in which he referred to a number of honourable senators opposite, including, I think, the last  speaker- Senator Cavanagh.  I refer to the  A Current Affair  program of 25 October 1976 when Mike Carlton said to  Mr Whitiam: 
Would some members of your parliamentary party believe you to be a handicap? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Some would but not the coming ones. The 'has-beens' say that. They like to blame me for their own failures as well as I suppose my own. 
When Mike Carlton pressed  Mr Whitlam  and asked him: 
Who are the has-beens- Cairns? 

 Mr Whitlam very discreetly said: 
I will not specify them. 
But he did get a bit more specific a little later in the interview. Perhaps a couple of the honourable senators opposite who fit this description will squirm in their seats. Mike Carlton went on to say: 
You are not going to name names obviously but are there too many of yesterday's men still in the Parliamentary Labor Party. 

 Mr Whitlam said: 
There is too big a percentage maybe but let me point out that the ones who are on the executive now are not only younger on average than the present Ministers, and they are able people. 
So  Mr Whitlam  very carefully distinguished between the present front bench members of the Labor Party and the past ones. Therefore I congratulate  Senator Button  for presumably escaping the condemnation of  Mr Whitlam.  Unfortunately his condemnation would seem to take in people like  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Bishop,  who have been so vocal this afternoon in condemning  Senator Steele  Hall. When the people who have been branded by their parliamentary leader as yesterday's men- people who are regularly reported in the newspapers as leading revolts against their parliamentary leader and as being desperately anxious to depose him -get up and go back to  Senator Steele  Hall's comments of November 1 975, 1 for one laugh. 
It is an absolutely pathetic effort for them to paper over the cracks in their own creaking organisation and to cover up the panic that they feel at facing the people yet again. I would say that the members of the public of Australia who wanted to hear a group of desperate men in action had only to tune into the radio this afternoon and hear yesterday's men damning one of tomorrow's men-  Senator Steele  Hall. I look forward to the incisive contributions that Senate Steele Hall has made in this chamber being made in another place next year, to the great discomfort of the Labor Party. I know that the electors of Hawker will relish having a good, independent minded South Australian representing them in that seat. As we have been touching upon the uranium debate, I should think also that the electors of Hawker who might carefully have read some of  Mr Jacobi  's speeches on uranium and seen the quite sensible views that he has expressed on that topic- sensible views that he cannot support in a vote because of the attitude of the Labor Caucus to the mining of uranium- would realise that it would be better to be represented by a man who can vote where his mind is rather than by a man who is forced by the rules of the Labor Caucus to vote with the majority of his colleagues. 
I entered into this debate because an honourable senator opposite rose to refute allegations that he claimed that I had made about the Waterside Workers Federation. I would like to put the record straight. I did not make allegations about the Waterside Workers Federation. This afternoon during Question Time I asked a question about the Waterside Workers Federation. I was careful to give the basis on which my question was asked. My question quite clearly sought information and did not make allegations. I will read the question that I asked. Honourable senators might ask why there is this interest in the Waterside Workers Federation, particularly by the Farmers Union of Western Australia, which is the source of my information. I would therefore remind the Senate that it is the Waterside Workers Federation that, in a highly moralistic way, is refusing to export wheat to Indonesia because the Western Australian branch of the Waterside Workers Federation apparently has determined that we should not export foodstuffs to that country because the Waterside Workers Federation disagrees with certain aspects of Indonesia's foreign policy. I shall repeat the question that I asked this afternoon. I shall read from the pinks that were delivered to me by  Hansard,  which are the  Hansard  record to date. I said: 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General in both that capacity and as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to a complaint that I received by telegram from the Farmers Union of western Australia, that the constitution and rules of the Waterside Workers Federation expressly exclude Asiatics from membership of that union. 
Having said that that was the information I had received I went on to say: 
Will the Minister investigate that matter and ascertain, firstly, whether the Constitution and rules do so provide; secondly, whether such a provision is in accordance with industrial law in this country; and, thirdly, if it is - 
And by ' if it is ' I meant, and I think it is clear, if it is in the constitution- 
. will he refer the matter to the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
I make no apology for raising that question in the Senate. The matter is one of public importance. It is a matter which I think is properly brought before the Government. I am fascinated by the telex which has been sent by  Mr Fitzgibbon,  the General Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation. Let me say immediately that I welcome the denial of  Mr Fitzgibbon  that that is still in the rules. I welcome the fact that in 1954, according to this telex, that particular rule, which until that time apparently was part of the constitution and rules of the Waterside Workers Federation - 
-It was 1954. We are told by  Mr Fitzgibbon  that it was removed in 1954. However, with extraordinary efficiency, I find from this telex that while a certificate of change was forwarded by the Industrial Registrar, due to an error in the Industrial Registrar's Department the rule was not changed. The error was npt brought to attention until 1967. So apparently it was a mere 13 years before the error was discovered. We are told that the Federation rule books carried the amended rule and when the error was discovered a request was made by the Federation for the Registrar to correct the error. The Federation made application to the Registrar for a rule change and this was done as recently as 6 July 1973. 
So it would seem that this obnoxious rule which prohibited Asiatics from membership of the Waterside Workers Federation was changed formally on 6 July 1 973. It would also appear from the telegram I have received from the Farmers Union of Western Australia that the deletion of that obnoxious rule has yet to appear in the registry in Perth. Apparently a search has revealed that it is still shown as a rule ofthe Federation in that State. 
I would like to make it quite clear to the Senate that I in no way apologise for raising the matter here. I welcome the fact, if it is a fact- at the moment I accept the telex on its face value- that this obnoxious rule has been removed. I would simply say that in this area, as in any other, I will continue to be extremely hostile about any evidence of racial discrimination in our country which contains a large multi-racial element. 
While I am on my feet I would like to raise a couple of other matters. The first is the recent Premiers Conference. The Premiers Conference held in the week before last is a classic illustration of why this country ought to proceed, and will proceed, under a Liberal and National Country Party Government in Canberra and why it would be an utter disaster if we were to get another Labor Government. I draw the attention of the Senate to the accord which was evident in the Premiers Conference in Canberra. As a Western Australia senator I welcome the fact that in one of the most vexed and difficult areas of Commonwealth-State relations, namely the question of off-shore jurisdiction, the Commonwealth and the States have at last agreed on a procedure which will ensure that off-shore development can proceed in Australia without the bitterness and disputation that marked the period of the Labor Government. I think there would be very few in this Senate who have forgotten the fact or who would be prepared to ignore the fact that one of the major developments which could have kept this country at a high tempo of economic progress, namely, the development of off-shore gas facilities off the north-west coast of Western Australia, was brought to complete halt by the inanity and stupidity ofthe previous Government. Who will forget the decision that gas would be purchased at well head by the government at a price not nominated? Who will forget the fact that exploration in the off-shore areas totally ceased? Who in this place would not welcome the fact that at last the Commonwealth and the States have been able to agree on an co-operative basis for a continuation of development? After the Premiers Conference was concluded the announcement was made that the Commonwealth and the States would proceed on the basis of joint administration which will leave the day to day administration in the hands of the State authorities. This is something which I, as a senator from Western Australia, warmly welcome. 
I use this occasion to remind the people of Australia that if we want Australia to develop economically we will have to depend upon resource development in the next 10 years. Resource development will simply not occur if we still have the Labor Party making threatening noises about voiding State granted leases and taking action which would prevent investors from proceeding with these great developments. I think we have reached a point in Australia's economic recovery where it is quite clear that the continuation of the present Government's policies with respect to the States will enable us to move on to a far better plateau of economic activity whereas a return to a Labor government almost certainly will reduce us to the stage of confusion and doubt which existed in 1974 and 1975, to our continuing economic cost. 
I would like to touch on one very small matter before I refer to something that I wish to urge upon the Government. I would like to say something about  Senator Cavanagh  's attempted explanation of  Mr E.  G. Whitlam 's behaviour on a This Day Tonight program on 26 October. This matter has been raised in the Senate on a number of occasions during Question Time. It was explained away by  Senator Cavanagh  on the basis that  Mr Whitlam  was simply denying that he had signed a statement in Perth. I am prepared to agree that  Mr Whitlam  did not sign a statement in Perth because I do not think  Mr Whitlam  visited Perth more than about twice. As I recall, he was run out of town on one of those two occasions. But in any event, what  Mr Whitlam  said in response to that question was not that he had not signed an agreement in Perth. Oh no, he went well beyond that. He said: 
No. I have never said anything of the sort. What I have said on uranium has been said in the Parliament' . . . 
He went on to say: 
But I have never signed a statement like that. What I have done in the Parliament of course and as Prime Minister, was to persuade  Mr Justice  Fox to chair an inquiry . . . 
Of course, that is clear deception. What has been shown in this Senate over the past week is that  Mr Whitlam  actively pursued the development of uranium mining. The agreement he signed has been produced in the Senate. The Press release he issued as Prime Minister has been produced. The list of projects that his Government was to spend all those borrowings on, including uranium milling and mining plants, has been produced. I am sick to death of the arrant nonsense put forward in this chamber in explanation of  Mr Whitlam  's statement the other night. It is quite clear that the Labor Party has done a complete about face on this matter. It has turned from the view which is held by the trade union movement in the United Kingdom, the view which is held by the United Kingdom Government, the view which is held by this Government and the view which it held two years ago. It is seeking to run a scare campaign on uranium and that is simply pathetic. The best illustration of how pathetic it is, is for honourable senators to bear in mind the sort of countries that are seeking to buy our uranium. They are not countries that are in any way inferior to Australia. They are the most technologically developed and sophisticated countries in the world, countries which have made the independent decision that they require nuclear power for their welfare and the welfare of their people, their workers and their industry. It is pathetic that the Labor Party should take the view that it can be the judge of what is good for Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and Sweden. I think that the amount of cant that is spoken on this issue has to be heard to be believed. 
I turn from berating the Labor Party to urging some action by my own Government. In July I spent some time in the pastoral areas of Western Australia which at present are stricken by drought. That drought is having a severe effect on those engaged in the pastoral industry not only as principals but as employees. The particular concern that I have following my visit to that area, and following conversations with pastoralists and their wives, both personally and on the radio, is that the Aboriginal community which is presently engaged in that industry is suffering very badly from the economic effects of the drought. I would like to quote from a letter which I received from a  Mrs S.  L. Senior who is on a station out of Sandstone, Western Australia, which is in a very remote part of that State. She originally raised the question of Aboriginal employment with me on radio on 1 5 July. I should like to quote parts of her letter, in which she points out: 
Due to less available finance, there is and will be less money available to pay employees on drought affected stations, therefore some will be, or have been, put off. 
To remain efficient, regardless of seasonal conditions, general maintenance must be carried out on fencing, watering facilities and machinery. 
Good white station hands are rare jewels and therefore retained as long as financially possible, so the first to go are the Aboriginals. 
Work is always available, but not so money. If money is available, capable experienced station hands are first to get the available jobs, especially in drought times, when work done for money paid out is of prime importance, and as damage done to machinery and weak stock can be extreme in the hands of inexperienced labour, even when supervised, and cheaper. Thus it is unlikely that properties will employ new men under the current financially assisted plan for the unemployed. 
Aboriginal families on stations are generally housed more hygienically and have a better and more nourishing diet than when out of work and living in local towns. 
I interpolate that, from my visits to those local towns, I would agree with that statement.  Mrs Senior  continues:   . . thus they remain healthier in the bush, thus relieving the medical services of the area of much expense. 
My suggestion is that the Federal Government make some financial arrangements whereby these worthwhile members of the work force can be retained in their present jobs, and not sent to join the lengthening list of unemployed on social security payments. These people would prefer to work for the money they receive, and do not want to lose their homes, security and dignity. 
In my view, that last sentence contains some very important points. The Aborigines, who have worked for a long time on these stations and who are on award wages, find in their work not only their salaries but also their homes and, I believe, their security and their dignity. I think it is common knowledge that in those areas of Western Australia the Aborigines who have left the stations and are not able to find employment in the towns very quickly lose their dignity. Living on social services, they seek solace in drink and very soon become absolutely wasted members of the community, both to themselves and to anybody else. 
The fact of the matter is that at the moment there are people who are still in employment but whose employers simply are not able to continue that employment. I have made a request to the Government, as I know that various pastoralists also have made submissions to the Government, that some scheme be devised to assist those who are presently in employment to remain in employment during the difficult times of drought. I know that this matter has been examined by the Government and that it is concerned at the potential breadth of any program that might be undertaken in this field. The Government is concerned about the possibilities of any scheme that related only to Aborigines, and I understand that concern. There are problems of discrimination, the white backlash and so on, which are already quite evident in those area. I understand that one could not geographically restrict a scheme of this sort to the State of Western Australia. It would be quite improper for a national government to do that. I know that it would be difficult to slot in this sort of scheme with the other manpower programs the Government has undertaken. But I say very seriously to the Government that this problem requires attention. I believe that the people involved differ from others who face unemployment due to difficulties in the rural or other industries because it is unlikely that they will be able to make the adjustment into some other industry, as those others might be able to do. I spoke only today to somebody with a lot of experience in this area. He said that the problem with Europeans was very limited because the displaced employees were generally very resourceful types who would find it relatively easy to fit into another occupation, be it in the city or in another rural area. The problem is quite different for the Aboriginal population, who do not wish to go to the city and are likely merely to drift into the regional centres, where the only outlet for their energies is likely to be in the bars of the hotels. 
As I understand it, if a scheme was introduced which applied to taxation zones A and B, an estimated 1,000 Aboriginal employees would be involved. A scheme that paid employers a supplement equal to the unemployed single rate benefit would cost no more than about $2.Sm in a full year. I suspect that the payout would be considerably less than that because some of the Aborigines are already employed on Aboriginalowned properties, which are subject to certain government subsidies or support schemes in any event. The difficulty arises when one extends the scheme to non-Aborigines. The estimates there indicate that some 10,000 people would be involved and hence the cost would go to approximately $2 5 m if the scheme were restricted to the pastoral industry. If it were extended to the whole of primary industry, 20,000 people would be involved at a cost of approximately $50m. If it dealt with all workers, believe it or not, about one million people would be involved and the scheme would obviously become quite impossible. I put it to the Government that, in the light of the peculiar problems faced by the people about whom I am concerned and about whom I have spoken, a scheme could be devised on which limits could be placed, although not on a racial basis, which would prevent it from being too large but which would meet the particular problems. 
I offer as suggestions the following limitations: Firstly, the scheme should be limited to taxation zones A and B; secondly, the scheme should be limited to areas which are declared as drought affected; thirdly, it should apply only to people who are already in employment and who have a steady history of employment. In other words, they are not casuals just for the moment but are employed in what might be regarded as a permanent way in that industry. Next, the people should be subjected to the test that it is unlikely that they would be employed in another industry. I think that would be a sensible non-racial discrimination to impose. It would be a test which would tend to pick up more Aborigines than whites, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. Essentially, the test would be: What are the prospects of these people being successfully placed elsewhere. Next, it should be a requirement that their employment is threatened by drought, by some external economic circumstance, and not merely that the whole operation is non-viable in any event. Lastly, the program should be limited in time. It could be applied for perhaps 12 calendar months, firstly, to see whether it is effective and, secondly, because the continuance of the drought beyond 12 months might well mean that the industry is going to fall to the ground anyway. 
I put forward that suggestion in this first reading debate when the opportunity is given to us to speak on any subject. I put it forward now because the suggestion I am talking about has been floating around since July.  Mrs Senior  states in her letter, and of course this may be the end of the whole matter I am putting forward: 
This is a matter of some urgency, such as now, not three months hence when it will be too late. 
It is now three months hence, but I believe from my inquiries that there are still people who would be saved from going on the scrap heap if a scheme such as this were instituted. I urge the Government not to pay too much heed to the difficulties which exist in the way of implementing a program of this sort but to bend its attentions to finding means to meet the needs of a group of Australians. Those people either will go on being contributing, sensible and good members of the Australian community or, if they are cast aside, will simply become derelicts who will be pan of the shame that we have for the failures we have experienced with our Aboriginal people. 

 The document read as follows- 

SENALP AA62659 WATFED AA25645 
4.20 PM November 2nd 1977 JM ATT  Senator Wriedt 
Re question raised in Senate re Federation rules old federation rule prohibiting Asiatics from joining union was changed in 1954 and certificate of change forwarded to federation by industrial registrar however due to error in industrial registrars department rule change was not entered into registrars record book. Error was not brought to attention until 1967. All federation rule books had carried amended rule. When error discovered request made by federation for registrar to correct their error registrar advised not possible and federation then made immediate application to the registrar for a rule change to correct the erroneous situation which had arisen as a result of industrial registrars department error. 
In decision 6 July 1973 R No. 153 of 1968 registrar granted rule change sought. Note application for the rule change had been filed on 12 September 1968. Since 1954 many residents of Australia of Asian extraction have been admitted to membership and continued as members of waterside workers federation. 
Fitzgibbon General Secretary 
SENALP AA62659 
-Can the AttorneyGeneral give the Senate any further information about the matter concerning the Waterside Workers Federation which I raised in Question Time yesterday? 
-I seek the leave of the Senate to table an extract from a transcript of  This Day Tonight  interview on 26 October 1977 from which I quoted in the Senate last night. Last night  Senator Wriedt  asked me to table the document from which I had quoted and I tabled the transcript of another interview- that of a program on  A Current Affair  on 26 October 1976- from which I also had quoted. That is why I have sought leave now to table the document. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 - Mr President, I wish to enter very briefly into the debate on your rulings. I draw the attention of the Senate to page 152 of the latest edition of  Australian Senate Practice  which I think bears out the arguments that were put before the Senate by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  In the fourth paragraph under the heading 'Courtesies of Debate'- which I think is a particularly apt heading because matters of courtesy in respect of this subject seem to have gone by the boardafter reference to the use of the name of the sovereign, members of the Royal Family and the Governor-General, the following statement is made: 
No reflection on the conduct of the Governor-General may be cast unless based upon a substantive motion and not by way of amendment. 
It seems to me that this is an area in which numerous attempts have been made to make references when no substantive motion is before the chamber. I think that your ruling,  Mr President,  is most timely. I think that aspect of what is reported in  Australian Senate Practice  is most appropriate. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and relates to the announced surplus of Telecom Australia for 1976- 77 of $ 164.4m. I refer to public comments about Telecom charges in the light of that surplus. I ask the Minister what those figures mean in terms of the future trading operations of Telecom. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I note reports in the media this morning that the 
Opposition has been obtaining legal advice about how to avoid the constitutional difficulty it faced when in government in 1975. Noting that the Labor Party seems to be devoting its rather meagre attention to the problems of two years ago, I ask the Leader of the Government: Can he assure the Senate that this Government is concerned with Australia's present needs and its needs in 1978, unlike the Opposition, which is simply fiddling around with yesterday's problems? 
I wish to speak briefly because what  Senator Georges  has done is raise the question of arrangements between the Whips which, as I understand it, is not a matter for discussion in the Senate. Such arrangements have no formal status in the Senate and it becomes a matter of embarrassment when there are allegations that there has been some departure from arrangements. It becomes an embarrassment which it is impossible to resolve in the public arena. I simply put on record that as far as I am concerned the normal procedure in this place will be followed and if the Opposition chooses to indicate whether it has speakers on a Bill I will follow my normal practice of providing you,  Mr President,  with a list which shows the names of those honourable senators who it has been indicated to me have an interest in speaking. Of course, whether or not you call those honourable senators is a ma'ter for your discretion, as it always is, but I suppose you would have no objection to my saying that in 99 cases out of 100-1 can think of only one exception in the last two years- you follow the list that has been given to you. 
I say to anyone who is concerned about the matters which have been raised by  Senator Georges  that if while we have debating time there is an indication to me that there are Opposition senators wishing to speak that fact will be made known to the  President  by me in the normal course. One of the unfortunate things about parliamentary proceedings when the chamber is under pressure is as to time. I agree with  Senator Georges  that at the completion of each of the sittings with which he and I have been associated there has been heavy pressure of legislation in the last couple of days. But it is unfortunate that so much of the limited time - 
The honourable senator interjects, 'Whose fault is that?'. But, of course, in such a situation no government has been without fault. It is no good referring back to situations in the past such as when the then  Senator Murphy  closed the debate on 43 Bills. It is a fact that in every session of the Senate I have ever attended- half of those were while the Australian Labor Party was in government and half have been while our parties have been in governmentthe same problem concerning the passing of legislation has arisen. The only additional point I wanted to make, before that interjection interfered with my train of thought, was that it is extraordinary when we are in this situation that so much of the available time is spent on technical matters, whether they be the calling of quorums or argument about the procedures which are being followed. This limits still further the amount of time that can be spent on debate. I simply say to the Opposition that if we are to have any sensible debate on any of the matters which remain before us, we ought to make that our objective. 
Amendment negatived. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bills. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Has the Government been asked by the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation to provide air conditioning in open plan schools in the Australian Capital Territory? Has the Government refused the request? Is the Minister aware of the very much higher temperatures endured in other parts of Australia such as in my city of Perth in Western Australia, not to mention numerous centres in Western Australia to the north and east of that city? Will the Minister assure the Senate that funds provided by taxpayers throughout the Commonwealth will not be used to provide air conditioning in Australian Capital Territory, schools unless Commonwealth funds are provided for air conditioning in schools throughout the hotter areas of the Commonwealth? 
I address my question to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen a newspaper report that the Queensland Government has banned a social sciences program in its schools? Can he say whether the report is correct? Can he say what is the nature and the origin of the program? 
I rise with great pleasure to support the motion in relation to the Address-in-Reply. That pleasure is enhanced by the fact that we will be delivering the Address-in-Reply to the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, a man who has by his career demonstrated that he stands for all things which I think we share in common in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, from whatever part of the political spectrum we come. If we look at  Sir Zelman  Cowen 's career as a lawyer, an academic, a vice chancellor and a commentator on public affairs, we find running right through that career a respect for democracy and for the principles of liberal democracy which I think is something which all members of parliament share with him. I hope the very fact of his presence will help the Government and the Opposition to ensure that the Government is able to live up to the words in the Governor-General 's Speech. 
The Governor-General stated on behalf of the Government: 
Its trust is to all the people of Australia, and its concern is for all- all sections, all groups and all interests who care and serve this great country of ours. 
I believe  Sir Zelman  Cowen is a man to whom all groups, all sections and all interests can look and can profit by his example. I do not intend to discuss the latter part of  Senator Grimes  speech. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  was in the chamber for that speech and will no doubt, at a later time, take up the points he raised. A little later I shall touch on some of the institutional points which he mentioned in the first part of his speech. 
The main part of the Governor-General's Speech to which I wish to refer is the brief statement on page 9 of the printed document: 
Further development ofthe parliamentary committee system will be promoted . . . 
I think that is a matter of great concern to the chamber. That concern has been evidenced in the contributions made to the debate so far. A number of senators from both sides of the chamber have devoted their attention to the development of the institution of parliament. I believe that that is not a matter of simply enjoying looking in the mirror. I think it is a matter of great public importance that we should look to the improvement of parliament. I suppose all of us are used to being described in terms which indicate low regard. I pick simply as a sample of the sort of public comment about Parliament which is so readily available, an article in the  Weekend Australian  by one, George Negus. It is headlined: 'The Canberra Farce is on Again'. I am sure that sort of headline reminds many honourable senators of oral comments which have been made to them about the sorts of people politicians are and how useless Parliament is. Like many honourable senators who have spoken before me I regard that as a matter of great seriousness. I do not believe we can maintain a sensible and good democratic system if people hold the institutions of democracy in contempt. Some people have more optimistic views about Parliament, and I am happy to say that I am an institutional optimist. In the course of this speech I shall explain why I am an institutional optimist and the direction in which I hope the institution might go. 
I think it is a pity that people like  Senator Grimes  who, I am sure, have the interests of Australia at heart, feel that they have to express a cynicism about the operations of Parliament. It seems to me that if, in this chamber, we find a cynicism about Parliament, it is highly unlikely that we will be able to change the negative attitudes which exist in the media and out in the community. I think it is important that there should be institutional optimists among us. I thank  Senator Rae  for the speech he made a little earlier today in which he put forward some very positive views he has particularly about this chamber. I am pleased to say that the comments made by  Senator Grimes  indicate a concession that the Senate is not always the party house which he labelled it as being. He very properly referred to the committee system which has operated in this chamber over the last 7 or 8 years and which has demonstrated time and time again that party politics is not always practiced in this chamber. 
I briefly remind honourable senators of a couple of examples; one in the life of the previous government and one in the life of the Labor Party Government which demonstrate the positive action which is possible in Parliament to advance the public welfare. We all recall that last year the Government introduced the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill. That Bill was regarded as a matter of some urgency. I think it was my colleague  Senator Wright  who drew attention, during the Committee stages of the debate, to what he saw as some very real difficulties in the legislation. 

 - Senator Baume reminds me that  Senator Wheeldon  also was active during the Committee stages. The Government very sensibly sent that Bill to one of the standing committees of the Senate. As we so often found in the past, on sober consideration of the legislation there was a unanimous recommendation that the Bill should be substantially amended. It is a matter of some puzzlement to me and perhaps to some other honourable senators that that piece of legislation has not re-appeared since the amendments were recommended. I simply cite that example as a demonstration of the sort of action which is possible in this place and which ought to be multiplied one thousand times if we are to create the attitude about Parliament which I am sure we all want. 
I think we should be very optimistic. A far more substantial piece of legislation which was dealt with by the Senate during the life of the Whitlam Government related to a national compensation scheme. It was a large proposal which would have eventually involved an annual expenditure of some $2 billion. Purely through the accident of the Opposition having the numbers in this place the Bill was sent off to one of the Senate standing committees. It received close examination from that committee. The committee sat for about 68 days. Once again we find that the facts which came to the attention of the Committee overrode dogma. We wound up with a unanimous recommendation that the legislation should be withdrawn and reconsidered. I think there were 16 agreed areas requiring major amendments. It is true that as well as the 16 agreed reasons there were a number of individual reports from honourable senators expressing different views about the future of the legislation. Once again we had a situation where a major government program, subjected to what I would regard as proper parliamentary scrutiny, had to be withdrawn because it was shown that at least parts of it were either unworkable or not in the public interest. 
So all this is possible and I would hope that honourable senators from all parties in this place- indeed even the senator who is not from any party- would join together in a common intention to multiply the sort of examples that I have mentioned. 
I think it would be worth the time of the Senate if I were to take it through part of a paper which in January of this year was given at the Institute of Political Science Summer School in Canberra by a professor of political science, Professor Gordon Reid, who was once an officer of the House of Representatives and resigned that position to become an academic, a student of politics.  His  paper is quite lengthy and is doubtless available to all honourable senators. It would repay study, because here is a man who has a very positive attitude towards Parliament and the Senate in particular, but who sees some really serious defects in the system. From an examination of both the defects and positive aspects that he highlights the direction in which we should be moving becomes clear. Professor Reid said: 
The relative decline in the significance of Parliament has been evident for many years. The reasons are complex but they relate mainly to Parliament's lack of supporters (particularly in Canberra) . . . 
May I say parenthetically that I assume he refers to the Public Service:   . . and the lack of people or groups in Australia who will work towards its rehabilitation. The problems of Parliament also arise from its inherent division; not only is it divided by the Federal Constitution into two nominally powerful, and often conflicting Houses: Each constituent House accommodates competing factions- each of which is usually divided between the leaders and led. In addition, it is to the Parliament's disadvantage that its official secretariat is fragmented into even more parts . . . 
That is perhaps a sentence which might be of particular interest to you,  Mr President-   . . than the Parliament itself; and following the Westminster-style of government, both Houses grant important priorities in debate and decision-making to Executive Ministers of State. The outcome has been that the more numerous of the two Houses- the House of Representativeshas become the captive of the Executive Government of the day and is now a sadly repressed and debilitated parliamentary chamber. 
I thought I would get massive agreement on that. He goes on to say of the Senate, however- 
The Senate, due to a variety of circumstances, has developed the ability to check, to question, even obstruct the Government of the day but as a result it has become a widely criticised and frequently maligned and threatened parliamentary body. 
I suggest that it is our job to ensure that it performs its functions; that it does not succumb to any threats that might be offered. The general lead into this paper is a fairly damning indictment of the parliamentary institution and the suggestion that, to a great extent, it is not operating in the way that it should. That is from a man who, as I have said, is basically sympathetic to the parliamentary institution. What is significant is that, later in the paper, having set out the failures of the House of Representatives, he goes on to point out where, in his view, the Senate has succeeded. I would think that most observers of Parliament would agree with most of the points that he makes concerning what is good about the Senate. If there is general agreement on these points, I think it is fairly clear that there is only one way in which we can go, mainly to develop these good points rather than to foster the bad. 
May I say before I lead into Professor Reid's good points that the sort of concern which has been expressed today in this chamber by the calling of quorums, the fact that few of us are prepared to sit and listen to each other's boring speeches, is not one which I find to be of tremendous importance in itself. I think the main reason why nobody comes in here to listen is that most honourable senators know that very little flows from the debates that are held in this chamber; that the useful work we do takes place elsewhere, within the committee structure; that what we say here will change very little; that, in fact, most of us now in the Parliament do not like doing things which are meaningless and therefore would rather spend our time doing those things which are meaningful. 
I say to my colleagues- and I respect their views- that those who believe it to be fundamentally important that more senators should be in attendance in this chamber must face the fact that that will only happen, with today's parliamentarians, if the chamber becomes a place where meaningful things happen, that mere debate is not enough. My conclusion would be that we ought perhaps to spend less time here and more time doing the sort of work that we can generally agree is useful. 
To return to Professor Reid's paper, he quotes as one of the successes of the Senate the fact that since 1932 it has via its Regulations and Ordinances Committee borne Parliament's responsibility for the scrutiny of the expanding volume of delegated legislation. That is a matter upon which there is great unanimity. Here we have a Senate committee which has operated since 1 932 and, according to  Mr Odgers'  analysis, in his book on the Senate, has an impact on at least 7 per cent of the subordinate legislation which is passed by government, or promulgated by government in some way- a significantly higher figure I suspect, than the number of amendments made by either chamber to government legislation. So there is an excellent precedent, something that Professor Reid, and I am sure all observers, would say is a very good thing. 
My immediate comment would be: Does that not point to a change that we could adopt? Why do we not subject all legislation in this Parliament to the sort of scrutiny that is given to delegated legislation? Why should not all legislation be referred to a committee which has the assistance of counsel, which looks at legislation from a purely technical point of view, which sees whether the liberty of the subject is transgressed, whether there are unnecessary averment clauses, whether the onus of proof is being reversed, whether the legislation is retroactive and so on. That sort of technical check of legislation could be conducted by a parliamentary committee and I would venture to say that if such a committee reported that these things were present in particular legislation we in this chamber would be prepared to do something about it. The fact of the matter is that few honourable senators have the time or the competence to subject legislation to that sort of technical scrutiny. According to the estimate of some of my colleagues,  Senator Wright  is the only senator in the chamber who actually reads all the legislation that we pass. So there is a job which is not being done. We have a perfectly sensible precedent to follow. Why do we not examine that as a way of doing one of the jobs which it is the duty of this chamber to do? 
To return to Professor Reid's paper, his second point concerning the success of the Senate is expressed in this way: 
Since 1970-71 the Senate has been bearing most of the burden of providing a parliamentary oversight of Executive departments via it seven standing committees. 
The work of all those committees is well known to honourable senators, and I shall not labour the point. I simply repeat that we have so many examples of Parliament behaving in a nonpartisan way with respect to even major pieces of legislation that we all ought to be urging an extension of that sort of consideration of legislation. It would be a simple step. The precedent is there. Why do we not get on and do it? Thirdly, Professor Reid says: 
Only the Senate is attempting to subject the annual estimates of expenditure to scrutiny in parliamentary committees each year. 
Again, we are all familiar with the work of the Estimates committees. It seems to me that the question which we now have to address is: Where do we go from here? We have devised a system which examines the Estimates, however imperfectly. We actually get public servants in this chamber telling us what is going on. If we review the speeches that have followed the reports by Estimates committees during last year or so we find actual examples of waste on disputed expenditure being raised by honourable senators. The question that presents itself to me is: What are we going to do about it? What is the use of creating this instrument unless it is put to further use? My point to honourable senators, and to you  Mr President,  would be that, again, logic points to a definite further development of Senate activity in that area. Professor Reid went on to say: 
Only the Senate has referred proposed laws (bills) to small committees for detailed scrutiny and report- with some outstanding results. 
This is a point I have covered. We should all agree that this is positive work which the public could respect. He went on: 
Only the Senate is attempting to subject the annual reports of commissions, boards and instrumentalities to a systematic committee scrutiny. 
Only today a further step in that process has been taken, with a notice of motion given on behalf of  Senator Rae.  The Senate is moving into an area which has been left untouched for decades. We have been setting up bodies which carry out very important functions in the public arena and not subjecting them to proper parliamentary scrutiny and control. We are developing the means to do so. Obviously, we have to push on in that direction. Professor Reid made a point that the  Clerk  will like. He said: 
Only the Senate has produced a record of its voluminous precedents (J. R. Odgers,  Australian Senate Practice) 
I think that is worth mentioning. I believe it strengthens us as an institution to have our own document which sets out our history and to which we can all easily refer when we wish to examine what has happened in this chamber in the past. These things are all positive but to me their common advantage is that they are sensible because they are actions which have an effect and sometimes results. It is so different to speech making because however glorious that speech making may be and however important it may be in explaining the Government or Opposition position much of it is fruitless. 
I have brought into the chamber one of my own better speeches. I thought I might even reread it as I liked it so much. I made that speech in the Senate on 2 November 1977. It was about a matter on which I had made requests to the Government. It affected the displacement of Aborigines from stations in the drought stricken pastoral areas of Western Australia. I was told that there were all sons of problems in the implementation of a relief program. I spoke to the public servants involved and to the Minister concerned. I considered all the objections and difficulties they raised. Because I thought it an appropriate thing to do I put down in this chamber what I saw as the way around the difficulties. I said to the Government that I was putting the suggestion forward in the hope that something could be done soon. I do not know whether anything has been done. I have had no response, not a word. That may well be a far too common experience. 
What are we actually trying to achieve when we make a speech in this chamber? We are saying to the Government that we believe something should be done about a particular matter.  Senator Withers  is not even taking notes at the moment. My point is that if we want people to take an interest in these debates they must have a result. I say to the Ministers of this Government, and I am sure the same comment would apply to the Ministers of the previous Government- I even saw the odd nodd on the Labor benchesthat we ought to get a response from the Government when a point of view or request for action is put in this chamber. Otherwise all we are doing is sending 100 copies of the speech to interest groups and supporters to show what a good job we are doing. That means nothing. 

 - Senator Baume reminds me that no response is a response. I referred to only one example but I suggest that it could be multiplied many times. I do not believe that is good enough. It is an area in which the Government needs to sharpen itself up. I notice  Senator Withers  still has not taken notes but he may well take out the bat to me after the debate. 
I believe that in a peculiar way this institution is able to meet the problems of present democracy. Some of the problems are that  members of  the community want inconsistent things. Different groups in the community are unwilling to face up to the fact that what they want must be reconciled with the wants of others. There is also a demand in the community for the right to participate in government. It seems to me that in many ways the exercise of the Senate committee inquiring into the national compensation scheme met those demands. The Government produced a scheme. It said: 'What we want to do is compensate the sick and the injured'. That is a lovely objective for government. It is a nice thing on which we can all stand around and congratulate each other. The Government quite properly said: 'Here is the way we believe it can be done'. When the proposal was subjected to public examination we found extraordinary facts. The most extraordinary was that the trade union movement, the legal profession and insurance companies were all in bed together. They put basically the same view about the national compensation scheme. It disturbed their interests but they also had substantial concerns about the implementation of the scheme. 
That underlined the fact that this was not a simple partisan issue. It was not the bad Leftists against the good Rightists or the conservatives against Labor. All of those labels become utterly meaningless. Different groups in the community were able to show us that there were problems in what was being done. An insignificant group in public terms, the Physiotherapists Association of South Australia, came to a meeting. In public evidence it pointed out the implications of a particular clause which would have involved the Commonwealth picking up every hospital, medical and paramedical expense in Australia. We were lucky to have some public servants helping us on that inquiry, but they had not noticed that point. That huge area had not even been costed or taken into account. It was not picked up by any of the clever senators who examined the matter. It was not picked up even by any of our clever staff. It was picked up by a small group of people who for practical reasons said: 'To whom will we actually be sending our bills?' We said: When you read this clause properly you and everybody else will be sending your bills to the Government'. 
That evidence opened up a new vista of what the Bill involved. The trade unions, the lawyers and the insurance companies all had their say. All that one can attribute to the committee which looked into the matter is that it discovered all the problems. But everyone with a serious interest in workers' compensation and its imminent collapse would have been assisted in their examination of solutions to the problem by the work of that committee. Any interest group, whether it is the trade unions, lawyers or insurance companies would have to concede that its point of view must be meshed with equally serious points of view that must be taken into account by the Parliament. 
The Government has nothing to lose and everything to gain by that sort of exercise, that sort of public participation and sensible nonpartisan examination of issues backed up by all means by a government definition of the objective but with a little humility on the part of government about the means of attaining it. I do not refer to  Senator Withers. His  humility is beautiful to watch. I refer to the humility of the public servants who provide the solutions for government to adopt. I think the solutions to Australia's problems will not be solved by Canberra bureaucrats, many of whom are not closely in touch with the needs and aspirations of the Australian community. This Parliament can perform the function of allowing the people of Australia to have some input in relation to and influence on the proceedings of this massive and expensive bureaucracy. 
I have tended to ramble and roam. I hope my point has come through. It is that this institution has useful forms. There are sufficient examples of its working successfully for us to want to capitalise on them. In any event, if we want our system of government to survive it must be open to influence from people. We, the representatives of the people, ought to be able to structure the system so that we respond to the people and to their needs. All this can happen. I believe it will happen not because government overtly and suddenly makes a decision radically to change its approach to parliament. It will happen only if we, as parliamentarians, change our working patterns. That is in our hands. Politicians who whinge about a lack of power and influence make me ill. The reason is that they have all the legal power in the world but they have not chosen to use it. We learnt in 1975 that this Parliament has the ultimate power to make or break governments. We know we have, with our voting ability, the power to control government. We have chosen not to use that power in most areas. If we change the way we operate, not by way of confrontation but co-operatively, we will increase our influence, the ability of government to respond to the people and we will have a much healthier functioning democracy and less of the sort of headlines which top George Negus's column. That concludes my remarks to the Senate. 
I regret that  Senator Grimes  regards it as something of a sermon. Having just been given the considerable privilege of not one-and-a-half or two-and-a-half years as the electorate or a combination of circumstances gave me before but six-and-a-half years in this place, a prospect which on some mornings horrifies me and on others delights me, I simply say that I am sure all other senators who have been given a six-and-a-half year term do not want to be here wasting their time. I hope that all of us can occasionally drop the partisan clash, which we enjoy but which turns the public off and makes them think we are a bunch of hotheads, get on with the job and have a very fruitful and productive six-and-a-half years. It is with that hope that I will help deliver the AddressinReply. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. Has the Government considered and made decisions on the recommendations in the Horton report on the funding of public libraries? Does the Government propose to consult the States about the recommendations of the Committee in light of the fact that libraries are largely the responsibility of State and local government? 
I support the remarks made by  Senator Gietzelt.  There is a great deal of value in what he had to say on two subjects- firstly, the accommodation situation in this building, which no doubt we will continue to occupy for a long time, and, secondly, the provision of support for the Opposition. I have spent half my parliamentary life in opposition. It has been a rather short life. I agree with  Senator Gietzelt  that the need for physical support is very great and that the provision of support in the past has not been adequate. The Government should do everything it can to ensure that the present Opposition is comfortable in the role it has apparently worked towards over the last couple of years. With respect to accommodation, I am aware of course that you,  Mr President,  and the  Speaker  have been giving this matter some earnest attention. In fact, I understand that this is the first Parliament in which all senators and members have had a room each. That is something for which we all are grateful. Honourable senators had been better treated in this regard; your predecessors had been able to ensure that there was a room for each senator. Our colleagues in the House of Representatives had been less well served. You and the  Speaker  are to be congratulated for giving each member of this Parliament the minimum requirement of a private office in which he or she can do private work. 
My reason for wishing to speak on this matter is that I would like to put on record the view that this is but a very worthwhile first step. In my view, the demands, not only on Opposition members but also on Government supporters, are such that more support is necessary if we are to do the job that is expected of us by our electorates. The tantalising thing for all honourable senators at the moment is that the Remuneration Tribunal has indicated that it would be prepared to recommend an additional staff member for each of us if we had the space for them. We are in the awkward situation that those who rule on our industrial conditions have agreed that we could usefully employ another staff member each but we simply cannot make use of that decision unless more accommodation is made available. 
I would like to see the problem tackled on a quite different basis from that on which it has been tackled in the past. I think the proper basis is to decide that Parliament House is to have a certain amount of space for members and senatorsI think the minimum should be two small offices- and, having allocated that amount of space to members and senators, proceed to use the remaining space as best possible to provide for the support staff required. In other words, I see a rather strong approach being required, under which the provision of adequate space for members and senators is made the first priority and there is enough room for them to have a support staff member in Canberra. I express the personal view that, notwithstanding the many difficulties that might flow from that, it would be possible to provide most of the services that members and senators require, apart from their personal staff, from outside this building. I simply commend publicly, as I have commended privately to you,  Mr President,  this matter receiving your continuing attention. I understand that the availability of space in nearby buildings is such that now is the time for some further action. I am sure that you,  Mr President,  and the  Speaker  would be regarded as Presiding Officers of historic importance if you were able to further advance the conditions of members and senators in this way. 
As a member of the Standing Orders Committee I generally support the recommendation of the Committee, as moved by  Senator Withers.  Perhaps I should start by thanking  Senator Rae  for his support in anticipation of the amendment I will propose. It is an unusual pleasure to be supported in advance. I will meet his expectations shortly. I was pleased that  Senator Douglas  McClelland raised the question of the smaller parties, because I think that is an issue most honourable senators would wish to consider when looking at this proposal for change. However, I cannot agree with him that the smaller parties are in a more disadvantaged position if the experiment is tried. 
The period of 90 minutes notice which is required for a matter of public importance to be submitted to the  President  is, of course, the same period as is required under the present Standing Order. Bearing in mind the present sitting times, it means that on a Wednesday at some time before a quarter to one it would be necessary to deliver to the  President  a piece of paper with five signatures on it. I find it hard to believe that there would be any great mechanical difficulties in doing that if either the Opposition or the Government wished to support a matter of public importance which was raised by an Independent senator. The fact of the matter is that there would have to be discussion between the Independent senator who wished to put forward the matter of public importance and his supporters in the same way as there would have to be discussion if he wished to put forward an urgency motion with any prospect of success. It would be simply a matter of the timing of the discussion in relation to the time of a Caucus meeting or a Government party meeting that would determine whether the proposal would be able to get the required number of signatures. 
I respond to  Senator Douglas  McClelland simply by saying that he has overestimated the mechanical difficulties involved. I have never attended a Caucus meeting- it is a matter of considerable regret to me that I have not had that experience- but I assume that Caucus meetings, like our party meetings, are not closed, in the sense that members can move in and out of the meeting. At almost every party meeting I attended last year I was disturbed and given a piece of paper stating that the Opposition had moved yet another urgency motion. I then spent the next ten minutes or quarter of an hour sorting the matter out in the party room- seeing who would respond to it and making sure that the Government was prepared when the motion came on. In other words, our party meetings currently are interrupted by the procedure of responding to urgency motions. I do not find it particularly difficult to imagine them being staged in a way which would enable a request by an Independent senator for support of a matter of public importance to be considered and the mechanics dealt with. 
Of course, the same problem applies now. I do not see members of the Opposition leaping to their feet in support of  Senator Harradine  unless there had been Caucus consideration and the Labor Party had decided it was in its political interest to support  Senator Harradine.  I apply the same criteria to my party. Therefore, we have that mechanical difficulty under the present system.  Senator Harradine  would not know whether he would get support in this chamber until the party had made a decision. It is highly unlikely that four honourable senators from any side of the chamber would leap to their feet and make a decision to support  Senator Harradine,  or any other Independent senator, without the matter having received party consideration. 
Two other matters which have been raised need consideration. The first relates to  Senator Baume  's suggestion that it would be better to have a temporal test rather than a test of the President's judgment. I adopt the arguments already put forward that the  President  ought to make the judgment. After all, his decision is always subject to disagreement in this chamber. I understand that that procedure is time-tested in the other place. I understand that it usually works to the benefit of the Opposition. I do not think it unreasonable that that should be so. I do not believe that there is any great problem. I find it a little ludicrous that time should be the test. I remind honourable senators opposite of the occasion on which, using the rule about time, I managed to raise a matter of public importance with respect to Western Australia, before the Opposition did. That was timed to meet the needs of the Western Australian election. I was following the precedent which the Opposition had set with respect to the South Australian and Tasmanian elections. I did find it faintly ludicrous that just by getting in first I received automatic priority. I should rather see a matter of judgment which, after all, is ultimately subject to the test of this chamber's agreement or disagreement. 
The matter on which 1 disagree with the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee relates to the maintenance of a time limit of three hours for the discussion of matters of public importance. I hope that this chamber will consider, during an experimental period, reducing to two hours the time allotted for the discussion of a matter of public importance. My reason for wishing that is quite straight forward. I have yet to hear an urgency debate which was really worth listening to after two hours. We had quite a long period when these debates did go for three hours because no honourable senator had the power to move the gag. Consequently, when we were in Opposition and there was a blocking majority- I think we were even Stevens- all the discussions of matters of public importance went for three hours, and the particular skill which honourable senators brought to bear was to try to have a member of their party as the last  speaker.  That involved very intricate arithmetic on the part of both Whips. Quite frankly, I always found it faintly ludicrous to have this terrible toing and froing, and honourable senators would terribly cleverly sit down eight minutes early and throw out all one's timing. In other words, I thought that all that was fairly farcical. 
Since we have had the ability to move the gag in this place- I regret that on occasions we have used the gag- all these debates have gone for only two hours. I ask all honourable senators to sit back and think about whether they believe any one of those debates was diminished by the fact that it went for two hours rather than three. I know that a number of honourable senators opposite were very angry at not being allowed the chance to speak. I ask them to forget the particular speech they had burning in their bellies and to think of the awful speeches they had been listening to before the gag was applied. I think that two hours has been shown in this place to be quite an adequate time for the discussion of a matter of public importance. Although the Opposition was not fussed about the imposition of the gag- I think that must always be the case- I think that on most occasions there was a real sense of relief, even on the Opposition benches, that the debate had been brought to an end after two hours. 
This matter has been considered in this chamber on a number of occasions. The Standing Orders Committee has considered the question of time on a number of occasions. In August 1971 it recommended that within the procedures governing the debate of a matter of public importance the time allowed for debate should be reduced to two hours and that at the same time there should be a reduction in speaking times from 30 minutes to 20 minutes for the first two speakers and from 15 minutes to 10 minutes for the remaining speakers. That matter was discussed in this chamber. I understand that a majority of honourable senators clearly approved of the recommendation that the time for debate should be reduced to two hours. However, there were fewer in agreement on the reduction of speaking times. 
In 1972 this chamber actually agreed to a motion which was moved by the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, to the effect that we agreed in principle that Standing Order 64 relating to these matters should provide that the whole discussion on the subject should not exceed two hours. I propose to move an amendment that the time be reduced to two hours. In doing so, I stress that this should be purely an experiment. I stress that we should be seeking procedures in this chamber whereby the use of the gag and the guillotine is unnecessary. Obviously, one cannot completely do away with the gag and the guillotine. Honourable senators opposite will remember history. On occasions they in Opposition teamed with the Democratic Labor Party to support a guillotine. 
All right, on one occasion. I do not believe it is humanly possible to do away entirely with the gag and the guillotine. I do suggest that we ought to aim for procedures which in general will permit us as a Senate to operate sensibly without a majority, whoever might have the majority, having to impose its will on the minority. I think that the experience of the past year particularly demonstrates that we could run a system which permits the discussion of matters of public importance to go for two hours without disruption of other business of the Senate, which would be a quite adequate time in which to air the particular issues which honourable senators might wish to raise. I ask honourable senators to give very serious consideration to an amendment in the terms I have indicated, on the basis that it would enable us to assess whether that would provide a procedure which would enable the Senate on a consensual basis to deal with the issues which are believed by honourable senators to be important and to warrant public debate. Therefore I move: 
That the proposed sessional order be amended by omitting the word 'three' from line 9 of paragraph 5, and replacing it with the word 'two'. 
I seek the support of honourable senators for that amendment. 
I also rise to support the second reading of this Bill. A good deal has been said already to indicate the broad support that the Government is receiving on this measure. I commend  Senator Wheeldon  for his comments, with which I am in almost total agreement. It is unfortunate that, I suppose, there is only one nose we can keep clean, as far as taking action in this legislature is concerned. I would agree with  Senator Wheeldon  that the problem of another country's behaviour is something to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  might very well address himself. 
I wish to participate in the debate simply to commend the Government and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  upon the way in which this Bill has been handled. It is unfortunate that, in the seven or eight years during which there have been Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees of the Senate, only a handful of Bills have been referred to them. The outcome of the reference in this case is very good evidence that this is a practice which ought to be pursued by the Senate, and used far more widely. It is an unusual reference, because it has occurred in regard to a partisan measure, not a non-party matter such as the Family Law Bill. It is a measure which has been dealt with by the Senate with the Government having a clear majority. I hope therefore that it is an indication of a Government attitude which will be evident over the next couple of years, namely, a preparedness to refer legislation to committees when serious matters are raised in this chamber and then to give careful consideration to matters which are brought forward by the committee. 
In this whole area what is required is not so much a change of attitude as a change of technique on the part of the Government. The lengthy debate which took place in the Senate on 31 March 1977, to which previous speakers have referred, is a good demonstration of the difficulty of dealing with quite complicated arguments. I am sure that  Senator Wright,  who along with other honourable senators was trying to put forward some matters, must have found the debate on 31 March 1977 extremely frustrating. I suspect that the Attorney also would have found it extremely frustrating. Those of us who subsequently took part in the committee deliberations on the Bill are all aware that it is relatively easy in the atmosphere around the table to deal with the technical questions which arise and to make sensible recommendations. This Bill, in the way it has been handled, has significance for the Senate which ought to be noted and perhaps a significance for the whole Parliament which ought to be noted. I thank the Attorney for his consideration and the Government for its consideration of the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I trust that this is but the first of many such exercises. 
I think most people in the Senate support the sentiments with which  Senator Button  closed his speech. Certainly, many honourable senators on this side of the chamber agree that in the Senate the Aboriginal people ought to be able to look for support and a lead in taking the Australian community along the line  Senator Button  has just indicated. I shall deal with a couple of points in  Senator Button's  speech which I think may have given some slightly false emphasis to the material he put before the chamber. It is perhaps notable that this is the first matter of public importance which has been dealt with in the Senate. I express personal regret that it is so appro priate that we should be discussing Aboriginal affairs in north Queensland. 
The matter from the House of Representatives yesterday which was quoted by  Senator Button  suggested some subordination of Aboriginal interests to mineral interests. I do not believe that the sort of suggestion which I think was inclusive in the question which was asked in the House of Representatives can stand proper scrutiny. I suggest the best evidence of that is the paper which was recently circulated by the Australian Mining Industry Council. It is another example of what I would regard as less than brilliant public relations. In it the Australian Mining Industry Council set out why it is absolutely essential that the Aboriginal land rights legislation should be amended. A careful study of that, and the obvious unhappiness of the spokesman of the Mining Industry Council with the actions of the Government, should make honourable senators opposite feel a little less suspicious of the attitude of the Government to Aboriginals. 
The other matter which  Senator Button  mentioned related to the report in the  Age  of today's date about what  Mr Viner  had to say. I think it is fairly clear from what  Mr Viner  has said in other parts of the media and in Parliament that the  Age  has really captured only a part of what  Mr Viner  was saying. It is certainly true, as the  Age  states, that at the moment the Federal Government does not have a law which would prevent a takeover of these reserves by the Government of Queensland from the Uniting Church which is at present administering those reserves. But what has already been made clear in a number of places and by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this chamber today is that the Commonwealth Government holds itself ready to legislate if legislation is necessary. I was delighted to hear that assurance from both the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in the other place and the Minister for Social Security in this chamber. So what is being reported in the  Age  is simply a statement about the present position. The matter is under review. Consultations are taking place. The Aboriginal people concerned are being asked for their views. The Government has made it clear that it holds its legislative power in reserve pending the outcome of those discussions and pending, I hope, some sensible behaviour on the part of the Queensland Government. 
There is no doubt, as Opposition senators have said, that there is a Commonwealth reponsibility in this area.  Senator Button  referred to the Yes case which supported the 1967 referendum. It is, I think, a comfort to those of us who believe there is a Federal responsibility to examine the figures and the attitudes which were expressed by voters in Australia in that referendum. It is perhaps most encouraging to look at the voting figures for Queensland. Over 900,000 Queenslanders were eligible to vote in the referendum. Of the 848,000 people who voted, 748,000 voted for the proposition. Against that, only 90,000 voted against the proposition. So the ratio of Yes to No votes in Queensland was eight to one which is a pretty good indication that there is massive support in that State for the proposition that the Commonwealth has a constitutional responsibility. To some extent, I do not believe we are up against the situation of which  Senator Button  made mention that applied in 1901. 1 think we can assume that the 1967 referendum gave the clearest possible indication that the people of Queensland accept a Commonwealth obligation in this area. It is an obligation that I, and I know other Government supporters, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  are prepared to accept. 
The overall majority is also worth noting. In the whole of the Commonwealth, some 5.8 million ballot papers were issued. Over 5.1 million people voted Yes for the proposition. I stress that point because it has been indicated to me in I think a friendly manner that I am one of those senators who comes into this place and supports the concept of State rights, State obligations, or call them what we will. I believe that we in Australia govern in a most complex federation. I support in general the maintenance of State responsibilities in important areas where States at present have responsibilities. Because I support this concept, I have to accept the fact that very often one cannot solve problems in the very direct way that one would like. I make that concession because I do not like the idea of centralised power. I do not find that Commonwealth public servants stationed in Canberra necessarily know what is best for the outlying parts of Australia. 
Having said that, I accept that in this area the major Commonwealth responsibility for Aboriginal welfare and the maintenance of the main thrust of that policy, which is to have a system whereby Aborigines are given more and more chance to manage their own affairs, is something that we must pay heed to and be prepared to act to protect if necessary. 
In common with a number of other members of this Parliament, I engaged last year in one of the exercises we have performed pursuant to our constitutional power. We had a look at the subordinate legislation for the land rights legislation. Many of us had the opportunity to visit centres in the Northern Territory where the Government policy is directly put into effect. I was able to visit Bathurst Island, Elcho Island, Gove and Groote Eylandt. At each of those centres, I was impressed by the spirit of selfreliance which was quite evident by the fact that the Aboriginal people were prepared to tell us what they thought, even on occasions when they knew the news was not particularly welcome to us. Some actually told us they were rather sick of giving their views and they preferred we went away and read what they had to say on bits of paper which by now must have been lodged in Canberra. I had some sympathy for that view. I mention this point merely to indicate my limited experience of what the Commonwealth is doing in the Northern Territory in terms of fostering self-management which appears to me to be a most desirable approach to what has been Australia's most difficult policy area in the history of our country. 
The gross lack of success we have had in giving the Aboriginal people of this country a sensible place in society, a place where they can maintain both the standards they desire and their self-respect, is something of which I think many of us are deeply ashamed. The fact that the Government is now pursuing a course which throws additional responsibility on to the Aborigines themselves to determine which way they want to go is something of which I believe we should all be in favour and all anxious to support, at least until it has had an adequate period of trial. 
There are occasions when, in my experience, self-management has looked a fairly luxurious business, such as when we see an attempt to provide a development by a community falling apart at the seams through a lack of adequate management. Consequently, this is a waste of taxpayers money. But I accept that is an inevitable part of the system. I believe that the new approach that has been adopted so firmly by the present Government and the present Minister is one which will take a good number of years to work through. I do not believe we should be prepared to see it interfered with by any agency at this stage. 
The Government has made it clear- and I am sure that all honourable senators will agree with this objective- that the wishes of the people are to be regarded as paramount. There is also a warning note in some of the material I have seen that it will be important to know how the wishes of the people are to be determined because it is always possible, of course, that there will be a distortion of the view of the people in the evidence gathering process. We know that the Queensland Minister responsible for this matter and others have already gone to these communities to try to ascertain their views. It may be, of course, that we will be left in the very awkward position where it is very difficult for us to know precisely what are the views of particular communities. There is also the possibility of manipulation by whatever side is involved. I suspect that the judgments we can make so easily in advance about following the wishes of the people may prove to be a little more complex in reality. If that happens- and I hope it does not- we will need to have the courage of our convictions and simply push on in support of the policy which we have put before the people of Australia and which we believe to be right. 
I wish to touch on a further point which is not so likely to gain agreement around the chamber. One of the aspects which I think it is easy to overlook is the very real difficulties which are involved in the exercise which the Government is conducting. Those difficulties were most evident in the inquiry we conducted in the Northern Territory. I think that  Senator Bonner,  the  chairman  of that Committee who will be speaking in this debate shortly, will agree that one of the things we learned was that there is a real conflict of interest in many of these situations. It is very easy to decide in the abstract that Aborigines are to have certain rights. When those rights run into what are regarded as the rights of other people the equation becomes much more difficult. A very good example of that was the strong views which were expressed about Aboriginals having control over off-shore waters. Very strong views were expressed by visitors and by Aboriginals about that area in particular. I believe that in that sort of conflict it is necessary for both black and white to compromise in the same way as other groups in the community have to compromise. 
In conclusion, I simply say that I commend the Government for the fact that it has in a restrained way met action by the Queensland Government which was not communicated to it in advance. It has proceeded to try in a measured way to find out what the people concerned want. It has quietly re-enunciated its policy of selfdevelopment. I believe the Government is proceeding in a very proper manner to defend the vital interests of these Aboriginal communities. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Was the deadline for application for tertiary education assistance allowances 3 1 March last? If so, what will be the position of students whose applications were delayed by the recent mail strike? 

 - Mr President, I rise to support the motion that the Senate take note of the paper which you put down in the Senate on 2 March. I oppose the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Button.  Later in my speech, for reasons I will indicate, I shall move an amendment to that amendment which I think will be more acceptable to honourable senators on this side of the chamber. I hope that it will leave the Opposition's amendment in a form that will be acceptable to honourable senators opposite. 
I am interested to follow  Senator Colston  in this debate because he raised in his speech a number of matters which I would have thought were of interest to honourable senators generally. I disagree with the comment he made a few minutes ago that the debate is necessarily farcical because some security measures have already been instituted. I express the hope,  Mr President,  that you and those who advise you on these matters will in fact gain some benefit from the contribution in this debate of honourable senators who have made specific suggestions which may improve the arrangements which you have already instituted and which I support. 
I share with all members of this Senate regret that we have reached a point where it has been thought necessary by most people that we should have additional security measures. I think that one of the satisfying things about Australian politics has been the fact that we have been able to carry out our work with a minimum of fuss and that there has been a high degree of public access to the people who represent the public. For example, I believe that most senators in this chamber still have their telephone numbers listed in the telephone book. This is a small indication of the good relations that exist between the general community and the elected representatives who sit in parliament. After all, there is no way in which one is more directly accessible to a very large number of people than over the telephone. The fact is that anyone can find in the telephone book the telephone numbers of most senators and members of the House of Representatives and ring them. I think that is a small fact that underlines the generally satisfactory situation that has existed in this country. 
At the same time one simply has to acknowledge that there are some elements in the community who are capable of doing things which go outside the normal democratic process and which put people at risk, whether they are members of parliament or others. I well remember speeches that were made by honourable senators opposite when they were in government in which they complained about extremist elements in the community who were making life difficult for the Yugoslav Embassy and other people. Those honourable senators were quite properly concerned about small elements in the community who were prepared to indulge in violence and to endanger not only those whom they were seeking to attack but also the general public. 
Having disagreed mildly with  Senator Colston,  can I also say that I agree with a number of points that he raised.  Senator Colston,  in common with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Martin  who spoke during the debate on this subject on 16 March, referred to the need to ensure the safety of staff in this building. I think that they expressed a widely shared view in the chamber, namely, that security is not merely a matter of ensuring the physical well being of senators or members of the House of Representatives; it is also a matter of ensuring that those who have the not always pleasant job of working for us do not have the additional disadvantage of having their lives placed at risk. I think for that reason one has to be prepared to put aside one's own feelings of doubt about personal security. I believe that honourable senators such as  Senator Cavanagh  who tended to oppose the whole idea of security are, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack observed, tending to look at their own situation and not regarding the situation of other people in this building. I think we have little choice in this matter but simply to follow sensible procedures which ensure that people are looked after. 
I commend you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker,  for the fact that your statement makes it perfectly clear that the members of the public will continue to have open admission to the areas in this building which have traditionally been open to the public. They will still be admitted to Kings Hall and to the area under Kings Hall. They will still be admitted to these chambers, as, of course, it is essential they must be admitted. I think it is important to underline the fact that the traditional freedom of the public to have access to the building in that sense has been preserved. 
After all, one does not have to go into a parliament house to find restrictions on movement in what may be termed non-public areas. When I went to an office building in Melbourne last week I was required to declare myself at the desk in the foyer. I was required to take a pass before I was allowed to go into the private areas of that building. I did not object to that requirement. It is the perfect right of the tenants of that building to issue such directions. 
It was simply an office building. This example underlines the fact that attitudes to these things are changing; that they have to change. Like a number of other honourable senators who have spoken in this debate I have had personal experiences which have left me dissatisfied with previous arrangements for security in this building. One particular case which I took up with you,  Mr President,  concerned an incident that occurred at about the time of the Queen's visit. On that occasion I went to what was then my office- the Government Whip's Office- on a Sunday morning. I walked into that room and found someone who I certainly did not know sitting at my secretary's desk. I naturally sought an explanation and I was told that the female concerned was assisting in the servicing of the bleeper or paging system that has been installed in Parliament House. I made the comment, I think politely, that I thought she should tell her employers that if someone was to be in my office I should be advised. She left and someone else entered without knocking or seeking permission to enter. When I spoke to that person on several occasions I was ignored. I eventually asked him to leave and I was promptly abused for my trouble. I took up the matter with the housekeeper who was the nearest available person. He explained the very real problems that he faced under the existing rules. He asked: 'What am I to do in situations where a lot of people come into this building?' I am paraphrasing his remarks but I think I am giving a fair summary of what he said. He went on to say: If I interfere people tend to complain, including members, that I have to live and let live. They say that the working of parliament requires easy entry and access. But if I do nothing you complain'. He added: 'What I would like to see is a set of rules so that we know where we stand '. I think that is a very reasonable stance for a member of the staff of this place to adopt. 
At about the same time- I think it was the same weekend; if not, one or two days before or after that weekend- some very busy activity took place in a Minister's offices. It involved people laying wires in the ceiling. I suppose I was a bit security conscious after my experience on the Sunday and I asked the members of the Minister's staff what were the people doing. They told me they did not know. They had already commenced inquiries, and it took them some time to ascertain who these people were, what they were doing and who had authorised what they were doing. It seems to me that it is a rather unsatisfactory state of affairs that one has to be put on that sort of an inquiry. After all, if people are running wires around one cannot automatically assume that the action is innocent. They may not be planting a bomb, but, who knows, they may be planting a listening device. In the light of the conversations that I have had with the Minister concerned I can only say that anyone with a listening device could have some very entertaining evenings. 
The other aspect to which I want to refer is concerned with the very relaxed way in which we behave in this building. I came back for this session with shoes polished, hair brushed and ready for action only to find all of my furniture and files out in the corridor. That was the end point at which my office was being partitioned- a job which I would say took slightly more labour than the erection of one of the pyramids. But that was the final point at which my office was being put into a fit condition for a decent Whip to occupy, and now, of course, a decent Whip does occupy it. 
-That is right. In any event, the point I am making is that my papers were sitting in the corridor. I cannot find anything in my papers so I doubt whether anyone snooping would have much luck either. However, the fact that it is quite satisfactory for my files and papers to be piled out in the corridor underlines the point that we ought to have some control over who is walking up and down the corridors. Control over the corridor outside my former office is fairly limited because it is at the foot of the stairs to the Press Gallery. Fortunately the people in the Press Gallery are so marvellous that I am sure they would not look or pry and I see that the sole representative of Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd in the Press Gallery nods his head in confirmation. But the fact is that we leave our offices open and we leave papers on our tables. We know of at least one occasion on which someone was found, I believe, in the office of the then leader of honourable senators opposite. 
-Mr Whitlam 's office. These things can happen. They have happened, and I for one believe that in this area where our offices lie it is highly desirable, quite apart from safety, that there should be what is generally termed security. There ought to be sufficient privacy for us to continue to live in a reasonably relaxed manner and to treat our offices as our own place where we do not have to lock everything up and behave in a stupid manner. I commend you and  Mr Speaker  for taking these decisions. I commend you for preserving public access to the Parliament, and I know that it would always be insisted by members just as it would be by the Presiding Officers that public access to this chamber, King's Hall and the other chamber should be preserved. 
What we have to do is see what sensible arrangements can be made. I express one reservation which I have about the ability of you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  to carry out the serious obligations which you have and from which you cannot escape; that is that any measure which you adopt, such as keeping watch on doors and the issuing of passes, will not of itself be a guarantee of effectiveness. We had an example of this given in the debate by  Senator Colston  who told us of somebody, a servant of a parliament, if I understood his account, who stabbed  Mr Verwoerd.  Obviously that sort of thing, as  Senator George's  amusing quip made plain, is not prevented by the fact that people are wearing badges. I ask you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  to bear in mind that security has wider implications than simply what happens in this place. I suppose that only 0.00 1 per cent of the population of Australia would wish to do anything violent in this chamber. That tiny percentage of people will be far less restricted by the sort of measures which you have imposed than will the thousands of innocent people who seek to use this building. 
The point I leave for your consideration is that it seems to me that the person you have appointed to be in charge of security ought to be conscious of the fact that he is but one tiny unit in the whole of Australia and that this issue of security here is part of a much wider problem. I do not know where you go from there but it appears that merely to concentrate on machinery measures, as effective and necessary as they might be, may mean that we miss the really serious case which is likely to come up, we hope, only once in a while. I do not support the amendment moved by  Senator Button,  not because I disagree with the reference of this matter to the Committee of Privileges but because I think there is a suggestion in the amendment that the measures which you have taken are not agreed to at this stage. I do not think honourable senators generally, and certainly honourable senators on this side of the chamber, would wish to support an amendment which in any way casts doubt on what you and  Mr Speaker  have done to date. However, many honourable senators will agree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Button  when he led for the Opposition when he said that as he understood the traditions of Parliament, the rights and privileges of members of Parliament are peculiarly matters for the Parliament to consider and there should not be an infringement of those rights and privileges- whatever that infringement might be- without proper consultation and discussion with the members of Parliament'. That idea was put forward by  Senator Colston  in the chamber a little while ago and would have broad appeal. 
What we are seeking to do when looking at our privileges as members of Parliament is simply to ensure that we retain the freedom to carry out our duties as elected representatives. That is the traditional approach to privilege. We are not to be prevented from getting to Canberra, from getting into this place or from exercising our rights within this place as members of Parliament. That is the heart of the privilege to which  Senator Button  was referring. I agree that when we impose a system of controls we are of necessity raising the possibility of some restriction of that freedom of which members of Parliament are very jealous. So I think there is a case for the whole matter to be looked at by the Committee of Privileges. I do not believe that would in any way subvert what you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  are trying to do. It would simply ensure that all members of Parliament were satisfied that the Parliament, as well as its Presiding Officers, was able to ensure that none of our traditional rights and privileges was in any way being infringed. I do not pretend that the Committee of Privileges will have an easy job.  Senator Colston's  suggestion that we, as well as everyone else, should wear passes is one which he will have great difficulty selling to his colleagues on that side of the chamber. I share with him the view that I do not care whether I wear a pass, but I have a poor record for leaving behind my comb and other things such as credit cards which I wish to carry about in my wallet. I admit that it would probably cause me some personal inconvenience when I had to go back perhaps to Perth or alternatively only to Campbell to pick up the badge which I left behind. With that qualification I suggest that there may be additional measures of the sort which  Senator Colston  has raised which are reasonable. For the reasons I have outlined I move as an amendment to the amendment moved by  Senator Button: 
After 'matter of, insert 'the appropriate means of ensuring'. 
That means that if the two amendments were accepted the motion as amended would read: 
That the Senate take note of the statement, and that the matter of the appropriate means of ensuring the security of Parliament House be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
The difference between what I am proposing and what  Senator Button  is proposing is that the further amendment makes it clear that the Senate is not querying the need for appropriate means of security or what has been done already but is giving the Committee of Privileges a chance to look at the matter generally and to report back to the Senate. That is a sensible procedure which may well iron out some of the difficulties which have been raised in the course of this debate. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of the reported expenditure of $30,000 of Commonwealth funds on a sailing boat or yacht in Western Australia under the Schools Commission's innovations program? Is he aware that  Mr Peter  Samuel reported in the  Bulletin  of 28 March that Canberra politicians are disturbed by this purchase. As I am a politician who is disturbed by that report as it appears in the  Bulletin,  can the Minister confirm whether the expenditure of $30,000 on a yacht in fact occurred? Can he, and does he, justify the expenditure of taxpayers' funds on this educational innovation? 
I support the legislation before the Senate and oppose both the amendments to the second reading. I cannot accept the first amendment for the reference of the Bill to a committee before its passage for reasons I shall make clear shortly which relate to the importance of passing the Bill without delay. It will become quite apparent in my speech why the Australian Labor Party amendment is unacceptable to me. I emphasise that I am supporting what I see as a limited piece of legislation. The limits are clear from the speeches which have been made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in the House of Representatives and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this place. This Bill relates solely to the right of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities on Aboriginal and Island reserves in Queensland to manage their own affairs. Although it involves some complexities, that is the simple and sole objective of this Bill. 
I shall comment briefly on a couple of points made by  Senator Wood.  He placed some emphasis on what he saw as a poor history of health care and a number of other things on the Aurukun reserve. That attitude was put forward today and last night as something which ought to cast doubts upon a Commonwealth move into this area. It is important for the Senate and the public to recall that the incidents about which  Senator Wood  is concerned, cases of poor health and administrative problems, have taken place under a system which is basically controlled by the Queensland State Government. I refer to the Aborigines Act of 1 97 1 of that State. Section 1 5 makes it quite clear that the GovernorinCouncil who acts on the advice of the Queensland Ministers, may place the reserve under the management of a religious organisation. The same section provides that a person in charge of that religious organisation should be regarded as an assistant district officer in relation to the reserve. It also provides that an assistant district officer is, in the administration of the Act, subject to the Minister and to the Director. 
Section 7 and section 10 of the Act make it quite clear that the Director has the power to do as his title suggests, to direct. Apart from the fact that the State is engaged in the provision of the fundamental services on the reserves, the State Government has maintained the power to direct. The role of the manager is limited by that power. Therefore, it seems to me to be quite irrelevant to raise past deficiencies and to suggest that in some way they indicate that it is the State which ought to be confirmed in its management of the reserves. I also reject completely with some regret the suggestion by  Senator Wood  that this legislation is currying favour with the electorate. If that is  Senator Wood's  view then he does not move about in my electorate. My view is that the electorate substantially has lost interest in Aboriginal affairs. I believe that for a long time there was substantial political pressure on governments to be active in this field. But at the moment the public is far more aware of failures than of successes in the field of Aboriginal affairs administration. It is my conclusion that the public has become impatient with the expenditure of government funds and with the Government for giving attention to this issue. I do not agree with that section of public opinion which I have struck in my State and in the other States of Australia. But I think we have passed the period when any cheap votes are to be picked up in this field. I therefore support the Government on the basis suggested by  Senator Wood,  namely, that it is trying to do what is right in the particular situation. I hope that the Australian public will examine carefully what the Government is doing and will accept that its motivation is to do what is right and also that what it is doing is right. 
There is a dispute about the timing of this legislation. We have amendments before us which propose that the legislation should be sent to committees and we have had arguments put to us as to why the legislation should be delayed. All those arguments are arguments of force and substance. I accept that the reasoning put forward by  Senator Wright  in that regard is strong and well founded. The idea of consultation with the National Aboriginal Conference immediately appeals to me, as it appeals to  Senator Wright  and to many honourable senators opposite. One simple fact makes that course of action impossible and that is in the last few weeks undertakings have been given to those communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island which I do not think the Parliament can see dishonoured. That is the simple fact which causes me to put aside what I see as sensible arguments put forward both by honourable senators opposite and by some of my colleagues on this side. Any deeper examination of the legislation is something that will have to be subsequent to and not before its passage. I concede that in most circumstances I would prefer that order to be reversed. For the record I refer to a telegram given to me by  Senator Neville  Bonner which he received yesterday from the  Chairman  of the Aurukun Council. It reads: 
We the council of Aurukun request you most urgently to pass legislation today. 
A similar telegram was received by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I say to the members of the National Aboriginal Conference who are in Canberra, and who have requested us to delay the legislation, that I and I am sure the Government, is not agreeing to that request simply because it has made commitments which it would be quite wrong for it now to break. There has been some discussion in this debate about whether the Aurukun community has changed its mind over the past few years. I am indebted to honourable senators from Queensland, who have a far more detailed knowledge of the situation than I, for casting some light on the complexity of facts in that State. It may be of interest to the Senate and to the Parliament if I refer to the report of the ombudsman or the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigations, which is his title in Queensland. The report was made in 1 976 upon the facts surrounding the attitude of the Aurukun people to the proposed mining venture. I will quote very briefly from it. On page 2 of the report the Commissioner states: 
The Presbyterian Church has a seventy year involvement with this Mission and its healthy, widespread influence is reflected in that the Aurukuns referred again and again to the Church as 'The Mother'. Unquestionably, the people now have no wish to remove themselves from this influence. 
Within the past few months some Aurukuns petitioned to have the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement replace the Church in the active management and control of the Mission, but allowing the Church to continue to care for their spiritual needs. 
In view of this contradiction, I asked the Councillors for :in explanation. They replied, quite simply, that the people hud changed their minds since lodging the petition. 
Again, I have to agree that it is not helpful to the Parliament to have changes of mind and of position. But I think those findings of the ombudsman are of some assistance to us in at least determining the general attitude of the Aborigines to the Church which has been referred to in rather different ways by different speakers in this debate. 
I express my disappointment at the attitude of the Opposition to this legislation. Reference has already been made to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bill  Hayden, on Monday of last week, 27 March, issued a statement which sits very oddly with the position at present adopted by the Opposition.  Mr Hayden  at that time asked the Prime Minister to recall the National Parliament in that week for the speedy passage of legislation. He suggested that the House of Representatives should pass the legislation on Thursday, that the Senate should pass it on the Friday and that the legislation should then immediately be proclaimed. What sort of consideration of the Bill would that have permitted the Opposition? What sort of consideration would that have permitted this chamber, which has had two full days to consider the legislation after receiving somewhat better notice? What sort of legislation was the Leader of the Opposition calling for? I quote from his Press release which states: 
The Opposition will support passage the same day of suitable and fair legislation to ensure the Aboriginal communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island remain able to determine their own future. 
I particularly draw the Senate's attention to the words: 'Legislation which will ensure that they remain able to determine their own future'. I would think that that is precisely what this legislation does. An understanding of this legislation requires some broader understanding of the context in which it is enacted. If I have some difference of view from  Senator Wright  on this Bill then it rests on a different understanding of the position which we are trying to tackle. The Commonwealth has, since the 1 967 referendum, had agreements with all States except Queensland that it should be responsible for policy, planning and co-ordination of Aboriginal affairs. Queensland is the sole exception to that agreement. The Commonwealth, since 1 967, has assumed total responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination around Australia. It has in each State encouraged the maintenance of State responsibilities. In no State does the Commonwealth provide the executive means of delivering what are regarded as the necessary services to Aborigines. 
Quite the contrary. Health, education, welfare, housing and law enforcement are all managed by the States. I do not quarrel with that; I think it is right and proper. That situation applies right around Australia, in each of the six States. It is a position which I hope will continue to apply in all six States, including Queensland. There are reserves in Queensland and in other States. These areas of land have been set aside for Aboriginal communities to live on. In every State, but Queensland, to a great extent Aborigines regulate their own affairs. That is why I put aside what seemed terribly weighty pleas by  Senator Wright  that we should not create Alsatias in Australia, that we should not have these pockets where people elect to be different and separate and to have their own law. The fact is that at the moment we have reserves right around Australia and of course we have had them for the whole of  Senator Wright's  considerable life time. 
The other thing I mention is that we have a firm Commonwealth policy that the Aboriginal people should be allowed self-management. For hundreds of years in general the Aboriginal people have been directed as to how they shall live, where they shall go and what they shall do. A total failure in the main of those policies is known to all of us. We know of their scandalous history- I tend to agree with  Senator Wright  that perhaps it does little good to rake over that scandalous history- to which some honourable senators have referred in horrifying and graphic terms. But the purpose of the present move is no more than to protect that concept of selfmanagement, that Aborigines be allowed to make decisions for themselves. 
I listened very carefully to the argument set out by  Senator Wright  last night, which appears at page 957 of  Hansard.  I simply say to him that I believe that what we are doing now is not a challenge to the unity of Australia. It is not a challenge in the same way as the closed religious orders which operate in my electorate are not a challenge to the unity of Australia. It is not a challenge in the same way that the communities of the universities which make their own laws for application on campus are not a challenge to the unity of Australia. I do not believe that the alternative lifestyle communities that are growing up in this country are in any sense a challenge to the unity of Australia. They are all part of a free society in which people can opt for their own way of life. 
I say also, in contradiction to my colleague who sits next to me,  Senator Wood,  that I reject very firmly the suggestion that land rights is some form of apartheid. Apartheid is the concept of enforced separation based on racial inferiority. What we have in Australia is a system of choice, a system under which Aborigines are for the first time being given property rights. Like other property owners, they are entitled to exercise those rights. Those people who say that Aborigines are being given special privileges regarding this land ought to note that we are trying to protect a special sort of relationship with land which carries with it also some severe disadvantages. If  Senator Wright  has the good fortune, for example, to own a rural property from which he can eject trespassers, he also has a right to sell it, to take his proceeds and to spend his life in the South Seas, on the Bahamas, or at the casino in Hobart. Because of the special title that we have with land for Aborigines, they are restricted in that way. The land is held by trustees and cannot be alienated. So the whole argument becomes far too confused, and the use of the word 'apartheid', in my view, is an attempt to appeal to the worst instincts in this community. I regret very much that an honourable senator from my Party should put forward that assertion. 
I think I have made it clear that this legislation is not introducing something which is new. At the moment under Queensland legislation land councils exist, and those councils have a set of rules which are quite separate from the general laws which apply throughout Queensland. I have with me a copy of those rules, and an examination of them discloses that under existing Queensland State law all sorts of specific separate provisions apply to the reserves only. They are called the Aborigines Regulations of 1972. They read in part: 
Every resident on . . . a Reserve . . . shall obey all lawful instructions of the Director, District Officer, Manager, Councillors or other officers of such Reserve or Community. 
Every resident . . . shall conform to a reasonable standard of good conduct and refrain from any behaviour detrimental to the well-being of other persons thereon. 
Every resident . . . who does any act subversive of good order or discipline on such Reserve ... or who endangers the safety of a resident . . . shall be guilty of an offence. 
That is the existing law. Therefore I say to those people who have been concerned at the argument put forward by  Senator Wright:  In what way are we introducing some new separation, some new Alsatia? We are simply saying that the people who live on those reserves should be allowed to have a regulation which is chosen by them and not imposed upon them without their having any choice. 
There are two other major areas of concern, and they are important. The first is the area of States rights and the second is that the Bill does not go far enough. As far as States rights are concerned, I have already referred to the 1967 referendum which clearly imposes on the Commonwealth responsibilities in this field. It gave us the power to enact special laws for the people. That was followed by agreements made with five States which gave us all of the policy responsibility in this area. Because I do not think the details have been brought forward in this debate, I shall seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the voting results in that referendum in 1967. There can be seen what must be most massive majority in the history of referenda in Australia. The figures bear out the overwhelming public support in 1967 for an assumption of Commonwealth responsibility. Those figures underline the fact that we must act in situations such as that which we face now. I seek leave of the Senate to have that table incorporated in  Ilansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197804070_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

I want again to refer to  Senator Wright's  speech, because I believe that in a sense it does show the difference that lies between us- that is, I think most government senators- and  Senator Wright  on this occasion is a difference of judgment. Page 961 of yesterday's  Hansard  shows that  Senator Gietzelt  directed this interjection to  Senator Wright: 
What was the purpose of the referendum if it was not to give to the national authority power to legislate? 

 Senator Wright replied: 
In case of need of course, but who would, upon the present evidence, say that there is need? 
So I say that in my view which is not that of  Senator Wright,  we have reached a point where there is a present need. Therefore, that is the difference- a difference of judgment. 
The legislation has been carefully drawn to save existing State laws. I draw the attention of the Senate to clause 9 (2) which makes it clear that while laws can be made to cover a great list of items that the proposed section of the Act is not to be 'construed as preventing anybody, authority or person other than the Council for a Reserve' from providing services. That provision is in the Bill as an express saving of the right of the State to continue to carry out its constitutional responsibilities in these areas. If a subsequent examination of this legislation is made, I think the question to be examined carefully is whether there ought to be a specific clause designed to save State laws. 
I refer, as an example of what I am talking about, to section 30 of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act which we passed in 1976. That Act specifically points out that by-laws made by associations do not affect other laws. A simple clause of that kind would not work in this legislation which does affect some other laws, but a saving clause carefully drawn might do something to ease the concern of those who are worried about this aspect of the Bill. I take comfort in the views expressed by the officers of the Attorney-General's Department who have advised on this matter. Their advice was that the meaning of the Bill is what I myself took it to be when I first read it, namely, that State laws will continue to operate and other laws such as the criminal law, traffic law and other matters which are of concern to some honourable senators, will continue to apply to reserves in exactly the same way as they do now. 
One other very important matter I think needs to be in our minds at this time, and that is that we are looking not just at State rights but also at a situation in which we depend upon State services. We have a dependence on the States in this area, and therefore we are dependent upon the goodwill of State governments, including the State Government of Queensland. I hope that we can rely on the Queensland Government to behave with decency in this area. I certainly expect it to do so. I am sure that the Queensland Government is made up of men who have the best interests of the Queensland community at heart. I underline the fact that the services which are required by those communities are basically in the hands of State officers and State officials. Therefore those men have the power to subvert any attempt by the Commonwealth to grant selfmanagement in any short period. So, in my contribution to this debate, I simply acknowledge the reliance and dependence we have on State goodwill. Therefore I welcome the offers of negotiation and of conference which were made by both the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the last couple of days. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I concluded my remarks before the suspension of the sitting for lunch on the general subject of the reliance of Aboriginal welfare on State services. I was making some sort of plea for State co-operation. The other matter I wish to mention in regard to the extent to which this legislation impinges upon Queensland is the possible overriding of State legislation which has received some attention in this debate. I think the sorts of examples which have been given, such as that which suggested that the reserves would have their own traffic laws set up in contradistinction to the general State traffic laws, are extremely unlikely. There are three safeguards against that sort of legislation. Such legislation, I agree, would be unwise. The safeguards are: Firstly, the good sense of the councils themselves; secondly, the fact that the Commonwealth Minister must approve any proposed by-law; and thirdly, any proposed by-law is subject to disallowance in either House of the national Parliament. For those reasons, one can be reasonably confident that the by-laws which will be made by councils will be those which will relate to their domestic management and not those which cut across general State law. 
In the time which remains to me I touch on the other major issues which I mentioned earlierthe complaint that this legislation should go further. The National Aboriginal Conference and the Opposition have been critical of the legislation because it does not go far enough. 
They suggest that the Commonwealth Government should be prepared to resume the reserves, to take them over from the State totally. I think for a number of reasons that course at this stage would be most unwise. The first reason is the simple matter of cost. It is well known to all honourable senators that the Commonwealth cannot resume without paying fair compensation. We are being called upon by those who suggest the provisions of the Bill should go that far to buy the Queensland reserves from the State Government.  Senator Lawrie,  in a speech in 1974, said that there were 7 million acres of reserves in Queensland. Quite obviously one would be looking at a substantial sum of money if the Commonwealth contemplated resuming the reserves. The money would simply be paid to the State of Queensland at a great cost to the Commonwealth. It would not benefit the Aboriginal people in any way. I think for that reason alone this aspect is something that we should approach with caution. 
The major reason why I would not advocate the extension of the provisions of this Bill to include the resumption of reserves is that we would be inviting substantial confrontation. Already we have the spectre of confrontation over this Bill. We have had a quite unsatisfactory couple of weeks in which an attempt at negotiation was destroyed by, I believe, the crowing of the Premier and an attempt to get the parties talking- the Queensland Government, the councils and the Church- foundered. As I said before lunch, I hope there will be co-operation between these groups. 
Let me hark back to the somewhat pessimistic comments that I made earlier in my speech about the general attitude of the Australian community to matters relating to Aboriginals and to Aboriginal policy. For the Commonwealth to take the drastic step of resuming the reserves, unless it could be clearly demonstrated that no other course was available to it, would, in my view, exacerbate the bad relations which exist in some places. I think such action would be an invitation to a most destructive attitude on the part of State governments and particularly the Queensland Government. For reasons which go through my whole attitude to this question of race- I believe that to have a good community we need to have good co-operative relations- I say very firmly to the Opposition and to the National Aboriginal Conference that they should not advocate that sort of drastic action at this stage. They should concentrate on what has been the issue in this period of conflict, and that is the right of these communities simply to manage their domestic and community affairs. That is the issue with which we are faced. Negotiations have not succeeded on this issue and, indeed, have not been really offered in any sensible way. It is that limited issue with which we seek to deal now. If there are people who are impatient about the rate of progress, I simply say that they should bear in mind that we are trying to ensure that the Australian community maintains sensible relationships between communities. I have made it quite clear that I see decent, reasonable and honourable behaviour by the State Government as essential to our success in this exercise. I have already said that I ask members of the Queensland Government to try to deal with the Commonwealth in a spirit of conciliation, in the spirit that we wish to help the Aboriginal people to lead the lives that they themselves wish. 
I am a little saddened by the matter which was raised by an honourable senator opposite of the reported dismissal of  Mrs Colless  from a committee of inquiry which the State Government had established. I think if it is true, as has been alleged in this place, that she was removed from that committee because she had expressed attitudes which were not favourable to the State Government, it is a reflection of an attitude we must put behind us, the attitude that if Aborigines are saying things which we do not like to hear we will shut our ears and try to keep the Aborigines quiet. In the very difficult thicket in which we have found ourselves at the moment I ask the Opposition to face up to the complexities of the situation which the Government is faced with at the moment. Members of the Opposition should not use their feelings in this matter to make a difficult situation worse. We should, with the utmost spirit of co-operation, press on with this legislation and see what we can do to improve the position in Queensland. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware that cadets in the Naval Reserve in Western Australia have been planning a training camp for May and that such camps, in the past, received a subsidy from the Commonwealth? Is the Minister aware that in February of this year the cadets were advised that funds from the Commonwealth would not be forthcoming and that the cadets involved could cancel the camp or go ahead if they wished? Is it a fact that the subsidy in the past has been the amount of $10 per head per cadet? Is the Minister aware that community groups are providing assistance to bring boys from Carnarvon to Perth at a cost of $1,900 and that the removal of the Commonwealth's subsidy is a matter of some concern to the cadet group? Can the Minister say why the subsidy is not available? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Do the provisions of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act permit senators and members who have been members of State legislatures to enter the Commonwealth parliamentary pension scheme and to obtain credit for their period of service in the State legislature? Secondly, can this procedure result in such senator or member obtaining an immediate or accelerated entitlement to a Commonwealth parliamentary pension payable on death or retirement? Thirdly, does the procedure require such senator or member to contribute some or all of the proceeds received from State schemes to the Commonwealth scheme and, if so, what contribution is required? Fourthly, is it possible for a double benefit to be obtained by retention of some or all of the State retiring allowance while receiving full credit for the period of State service in the Commonwealth scheme? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen reports that the services provided to certain isolated centres in the Kimberleys in Western Australia by MacRobertson Miller Airline Services are to be discontinued because of the removal of a Commonwealth subsidy of approximately $16,000? Are the reports correct? Is the Minister familiar with the isolated situation and difficult terrain which make transport in the Kimberleys both difficult and expensive? Will the Minister have the matter examined to ensure that the communities concerned will not lose essential transport services? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of representations made to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by the Wireless Institute of Australia in August last about illegal transmitting operations throughout the radio frequency spectrum and, in particular, those parts affecting the amateur service? Has the Minister for Post and Telecommunications yet responded to those representations? Can the Minister indicate what action, if any, is being taken to police frequency spectrum usage to prevent interference with legal radio activities? 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer noted the death-bed conversion of the Labor Party to the concept of foreign investment, as evidenced by the reported statements in New York of a leading Labor spokeman, Premier Dunstan? Has the Minister also noted the absence of such pejorative expressions as 'multinational giants' and 'capitalist exploiters' from the Premier's current vocabulary and the positively 'tickle my tummy' approach that he is adopting at the Waldorf Astoria? Now that the Australian Labor Party seems to be getting over the phobias of its recent past, will the Minister do what he can to speed up the current review of the operations of the Foreign Investment Review Board with a view to doing away with some of the pettifogging bureaucratic procedures which at present bedevil and hinder foreign investment in this country? 
This is an occasion on which the Government is bringing forward a Bill with the apparent support of the Opposition although, as is usual in such cases, no doubt there will be some heated debate about the merits of the Bill. It is a difficult Bill to debate in a speech on the motion for the second reading, in a sense, because it is not a Bill which sets new directions for Aboriginal land rights. It is a Bill which makes a number of amendments in order to meet problems that have arisen under the present Bill. It does appear to me that to some extent  Senator Gietzelt  has misunderstood the thrust of the Bill in a number of particulars. He has expressed concern about the fact that the Bill represents an erosion of the principles established in the original Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. I think it is quite clear that that is not the case, and no doubt it is a matter on which there will be further debate during the Committee stage. In fact, it is the sort of Bill that can more properly be dealt with at the Committee stage. In my view, this Bill quite clearly extends the rights which were granted under the Aboriginal land rights legislation and it removes some of the problems which were not foreseen at the time that legislation was passed. 

 Senator Gietzelt made a number of complaints about the fact that some restriction has been put on Aboriginal ownership. He referred at some length to the areas which will form part of the Kakadu National Park. It is simply not right to describe this legislation as some new restriction, because in fact the land about which we are talking and which is subject to the arrangements contained in this Bill was not Aboriginal land under the provisions of the original legislation. This legislation in fact represents an extension of Aboriginal land rights beyond those granted in 1 976. The extension is made subject to a number of conditions which follow the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Fox. Of course, the Aboriginal communities involved made recommendations to the Fox inquiry.  Mr Justice  Fox recommended that the land should go to the Aborigines subject to a lease to the National Parks and Wildlife Service. That recommendation is not one which the Government dreamed up as a restriction on Aborigines. It is a restriction which in fact was put forward by Aborigines themselves. 
My attention has been drawn to the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. On page 204 of that report it is pointed out by the Fox inquiry that it regarded the wishes of Aborigines for land rights in the area as of prime importance in any consideration of the establishment of a national park. The inquiry goes on to say that the Northern Land Council proposed that the areas within the region claimed as Aboriginal land- this is the area about which we are talking now- should be a national park. In fact, it was a recommendation which came from the Aborigines themselves that the procedure we are following now should be followed. Therefore it seems to me to be a quite unfair criticism of this Bill to suggest that it represents a stepping back from the 1 976 situation, when one bears in mind that in fact we are granting a greater area of land to the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. This move has been subject to arrangements which have as their genesis the suggestions of the Aborigines themselves. So I do think that that passage of  Senator Gietzelt  's speech did the Government rather less than justice. 
The other matter in  Senator Gietzelt  's comments which concerned me was his claim that in some way the Government was fostering a closed government and the restriction under this legislation of access by Aborigines to information. The fact of the matter is that the legislation, together with the other Bills with which we will be dealing shortly, provides very extensive powers to the Aborigines concerned, not only in relation to access to information but also in relation to the enforcement of standards which are imposed upon mining companies. What this Bill does by way of restriction is to place penalties on a disclosure of that information for purposes other than the proper purposes of enforcing the restrictions. In other words, the information to which the Aborigines are given access is for the purpose of enforcing standards; it is not for the purpose of disclosing it to the commercial rivals of the mining companies. The restrictions which are imposed are restrictions which are simply in fairness to those who are trying to carry on business in that area. 
I think the really significant aspect of the amending Bill which is before us is not the amendments which it contains, although some of those amendments are of importance. I refer, for example, to the amendment which will enable us now to proceed to vest land in the Land Trust. As a practical matter that is important. What I see as the real importance of this Bill is that it amounts to a confirmation of the principles which the Government espoused in 1976 when it promoted the land rights legislation in this Parliament and saw that legislation passed through this Parliament. All honourable senators will be aware that in the last year or so there has been some fairly determined lobbying in an attempt to get the Government to move back from those principles. Every honourable senator in this chamber will have received representations from different interest groups suggesting that what was done in 1976 is a disaster and should be altered substantially. They do not suggest that we should alter that legislation in the way in which we are altering it now but that it should be altered in a way which would substantially diminish the rights of Aborigines in those areas. I welcome the statement contained in the second reading speech, which was delivered in this chamber by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  which makes it clear just what is motivating the Government and which makes it clear that the Government is acting in the knowledge of the sorts of pressures that I have mentioned but that it is determined to maintain its stance. I shall read that passage of the second reading speech because, following  Senator Gietzelt  's comments, I think it is appropriate that it should be reiterated. The Minister in this place said: 
We are aware that moves by Aboriginal people to assert their rights as provided by the Aboriginal Lands Rights Act have caused some people to become wary and even fearful of the new situation which now prevails. The Minister -  that refers to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner-  has said in the past that this new confidence being demonstrated by the Aboriginal people is a measure of the success of the Government's policy which provides for Aboriginal self-management. The Aboriginal Land Rights Act is a unique and historical piece of legislation. It provides the opportunity for Aboriginal people to participate in matters affecting their lives in a way which has hitherto been denied them. 
These words which follow are particularly important: 
This needs to be accepted by those people who have in the past been used to making decisions for Aboriginals, or for those who have been able to take decisions which might vitally affect Aboriginals without thought for Aboriginal opinion. 
That in fact has been the position in Australia for the whole of the period of settlement. The fact of the matter has been that Aborigines have provided as little fetter to non-Aboriginal activity as have kangaroos. They have been pushed back whenever it met the commercial, social and economic convenience of the rest of the population The significant aspect of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill which was passed in 1976- now the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act- is that it represents a stop to that process which has gone on throughout European settlement in this country. I welcome the Minister's affirmation that people dealing with areas which are subject to Aboriginal rights now have to accept that Aborigines do have rights in these matters and that they have to be accommodated accordingly. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs further went on in his speech to affirm the policy that we should allow Aboriginals 'as owners of their land, to follow their own lifestyles on their own land to the extent that they choose, to participate in and influence the course of development of and on their traditional land, and to take advantage of the full range of opportunities which development may open up to them'. Again that is an important statement because it is implicit in that statement that at times Aborigines will make choices which will not suit other people; but they will be choices which they make in their own freedom to make them, to follow their own lifestyles and to live their own lives on their own land. I support that concept and I believe it is important that the Government has reaffirmed the principle. 
I shall refer now to some of the opposition which has arisen over recent months to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, and I shall make some comments on it. I wish also in chiding some of the critics- I refer here to the Australian Mining Industry Council- also to chide the Northern Land Council in regard to one particular. I think it is a pity that the Northern Land Council has chosen in the preliminary comments it made on the draft Northern Territory legislation- the complementary legislation- to claim Aboriginal ownership of minerals. When we passed the land rights law we set out quite clearly, specifically and expressly in that law that the ownership of minerals remained with the Crown. What we did, however, was to give the Aboriginal people, the owners, extensive rights to the surface which meant that persons seeking the minerals could take them subject to the greater right of the Aborigines to surface use and to surface enjoyment. 
I am sorry that the Northern Land Council has really added strength to the opposition of the Australian Mining Industry Council to the Bill by using the expression 'Aboriginal ownership of minerals'. I am referring to the comments which were forwarded to all of us and to page 4 of those comments in particular. There is a lot of false argument in this area. It is alleged that Aborigines are being given a special right which is not possessed by any other section of the community. It has been said that for the rest of Australia minerals belong to the Crown and that private land owners cannot prevent the mining of minerals. That claim is simply not true. 
I refer to another document which I am sure was sent to all honourable senators. It is headed Mining Review' published by the Australian Mining Industry Council. In bold type on the front page of that document it asks: 
Who owns Australia 's minerals? 
Underneath that it states: 
Public ownership of minerals in Australia is a legal principle which has been observed from the earliest colonial days. 
I cannot speak for the rest of the colonies- I come from the colony of Western Australia- but I would like the Senate to know that, from the earliest colonial days in Western Australia, land which was alienated from the Crown carried mineral rights. All early grants of land in Western Australia carried the minerals, which became the property of the owner of the land. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and I have had a minor difference of opinion on this matter. I think the relevant year was 1896. He thinks it was 1899.  His  memory is much better than mine, so it is probably 1 899. In any land title in Western Australia where the fee simple was granted prior to that date- 1896 or 1 899- the minerals belong to the private owner. 
Not gold and silver; I am speaking of minerals other than the royal minerals. The same provision applied to the grants of land to the Midland Railway Company. They all contained a grant of minerals to the Railway Company. That was the company that built the line to Geraldton. I must say that in the case of most of that land the mineral rights have reverted to the Crown under legislation which was enacted in the 1960s or 1970s- whenever it was that the railway company reverted to the Crown. So there has been a resumption of mineral rights in those cases. 
Even more significant than that are the current provisions of the Western Australian Mining Act. Those provisions ensure that the private owners of land in Western Australia- for example, owners of farming land- are protected absolutely against any surface interference with their land. It is true that a prospector can enter private land and take off20 lb or 30 lb of samples, but to go beyond that he has to get a tenement under the Mining Act. I refer the Senate to section 1 40 of the Mining Act which provides: 
Except with the consent in writing of the owner and the occupier of the land, no mining tenement shall be granted or occupied comprising private land- 
that is in bona fide and regular use as a yard, garden, orchard, vineyard, plant nursery, plantation or land under cultivation; 
It is the last category that is significant because land under cultivation' is subsequently defined as 'land being used for the purpose of cropping or pasturing' and 'land, whether cleared or uncleared, used for the agistment of stock in the ordinary course of management of the owner's land of which the land so used forms the whole or any part'. In other words, if a person owns 6,000 acres of land in Western Australia of which 3,000 acres are cleared and 3,000 acres are uncleared and if he uses the uncleared land for the agistment of stock during dry seasons, which is normal farming practice in Western Australia, he could absolutely prevent any miner from mining his land unless the miner goes to a depth of more than 100 feet below the land. If the miner could get access through a neighbouring property and go underneath the land he could get away with it but he cannot interfere with that person's land to a depth of 100 feet. In practice that means that in the case of major minerals such as bauxite, uranium and beach sands the owner of the land has the absolute say in whether his land should be mined. 
The Australian Mining Industry Council should bear that in mind when it puts out such pamphlets, distributes them to members of Parliament and makes statements suggesting that there is something peculiar about the rights which are being granted to Aborigines in this case. I see a very clear parallel between the protection of farmers in Western Australia and the protection which is being given to Aborigines under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. I chide the Australian Mining Industry Council for what I see as a rather deceptive form of presentation in at least part of this document. On page 3 in a section dealing with the problems surrounding proposed developments in the Northern Territory it states: 
In the case of one project, the proposals of the Northern Land Council would mean that it would receive 36 per cent of the operating profit (before taxes and royalties)- 
I understand that is the claim being made by the Northern Land Council with respect to the Ranger project. I have not seen documentation of that but I understand that it is the Ranger proposal that is to be negotiated. The statement goes on: 
. while the two private enterprise participants would each only receive a 16 per cent share. After payment of royalties and Commonwealth income tax, this share would be reduced to less than 8 percent. 
I think that is a misleading statement because the Ranger project is, of course, only partly owned by private participants. The Commonwealth has a majority capital share in the project and it is entitled to 50 per cent of the profits. Even if the Northern Land Council's opening negotiating position were accepted- it may not be- and even if it received its 36 per cent, the equity participants would receive 64 per cent of the profits. It still might be a quite outrageous proposition. That is a matter which is open to debate and on which I am sure there will be differences of opinion. It is a pity that the AMIC should state that the private participants' are receiving 16 per cent each. I think that gives an inaccurate picture to the person who is reading the publication and who may not have knowledge of the other facts that I have mentioned. 
Some very well known names are listed as being on the Executive Committee of the Australian Mining Industry Council.  Sir James  McNeill is listed as the  president,  although I think he may have resigned recently from that position. Other well known names include those of  Mr Rod  Carnegie,  Sir James  Foots,  Sir Brian  Massy-Greene,  Mr Irwin  Newman, and lots of other people who are very important in the community and in the mining industry. I would have thought that they would have been extremely cautious about putting out a company prospectus that would contain information in that form. It does them, their organisation and the mining industry less than justice to have arguments put forward in that form in the name of the Australian Mining Industry Council. I say publicly that I am disappointed that that sort of argument is used to mar what I think is meant to be a genuine contribution to public debate in an important area. 
The real point of what I have been trying to say in the last 10 minutes is simply that, under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act we have given considerable rights to the Aboriginal owners of land. That was done as a conscious act of policy in 1976. Certain things flow from it, including considerable inconvenience to people who would like to take up mining on that land, and who would probably make less profit than they would make if the land were waste land of the Crown and open for them to take simply for normal government royalties. The fact is that some owners have to be considered and their rights have to be taken into account. The participants will have to sit down and work out what those rights are worth commercially in a trading situation. Again, that situation is not unique. Messrs Hancock and Wright, who as a matter of fact once employed me, carry off  2lA  per cent of the gross profit of Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd on the basis of an agreement which they negotiated with Hamersley Iron. That information is contained in the prospectus of that company and there is nothing confidential about it. They obtained that right on the basis that they had temporary reserves over certain mineral deposits. They sat down and did a very good deal. I do not begrudge it to them. It has greatly increased the Australian equity in the Hamersley project and that is a good thing for this country. It will not be a bad thing for this country that some of the enormous cash flows that 1 believe will be generated from the uranium industry eventually will find their way into the Aboriginal communities which own these northern areas. I have no doubt that in the long term it will free the taxpayers of Australia of what is at present a considerable economic burden. 
I commend the Government for bringing in this amending legislation. I believe that some problems remain in the legislation and I would like to refer to them. In this legislation, as in the existing Aboriginal Land Rights Act. there are provisions for arbitration. There are a number of situations in which, in the absence of agreement between the Northern Land Council and a miner, the Government or perhaps in this case the National Parks and Wildlife Service, the matter under dispute can be put to arbitration. That is an essential provision because obviously, if an Act simply provides for an agreement and if the parties cannot agree, then the whole Act is nullified and we will get nowhere. It bothers me that an issue can be sent to arbitration with no guidelines provided for the arbitrator. I think that the mining industry has a fair complaint with respect to the possibilities of arbitration over something like the Ranger project and the conditions under which mining might be carried out. I think it is a fair complaint that there is a possibility that in arbitration about the terms of a lease from the Aboriginal owners to the National Parks and Wildlife Commission the terms of that lease really will depend on the person who is chosen as arbitrator. He will have to try to find some guidelines from the Act and that guidance will have to be by way of implication rather than any expressions contained in it. I believe that the real problem lies in the fact that if the arbitrator chosen is unsympathetic to either side it could result in an unjust decision. 
I understand that it has been too difficult to draw up guidelines to help arbitrators in these circumstances but I think that simply underlines the quite impossible job that an arbitrator would be asked to do. I suggest that the Government bend its collective mind to the problem and do something to define the principles that arc to be followed by an arbitrator in each of these circumstances. In the case of mining I think that one principle which has been expressed is that the minerals belong to the Crown but that would be the only obvious guide which is available to the arbitrator at the moment. I do not think that there is sufficient protection for the nation, for the Aborigines, for the miners or for anybody else in these at large arbitral provisions. For that reason I commend the matter to the Government for further attention in the hope that we might have a further debate on the land rights legislation next year, unfortunate as that might seem to some honourable senators. I commend the Bill and I await with interest the Committee stage where I think it will be demonstrated that the fear expressed by  Senator Gietzelt  that this Bill reduces the rights of Aborigines rather than enhancing and protecting them is in fact groundless. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of the February 1976 report of the Advisory Committee on Program Standards, the Edgar Committee, and its recommendation that a television licence be revoked in each of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide? Is the Minister also aware that that recommendation was made on the basis 'that the removal of one television station in each of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide would mean that there would be increased revenues for each remaining station to spend on programming. This would also mean that there would be fewer hours of television for which programs have to be found, and inferior products could be dropped.'? I add that, having watched television in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide, obviously there is a need to drop some inferior programs. The report continues: 
Clearly, a quality commercial television service is dependent upon profits being made, and these profits being channelled back to improve programs. 
In the light of that, can any credence be given to suggestions that there ought to be a third commercial television channel in Western Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations, follows the question asked by  Senator McLaren,  which, as I heard it, was seeking protection for local wine as against plum wine. In the light of the representations contained in the earlier question, is it still appropriate for the Government to be seeking greater entry into the Common Market on behalf of our primary producers when there is such an obvious desire on the part of the primary producers of the Riverlands to be protected against any competition? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the Press release of the Overseas Student Service dated 14 February 1978, asserting that the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting can make no contribution to solving the real problems of Asia and the Pacific 
What is the status of the Overseas Student Service. 
3 ) Is the Overseas Student Service receiving funds from either the Government or the Australian Union of Students. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the accounts which are received by senators and members of the House of Representatives from his Department relating to the use of the motor vehicle service. I refer in particular to a recent set of accounts that I received which included two charges of $26.56, each of which relates to the use of a motor vehicle in Canberra, one for a period of 15 minutes and the other for a period of 20 minutes. The explanation which has been given to me by the Department is that when a Commonwealth car instead of a taxi is asked for on Saturday, Sunday or public holidays, as is indicated by the attachment to the accounts, there is a minimum charge for 90 minutes of $26.55 and that is why the charges appear excessive. Is it a fact that there is a cost to the taxpayer of $26.55 when a Commonwealth car is used for a short period on the weekend or is that some sort of accounting exercise? If there is a cost to the taxpayer of $26.55 will he take steps to see that the service is discontinued and that members of Parliament use taxis at much less cost? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen reports that a Western Australian company, Solahart Pty Ltd, has achieved a significant breakthrough in gaining a market for Australian designed solar energy appliances in the Middle East? Can the Minister advise the Senate of the steps being taken by the Government to foster the development of this industry and similar industries by which economic gains could be made from Australian technology? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Has the Government considered the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in its report on  Australia and the Refugee Problem,  that: (a) an Australian refugee policy council be established to assist the Government in the formulation of an Australian policy on all aspects of refugee resettlement; and ( b ) a standing interdepartmental committee on refugees be established. 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the Human Rights Commission Bill which was introduced during the last Parliament and which has not yet been reintroduced. What are the Government's intentions with respect to the Bill? Is it to be reintroduced, and, if so, when? 
I wish to address myself to some of the other clauses of the Bill. Just for the record, I indicate that I support the Bill in its present form and will not be supporting  Senator Rae's  amendment. The speech which has just been made by 

 Senator Haines was most interesting. I think her description of those who indulge in Curran schemes as people indulging in greedy dreams was most apt, and it is a description which I adopt. One reason why I support the Government in this matter, quite apart from the doubts I have about whether what is proposed is truly retrospective in any event, is that in the last 12 months I have had a large number of inquiries from people about the Curran scheme. All those inquiries have been as to what was the Government's intention with respect to retrospectivity. The inquiries came from both professional people and participants in such schemes. In every case that I struck, the people involved were well aware of  Mr Crean  's statement in 1974. They were well aware of the Treasurer's statement in the Budget. In all cases they had been warned or were warning their clients, where they were professionals, that there was an element of risk. 
Quite frankly, I think this is an area in which we had a group of punters. They were taking a punt with their eyes open, and they will just happen to lose their bets if this legislation is passed. I have no sympathy for them. I believe that the principle against retrospective legislation which is designed to protect the citizen does not apply in this case. We are dealing with people who entered into utterly artificial schemes with a view usually to paying no tax at all. Their intention was not to reduce their tax burden but to pay none. The people involved were usually taxpayers with very high incomes. They comprised large numbers of medical practitioners and other professionals earning incomes that would be the envy of most of their fellow Australians. They were extremely greedy in their approach. Most of them want to pay no tax at all. I will be delighted if this legislation is passed and that greedy dream is brought to the ground. 
The other matters I want to raise relate to the provisions of the Bill, and particularly clause 20, which are supposed to be carrying out the Government's intention announced on 24 August 1977 in the House of Representatives to introduce a new income tax concession. In a speech  Mr Anthony  made in the House of Representatives on that date he said:   . . to introduce a new income tax concession to encourage exploration for, and development of, off-shore petroleum deposits. The new concession will be available in respect of moneys subscribed after today as paid-up capital to companies holding valid licences or permits under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act . . . 
I have some concern about the clauses of the Bill which relate to the carrying out of that proposal. My concern is not one which would lead me to put forward amendments because I believe the legislation is so complex that to try to amend it in this chamber on the run would be likely to produce some rather dreadful results. It seems to me that what has happened in the preparation of this legislation is that it has been geared particularly to the needs of the participants in the Woodside project. Most of  Mr Anthony's  statement lays emphasis on the fact that the development of the Woodside areas is of great national importance. The Government announced a series of measures which would assist that project to get off the ground. Notwithstanding that the statement of intention with respect of tax legislation was meant to encourage exploration generally and without limitation to that particular project, it appears that the provisions of the legislation are geared not to the general encouragement of exploration but to the particular needs of a particular project. 
I for one would like to see the Government reconsider some of the sub-clauses of clause 20 of the Bill. In particular, I refer to sub-clauses (4), (5), (6), (9), ( 15), and so on, which to my mind effectively leave problems for those companies which would be seeking to raise risk capital from the Australian community. In other words, in the case of a company which is going to the public and saying: 'Let us raise money to put in this very risky area of off-shore oil exploration', I think there are some deficiencies in what is proposed. The sorts of deficiencies are, for example, the requirement that, in the case of a company in the same year raising moneys required not for exploration but, say, for company administration, the 30 per cent rebate be reduced on a pro rata basis. A company may be formed for the purpose 01 indulging in exploration of off-shore areas. That is a perfectly legitimate thing to do. It is something which involves putting its money at risk and something which we want Australians to do. Too much of the risk capital in '.his country is provided by foreign investors who then pick up and go away with the considerable rewards that may follow. So we have a legitimate area of activity for companies formed in Australia to seek money from small individual investors. 
If a company is formed and seeks to raise that sort of money, it will cost it a proportion of its funds to do so. For example, a commission is paid when the funds are raised through a stockbroker. A company must have some administration expenses and part of those administration costs will directly relate to mounting an off-shore exploration effort. I think it is a pity that the funds which are raised and which of necessity must be raised for those purposes effectively reduce the benefit of the concession which is granted by this legislation. I understand the administrative difficulties, which officers of the Department have been kind enough to explain to me, which arose under the provisions of section 77D in the case of a company which has shares, some of which are entitled to rebate and some of which are not. I understand the administrative difficulties which can be involved. I believe that it ought not to be beyond the wit of both the Government and the Taxation Office to work out administrative procedures which would avoid the problems encountered in the past. I cannot see why a company should not raise funds in earmarked lots so that, for example, certain shares not subject to rebate are issued in a block and certain shares, all of which are subject to rebate, are issued in a block. The blocking of the shares would depend on the assessment of the company of how it intended to spend money in the future. 
So I ask the Government at this stage simply to take on board the fact that if it wants to encourage Australian investors it might look again at those provisions which I think will discourage Australian-owned companies from getting risk capital from small Australian investors. I am also a little concerned- again, I do no more than draw this to the attention of the Government and ask it to give it further consideration- at the fact that provisions which as a protective device have been inserted and which require public companies to be involved if the rebate is to be obtained. In this regard I am talking about the situation where there are intervening companies between the subscriber and the actual exploration company. I understand that there were considerable abuses in this field using section 77B, and for that reason the Government has to be careful. Companies in Western Australia have drawn my attention to the fact that there are substantial private companies in the resource areaforeign companies and companies from North America in particular- which are not public but which have considerable funds that they wish to bring into this area. I would not want to discourage them. I believe that it is possible- I simply lay it before the Government as a representation which I have received and which seems sensible to me- to water down the requirements and still avoid the problems of the past. I do not ask the Minister for an immediate response in respect of this matter, other than to give an undertaking that he will request the Government to again examine these matters which have already been the subject of representation to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and some response by letter from the Treasurer. 
I support the Bill that is before the Senate and oppose the Opposition's amendment. I listened with very great interest to the contributions of both representatives of the Northern Territory in this place-  Senator Robertson  who led for the Opposition and  Senator Kilgariff  who spoke before  Senator McLaren.  I think the speeches of both honourable senators certainly increased the knowledge of the chamber about the Northern Territory and helped us to see not only the advantages of this Bill but also some of the problems that exist. I thank them for their speeches. 
I am less thankful to  Senator McLaren  who seemed to me to spend the first half of his speech with his eyes rigidly fixed on the past. I thought that, in speaking to a Bill that is ushering in a new ara of political representation, of a new political system in the Northern Territory, the honourable senator made an extraordinarily backward-looking speech, a speech which really descended to saying: 'We did more than you did'. I found the internal illogicality and confusion of the speech quite unsettling and, really, it removed any pleasure I might have had in taking part in this debate. For example, I found it very difficult to follow whether or not he was saying it was a good thing that we had an elected Assembly. The honourable senator concluded his speech by saying that credit should be given to the Whitlam Government for this reform. He also said in his speech that he thought the fact that the Legislative Assembly had been made a fully elected body was the reason the Labor Party was decimated in the election that took place immediately after. The whole context of his speech and his claims about the great contribution made by the Labor Party sat very oddly with the lamentable polling of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory during the term of the 
Whitlam Government- a rate of vote-getting which showed the complete disenchantment of that community with the Whitlam Government. I thought that the contribution made by  Senator McLaren  really advanced us very little. This Bill - 

 - Senator Robertson again interjects in his angry manner and says: ' We do not buy votes'. Yet his colleague has just been saying that the legislation before us is a confidence trick to thrust burdens on to Territory electors. The honourable senator cannot have it both ways. I would suggest that Senators Robertson and Kilgariff, if they could bear it, should closet themselves for a while and decide which line of argument they are going to follow in the debate. I can see no common ground in the propositions that they are putting forward. 
Yes.  Senator McLaren  could be closeted with  Senator Robertson.  With any luck, only one of them would emerge. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! I think we had better get back to debating the Bill. 
I am indebted to  Senator Kilgariff  for pointing out that it was a submission by the Australian Labor Party in the Northern Territory to the joint committee, to which extensive reference has been made, that there should be a four-year term for the Legislative Assembly in the Territory. I think that is worth mentioning. 
I acknowledge that I got this information just now from  Senator Kilgariff.  It shows the confusion of ideas that have come forth from the Opposition on the subject of this Bill. If there had been a little more co-ordination to determine their attitude we might have got somewhere in this debate. However, with one criticism that was offered by both  Senator Robertson  and  Senator Kilgariff,  I agree. That concerned the inadequate consultation with respect to this legislation by the Government with the various bodies in the Territory that might be regarded as being interested. From what I have been told, the consultation with the Territory Executive, with the Legislative Assemblyincluding the Opposition- and with the community of the Territory generally- has been inadequate. The Bill has been produced in an unnecessarily confidential or secretive manner, which has prevented the Government from having the benefit of the kind of wide-ranging discussions that are desirable in areas of constitutional reform. 
If the Territory is to take further steps along this road, I would urge the Government not to make the same mistake again. I would hope that the Senate, particularly Territory representatives, would consider whether there should be reference to a Senate committee of the question of further constitutional development- with a view to ensuring a public avenue of debate and consultation that can be used in the Northern Territory by the Opposition, by the majority party, by the public and by all interested parties. That would ensure that views could be presented that could be taken into account in plenty of time before the next steps towards statehood are made. I suggest that in the Budget session we ought to consider a proposal of that sort and to the terms of reference which might appropriately be given to a Senate committee on the subject. Also, there has been insufficient acknowledgement in the debate of what I see as very constructive provisions of the Bill, when considered as representing the embryo constitution of a new State. 

 Senator Robertson referred to his concern, and to the fact that he intended to propose amendments to reduce the quota variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. I can understand that  Senator Robertson  would put that view forward. With respect to the Commonwealth Electoral Act, my own view is that a 10 per cent variation is appropriate. I would hope that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly would maintain a 10 per cent variation from quota, but I ask all honourable senators, including  Senator Robertson,  to bear in mind that for the first time we are to have in what will be effectively a State constitution a requirement to ensure that electoral boundaries will be fair. It is the requirement that has existed, under Federal legislation, for nearly 75 years of Federation, and under which in general very fair electoral boundaries have been drawn. I see the provisions of clause 1 3 as representing a considerable step forward in terms of the constitution of a State. I would hope that it would act as a precedent for some of the States of Australia. 
I also direct the attention of the Senate to the provisions of clause 14, which represent another safeguard, of a type which I believe would receive the unanimous approval of honourable senators. Thereby, all persons who are entitled to vote in Federal elections are assured of the right to vote for the Legislative Assembly- a useful safeguard, I would have thought, in this fledgling State. Clauses 49 and 50 are also worthy of note at this stage. They incorporate provisions which are properly part of any modern constitution. Clause 49 is very familiar and guarantees that the lawyers of the Territory will enjoy the fruits of endless litigation, just as the lawyers of Australia have enjoyed the fruits of litigation under section 92 of the Australian Constitution. 
Clause 50 provides that the Legislative Assembly cannot make laws for the acquisition of property otherwise than on just terms. That provision is not, to my knowledge, found in any State constitution, but is very properly included as an essential safeguard within this embryo constitution. Probably there has been quite enough debate on the Bill but I wanted principally to draw attention to some of the problems that, in my view, do remain. I do not propose to move amendments, because I think the kind we have considered would make the problems worse rather than better; but the Government is under an obligation to take a close second look at this legislation and probably to bring forward amendments to it during the next session of Parliament. I refer honourable senators to the speech of  Mr Ian  Wilson in the House of Representatives on 2 June, beginning at page 3034 of Hansard, and to his further comments during the Committee stages, as reported at page 3053, in which he foreshadowed the possibility of certain amendments being moved. 
The problem to which  Mr Wilson  referred relates to the provisions of clauses 6 and 35. We have a very odd situation in which this Bill gives the Legislative Assembly plenary legislative powers under clause 6; but under clause 35 proceeds to hand out executive power in dribs and drabs. I find that quite illogical. It was that disparity which we considered tackling by amendments to clauses 7 and 35. What we have effectively done in clause 6 is to grant the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory legislative powers that are in excess of those which are enjoyed by any State. In other words, we have gone beyond what, as I understand it. the Territory wants- State-type powers- and have given it the widest possible legislative authority. That legislative authority is restricted only by the powers which remain to the Commonwealth under clause 7 or clause 9 to disallow laws. One must bear in mind that clause 9, which empowers the Governor-General to disallow laws generally, is of the kind that was generally. in other constitutions, fallen into disuse. Also, we must bear in mind the fact that this legislation may operate for quite some time; that there may develop conventions whereby the Commonwealth will be precluded from intervening in Territory legislation. It is quite wrong for the Commonwealth to legislate in terms which do not specifically restrict the Legislative Assembly to the exercise of State powers; in other words, to give the Legislative Assembly power to impose duties on excise, for example, is to my mind an error and one that we could live to regret. 
If one wanted to take it to a ridiculous extent, it would even be possible that the Territory could raise its own army. If we bear in mind some of the sabre rattling that goes on in the neighbouring State of Queensland, and even to a rather lesser degree in my own State of Western Australia, we perhaps ought not to take that threat too lightly either. I would ask the Government to give earnest consideration to making it clear that clause 6 is meant to give no more than State-type legislative powers to the Legislative Assembly. I think we will live to regret it if amendments limiting the operating of clause 6 in that way are not introduced. 
With respect to the granting of executive power, we have chosen an exceedingly untidy way to go about it. I have considerable concern for the fear which is felt in the Northern Territory that the granting of a list of executive powers will give rise to what might be termed demarcation disputes over precisely where executive powers lie in any situation. I can see room for legal problems for the Territory Executive if we follow the course which the Government has indicated it will follow and regulate simply by setting out a specific list of functions. 
I was originally attracted to the proposition put forward by Ian Wilson that we amend clause 35 by putting the word 'not' so that the regulations would say which functions the Territory did not have executive authority for. However, I now think that if we followed that course the Commonwealth would have to indicate what are all its powers under section 6 1 of the Constitution and would have to be extremely careful to cover all areas of Federal authority. So I see the amendment as one which would cause more problems than it would solve. The objections to clauses 6 and 35 underline the unsatisfactory way in which this Bill has been prepared and the limited extent to which it has been discussed by people who are capable of making a sensible contribution to its form. The Government must undertake to re-examine the legislation in the next few months and to come back to us with better answers than it has come up with to date. 
I did not mention clause 75 because that is a clause which, after a lot of deliberation with the Government, we finally got into a form which is roughly acceptable to me and, I hope, to the Senate. The proposition that we can make regulations under clause 75 which can vary other Commonwealth law is one which is probably offensive to some honourable senators. However, this provision has now been made subject to a rigid time limit and cannot operate after 30 June 1979. Regulations can be made only with the consent of the Administrator of the Territory acting on the advice of the Territory Ministers. So there are safeguards applying to the way in which those regulations can be used. The fact that that provision has been included in the Bill again shows that inadequate attention has been given to the preparation of this legislation. It is there as a safety net and it is a safety net which in my view ought not to be required, and this simply underlines the proposition which I put previously. 
I am sorry that to some extent I have had to qualify the support that I have expressed for the Bill. It is fundamentally important that people all around Australia should have maximum control over their own affairs. I believe in the decentralisation of power and I think it is desirable that the relatively small population of the Territory should, to the maximum extent possible, run its own affairs without interference from Canberra. To that extent I welcome the Bill and support it wholeheartedly, although I regret that the Bill is not as good as it could have been. I conclude my speech by asking the Government to ensure that it gives the Bill close attention over the next few months. 
I had no intention of speaking on the first reading of this Bill but  Senator Walsh's  comments invite some response. The first response I make is that I am advised that  Mr Vines  is out of the country and, therefore, is not really in a position to respond to the challenge which has been issued by the honourable senator opposite. We are all used to the sorts of attacks that are made on people by  Senator Walsh.  Few of us now pay much heed to them. I think that he should wait until  Mr Vines  is in Australia before carrying on in the manner in which he has tonight. I found it rather offensive to listen to an exponent of cold economic logic, such as Sentor Walsh, who has so often lectured us on the logic of tariffs, the whole question of economic policy and how one must apply sense to these matters, play party politics on the question of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
I ask  Senator Walsh  whether he believes that payments which are made to workers, to executives or others, in kind rather than in money, should be exempt from income tax. Does he believe, for example, that company executives who get expensive seaside residences thrown in as part of their remuneration should escape taxation in that respect? Does he believe that there should be one law for those who receive their salaries in cash and a different law for those who receive their salaries in kind? It seems to me that that is the proposition  Senator Walsh  is putting forward. I would think that the workers of this country, whom I believe you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and  Senator Walsh  purport to represent, would have said that all men should be taxed equally and fairly whether they receive their salaries in cash or in kind. The real irony of the situation to which  Senator Walsh  referred is this: In the last month or two  Mr Peter  Cooke, the  Chairman  of the Trades and Labour Council in Western Australia-- 
I thank  Senator Walsh. Mr Peter  Cooke, the Secretary of the Trades and Labour Council in Western Australia, has gone around whipping up a great deal of emotion about the possibility that workers in the Pilbara will be taxed on the non-cash benefits that they receive as part of their remuneration. What a dreadful thing! What an anti-worker thing to happen! I think their logic is rather poor. Of course, the politics of the situation are quite obvious. I will be attending several mass meetings in the Pilbara this weekend, in company with  Mr Cotter,  organised by good old  Mr Peter  Cooke.  Mr Peter  Cooke will be attending. No doubt those workers will come along and ask why they should have to pay tax on the benefits that they receive from their employers. Before  Senator Walsh  leaves the chamber, let me tell him that the Taxation Office has advised me that no investigation into this matter was under way but because such a fuss has been made about it, it has no option but to put the matter under the microscope. In fact, thanks to  Mr Peter  Cooke and thanks to  Senator Walsh,  the workers of the Pilbara will now have their non-cash benefits subject to scrutiny. They can thank  Mr Peter  Cooke and  Senator Peter  Walsh if their tax burden is thus increased. 
There is a great amount of irony in the present situation because the majority of electors in the Pilbara- I am sure you will be interested in the Pilbara,  Mr Acting Deputy President-  are trade unionists. Those trade unionist electors have seen through the sham that is offered by people like  Senator Peter  Walsh and  Mr Peter  Cooke. They consistently return a Liberal State member of Parliament and they consistently vote for Liberal senators and for a Liberal member of the House of Representatives. They are now being taken for a glorious ride by  Senator Peter  Walsh and  Mr Peter  Cooke. As a result of their politicking in this field I can give them the assurance that the Commissioner of Taxation will be examining the position in the Pilbara. If the workers of the Pilbara have an increased tax imposed on them in the 1979-80 year then I think they can thank  Mr Peter  Cooke and  Senator Peter  Walsh for that impost. 
I believe that the benefits received by workers in the Pilbara or anywhere else- in the form of concessional rentals, the use of motor vehicles, entertainment allowances and so on- should be subject to assessment in the same way as the cash benefits which are received by workers in other occupations are assessed.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I would be very surprised if you did not agree with that principle. At the moment we have Labor politicians playing petty politics, whipping up emotions because in that area, which is an area of a substantial trade union majority, they cannot get the votes. So they are indulging in this little exercise, which I believe will be quite futile, to get votes. I say to the Senate that when I go up to the Pilbara next weekend I will speak as directly to those trade unionists as I am speaking to the Senate now. There is no reason for those trade unionists to get any exceptional treatment, any treatment over and above that afforded to any Australian citizen. I believe that the trade unionists in the Pilbara will accept that, as they have accepted the benefits of being represented by Liberals for many years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What VIP flights have been made from Perth to Canberra over the last two years on days within two clear days of the commencement of a parliamentary sitting week. 
On which of such flights have there been empty seats, and what were the number of seats in each case. 
This matter has been before the Senate on a number of occasions, as most speakers have reminded us. I think it would be fair to say that the Opposition members have brought it before us again today out of a sense of impatience about the apparent slow rate of progress towards achieving self-management for the Aborigines of Mornington Island and Aurukun. It also would be quite obvious, I think, that the impatience which is felt by the Opposition in this matter is shared by the people in those communities. I think that there is quite clear evidence that the people in those communities would support the direct action that is being sought by the Opposition in proposing for discussion this matter of public importance. What the Opposition is suggesting is that under the Constitutional powers which were obtained in 1967 there should be legislation by the Commonwealth to take over the land constituting the local government areas which formerly were reserves. The Opposition chides the Government for trying to work with the State Government of Queensland through the instrument of local government which is controlled by the State rather than taking that direct action. I think the point of view that the Opposition has advanced is quite understandable. My criticism would simply be that I believe that point of view underrates both the Constitutional complexities and the community problems that we face in this issue. 
Although the idea of a simple and quick solution is attractive I do not believe that such a solution exists. 1 certainly believe that, if the Commonwealth were to move into a total confrontation with the Queensland Government without first having bent its every effort to achieve a co-operative solution, there could be a very adverse effect within the Queensland community. Therefore I support the Government in making every effort to reach that compromise of working with the Queensland State Government. It is not really a compromise; I think it is an appropriate course of action. I think it is quite clear, however, that the Commonwealth accepts that, if it cannot achieve that sort of co-operative action in the ultimate it may have to take unilateral action. I am sure that the Government quite properly would wish to do that only if it is forced to take that action. 
What I point out to the Senate is the progress that has in fact been made over the months during which this issue has come before us. Before doing so, however, I would like to pick up one point out of a telegram quoted by  Senator Keeffe  because it contained at least one substantial inaccuracy. The telegram from  Mr Miller  suggested I think, an agreement between  Mr Joh  BjelkePetersen and  Mr Fraser  that administrators should be put into the local government area. 
I am very glad it does not say that because there is of course no Commonwealth agreement on that course of action. In fact, there is clear disagreement on that course of action. 
I will be very pleased to receive it. The matter first came before us when the people were seeking self-management and the Commonwealth undertook to try to achieve it. All honourable senators will recall that as a matter of urgency we passed legislation in this chamber to give the people the right of selfmanagement. All honourable senators will recall that, in line with the warnings that were then uttered by the Opposition, the Queensland Government promptly brought the reserves to an end. It took executive action which meant that the reserves no longer existed, and that meant, of course, that the action which the Commonwealth had taken had no effect at all. Following that action by the Queensland Government discussions were held in Canberra which gave rise to the April agreement which has already been referred to extensively in this debate. 
I remind the Senate that in the negotiations which took place in Canberra the Queensland Government moved a considerable distance towards the position that we were seeking. In particular, the agreement provided for the preservation of the existing reserve areas and their existing boundaries. That was a great advance on the previous situation whereby the reserves could simply be abolished by executive action. It provided that a local government council would be set up on each of the reserves- or what had been the reserves- to enable the councils to manage the area on behalf of the people. It was provided that there should be a co-ordinating and advisory committee to the council. If one remembers the statements which were being made by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and other Queensland State Ministers prior to those negotiations, it becomes apparent that the negotiations did bring the parties together and that the Queensland Government did move a long way towards the view that was being advanced by the Commonwealth Government. 
Having made that agreement, the Government of Queensland proceeded to pass an Act which put into legislative form the agreement that had been made. I want to refer to a couple of sections of that Queensland Act- Act No. 6 of 1978- which underline the very great advance which was made on behalf of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. For a start, in section 6 of the Act it is quite clear that the State Government accepts the obligation or has the legal obligation to grant a lease of the whole of the reserve areas to the councils. Let us contrast that with the situation pertaining to Aboriginal reserves in Queensland which, as I have already said, can be destroyed by executive act without reference to Parliament or to anybody else. So, for the first time in the history of Queensland, as I understand it, you have a situation where there is a legal obligation on government to preserve areas for Aboriginals. I refer to section 16 of the Act which limits the usual power of the Queensland Government simply to dissolve local government authorities and which requires consultation with the Commonwealth. Whilst we have a situation where now - 
No, the point is actually proven by the facts that have been discussed in this chamber today. The fact that that is a limitation on State power, we have been told, has been demonstrated today in the Supreme Court of Queensland where an interim injunction has been granted against the State Government. That is a very good demonstration of the fact that there is some meaningful protection contained in the Act which was passed by the Queensland Parliament. We have the local government areas. We have the legal obligation to create leases. So we have a situation where, provided local government can be established and the Aboriginals are able to control and manage that local government, we have achieved the general objective of our Government, which is to ensure that the Aboriginal people manage their own affairs. 
Let me refer to what the Commonwealth is doing in the present circumstances. I draw to the attention of the Senate a telex which was sent yesterday by  Mr Viner  to  Mr Hinze,  the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads. That telex was sent before the Queensland Government took action. I do not intend to read the telex because the time available to me is short, but it makes quite clear firstly that the Commonwealth was against the action, which was then proposed, to dissolve the councils, and sought the continuance of the councils and other action to enable the local government councils to proceed with their self-management. I have shown the telex to the spokesman for the Opposition and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The telex read as follows- 

Outward Telex 
To: The  Hon.  R. J. Hinze, MLA 
Minister Tor Local Government and Main Roads 
Queensland 
From: The  Hon.  R. I. Viner, MP Minister for Aboriginal Affairs Canberra 
I refer to our recent telephone conversations about the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island following your visit there with the Premier and  Mr Porter  last Friday. 
As I have indicated, I believe that it is absolutely vital that our two governments should make a further effort to ensure that the local government arrangements are given a chance to work at both communities. I believe that action to dissolve the councils and appoint an administrator would be precipitate and that it should still be possible to persuade the councils that self-management is possible under the local government arrangements if early action is taken to implement the decisions your government took last Monday about payments to the councils. 
Dissolving the councils now would undermine all our efforts to implement the legislation, and create major political problems for both governments. I believe it would further compound the difficulties of resolving the situation at the two communities satisfactorily. 
Might I remind you of the provision of section 16 of the Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act requiring consultation with me before the councils can be dissolved? I do not regard your intimation by telephone as fulfilling the statutory requirement for consultation, but would expect a formal communication in writing. 
The councils have asked that initial grants should be paid without further delay and I think that if this is done and if the co-ordinating and advisory committee visits the communities to help frame budgets and establish arrangements for employing staff, a sound basis for persuading the councils to rescind their decisions not to co-operate would have been established. 
The Commonwealth Government reviewed the situation yesterday, as I told you, and has suggested that it would be useful to involve officers of the Premier's Department and the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, as well as members of the co-ordinating and advisory committees in working out arrangements with the two councils and communities. It would also be useful to post the acting shire clerk to the communities for the time being. I agree that Police should be posted to the communities as soon as possible in consultation with the councils, which asked you to arrange this. 
I would be glad to have your comments on these proposals. 11.00 a.m., 15.8.78. 
-That telex demonstrates the attitude which has been adopted by the Commonwealth in the present situation. Quite clearly, the situation now is that the State Government has taken action. Of course we cannot discuss the likelihood of the legal proceedings which have been taken in the Supreme Court succeeding in the long term or not. The important thing is that the Commonwealth has proceeded to define its position with the State 
Government and to make it clear that it still wishes the State Government to act in accordance with the agreement and to enable the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to manage their own affairs. 
My understanding of the position of the Commonwealth Government is that it is seeking guarantees from the Queensland Government that if the shire councils have been dissolved there will be a commitment to a definite and early date for new shire council elections; that steps will be taken to grant the leases and to finalise those leases, that the provision of funds by Queensland, which is an essential part of the operation, will be made; that there will be an avoidance of evictions or dismissals of individual persons, which has been a matter of dispute; and that there will be an early reconvening of the coordinating and advisory committee to check on action taken under the legislation to date and to suggest lines along which further progress could be made. It is essential that the Commonwealth receive guarantees of this nature if we are to be confident in our own minds that there is to be proper self-management at these two communities. 
I appreciate the fact that the whole debate has been conducted by both Government and Opposition members in a way which I think makes it clear to the people of Queensland and to the Government of Queensland that this is a matter on which there is a very high degree of unanimity within the Federal Parliament. There are differences between us, in the sense that direct action in the way of resumption is wanted by the Opposition, but there is a unanimity on the theme that we want the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to have a genuine opportunity to manage their own affairs. The Government is approaching this matter in a way which tries to preserve the proper functions of State government in this area so that the whole thing can be done in a way which ensures co-operation rather than confrontation. 
Knowing by reputation and by limited experience the quite strong feeling amongst the electors of Queensland that they do not want undue interference from the people down south who are so anxious to reform them, I think it is very important that we should also have made it clear in this debate that we are proceeding in a way which takes into account the particular approaches of the Queensland Government and its desire to achieve self-management through the mechanism of local government and not through the mechanisms which we have adopted in the Northern Territory or in other States. 
There has been a genuine attempt on the pan of the Commonwealth to deal with this matter in a way which takes into account the wishes of the people of Queensland. Unless that is understood it will be very difficult for us, whether we adopt the course of the Government or the course which is advocated at the moment by the Opposition, to ensure that we do things which will not be harmful to the communal relations between Aboriginals and non-Aboriginals in Queensland. 
I ask Opposition senators when they are giving this matter further consideration to take into account the important question of ensuring that there is a general acceptance by the people of Queensland- the people with whom the Aboriginal people of Queensland have to live, mix and work- of the fact that we have some common purpose and that we are not just trying to start some sort of bitter argument and dispute.  I  am grateful to the Opposition for having brought this matter forward and for having given us an opportunity again to put some views publicly which one hopes will be taken into account by the Queensland Government as well as by the Commonwealth Government. 
I welcome what I regard as the quite generous attitude which is being adopted by the Opposition to this proposal. I think it is an extremely proper attitude. It seems to me an appropriate time to urge the Opposition and members of the minority groups to try to reach agreement. I think it is invidious to thrust upon the Government majority the role of determining what should be the membership of minority groups on Senate committees. My own view on the matter is fairly clear. There ought to be appropriate numerical representation. I would think, for example, that if the Australian Democrats were grouped with the sole independent senator probably, on a proportional basis, they would be entitled to one place on the legislative and general purpose standing committees. 
At the most two. Quite obviously it will be difficult to determine what is a fair representation and what is the appropriate committee. I think it would be to the advantage of the Senate if the Opposition, the independent and the minority group members could reach an amicable decision on appropriate representation. I think that in the absence of any such agreement, if this amendment is adopted, as it appears it will be, it will be difficult for the Government to impose its view on the Opposition and on the minority group senators. I simply urge it to approach the matter on a basis which takes into account the number of positions available on the different classes of committees and ensures that an appropriate proportional allowance is made. 
I move: 
That the item bc referred back to the Standing Orders Committee for reconsideration in conjunction with the 
Government decision on action which will be taken by the Government with regard to parliamentary committee reports. 
The report of the Standing Orders Committee makes it clear that the resolution of March 1973 which requested the Government to respond within three months has been almost totally honoured in the breach. In other words, although in 1973 the Senate recorded its view that the Government should respond to reports, we are advised by the Standing Orders Committee report that there has, in fact, been only one government response in accordance with that recommendation. In light of that, it seems most significant that, while the Standing Orders Committee was considering this matter further and adopting a recommendation which was meant, I am sure, to put a little pressure on the Government to respond to parliamentary committee reports, the Government itself was considering this matter and made on 26 May significant statement to which  Senator Durack  has referred. The fact is that if we are to get a suitable response to parliamentary committee reports it will be necessary for the Government to make a decision that that is to happen. Only in that way does it become programmed into Public Service procedure and when a committee report is presented to the Parliament wheels will begin to turn and we will get a response. As one who is an enthusiastic supporter of parliamentary committee activity, I must say that I regard the decision of the Government, as announced on 26 May 1978, as a most significant step forward. 
The Standing Orders Committee prepared its recommendation without knowledge of what the Government was doing, and the Government's decision was put down subsequently to the presentation of this report. It would be useful, in light of the decision taken by the Government, if the Committee were to have another look at the matter.  Senator Durack  has put before the Senate quite cogent reasons why, on occasions, more than three months will be required. The example that was bandied about between Senators Durack and Georges was no doubt the securities and exchange report, but another example is provided by the family law report, which took years to complete and required follow-up. 
In any event, the Government's decision is significant and should be considered by the Committee. It may well be that the Committee would wish to pursue the three month limit. It may also be that the Committee would recommend to the Senate that a six months period should be accepted. I urge honourable senators, in light of the fact that we have had a more significant breakthrough in this area, than must of us, in the early months of this year, would ever have expected, to take the trouble to have another look at the matter and see whether our recommendation should be altered. 
I welcome the indication from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Opposition is not opposing the motion. I agree with the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that this is a most significant proposal. I am a little more optimistic about it than is the Leader of the Opposition. I am very interested in the matter which he raised, namely, the far more radical proposal that we should follow the example of the Swedish Parliament. I have not learned a great deal since I came here, but I have learned that changing the way the Parliament does anything is extremely difficult. One of the things I enjoyed finding in the Crossman dairies was that when  Mr Crossman,  a Minister in a Labour Government, tried to improve some of the procedures of the House of Commons he ran into enormous difficulties. I think it is very difficult to make any substantial changes to the way this place operates. It is good that this proposal has a fairly firm basis in the eight years experience the Senate has had with legislative and general purpose standing committees. The proposal will not shock anybody or lead to a great rustling in the dovecotes or a reaction against it. 
I think that I can understand the Opposition having some reservations. I am a little surprised at the concern expressed by  Senator Wriedt  that legislation might get bogged down. I must commend the Opposition for its public spirited approach to this matter and its concern about the passage of the Government's legislation. I thought that Opposition senators would have been less concerned about that than Government senators. The reservation has been expressed to me by a number of Opposition senators that they are not here to do the Government's job. They have asked why they should be particularly interested in improving Government legislation. Again, bearing in mind our own record as an Opposition - 
Yes, I can understand that. I put to the Senate that a great deal can be gained by all of us if some of the more sensible work which is done in this place is done in the public arena rather than in our private committee rooms. I believe that the spectacle of members of Parliament working on legislation and achieving change will improve the standing of the Parliament. 
The Attorney-General, who is the Minister in charge of the chamber at the moment, has the distinction of being the only Minister who has allowed a Bill to go from this chamber to one of the legislative and general purpose standing committees for consideration when the Government had a majority here. The experience of the last eight years has been that oppositions have tended to force governments to refer legislation to committees. It is good that both sides of the chamber concede that that has generally been beneficial. Honourable senators will recall that the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill, to which  Senator Missen  referred, gave rise to a very substantial debate in the Committee of the Whole. There was a great deal of cross-fire because a number of Opposition members were supporting the Bill in the teeth of opposition be  Senator Wright  and a number of other Government senators.  Senator James 
McClelland made a contribution in defence of the proposal. In any event I think it was  Senator Durack  who, as the Minister in charge of the Bill, agreed to send it off to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I think that that is an interesting example of what we might hope to achieve. That debate was quite strenuous. We were really getting nowhere in the Committee of the Whole. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was able to consider the Bill in the quieter circumstances of a committee meeting. Honourable senators will recall that the Committee reported back with a unanimous recommendation for amendments. Although there was some delay-  Senator Missen  referred to this a little while ago- eventually the Government reintroduced the Bill. My recollection is that the recommendations of the Committee were accepted by the Government, lt is my view that in the committee atmosphere, when the difficulties of formal debate which occur in the chamber are removed and when the opportunity is afforded to analyse the contents of a Bill quietly, it often appears that the dogma about which we were arguing is quite irrelevant and the facts speak for themselves. 
I am a firm believer- I am very optimistic at the prospects- that we will achieve a sensible consideration of legislation which will in many cases result in the improvement of Government legislation. I think that the Opposition has nothing to lose by that. I think the Opposition gains by being associated with sensible parliamentary behaviour. The Government, for its part, gains if in its view and in the view of its own members the legislation is improved. I am an enthusiastic supporter of the recommendation that we adopt this sessional order. It will impose some additional workload on senators, but I hope that as compensation we will be able to drop some of the less sensible work that we do and perhaps even cut down on some of the time that we spend having relatively meaningless debates in this chamber. I hope that the Senate will support this experiment. 
It is worth noting that this is probably the first time in the history of the Federal Parliament that the House of Representatives is ahead of us in an area of parliamentary reform. The House of Representatives adopted a sessional order or its equivalent concerning legislative committees in May. In that sense the House of Representatives beat us to the punch. The Government has, I think, been considering Bills which will be sent to legislative committees in the House of Representatives. I believe that in the next period of sittings there is every possibility that the House of 
Representatives will be functioning with some experimental legislative committees. I do not resent that. I think it is desirable that the House of Representatives should participate in the sorts of changes that have been taking place in the Senate for the last eight years or so. I think this puts the Senate on its mettle to ensure that, having led for so many years, it is not now left behind. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations, without notice, on 25 May 1978: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations, follows the question asked by  Senator McLaren,  which, as I heard it, was seeking protection for local wine as against plum wine. In the light of the representations contained in the earlier question, is it still appropriate for the Government to be seeking greater entry into the Common Market on behalf of our primary producers when there is such an obvious desire on the part of primary producers of the Riverlands to be protected against any competition? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications may be of historic interest only because it relates to telephone services. I refer to reports of last July that Telecom planners are considering a scheme to give more country diallers the right to call the nearest town for no more than a 9c local charge even if the town is 100 kilometres away. Can the Minister say what progress, if any, has been made on plans to bring this about? 
I am not in a position to confirm or deny the matters which have been put before the Senate by  Senator Messner  in his question. I assume, bearing in mind his general record, that the matters he has put before us are correct. I will, of course, refer the question to my colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, and seek his reaction to the suggestion. 
I can inform the honourable senator that this is a matter which is under active consideration by the Government and that there has in fact been consultation of the sort to which she has referred. However, I will have to get a detailed answer from the Minister. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
175. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
-Senator Thomas had the commendable courtesy to let me know of his interest in the Mark report. I hope his example will be followed by others in this chamber. I think honourable senators will be aware that  Sir Robert  Mark, the former head of Scotland Yard, recommended that a new federal police force be created and that it should incorporate the existing Australian Capital Territory Police and the Commonwealth Police forces. The Commonwealth Government has made a decision and announced it. That decision is that it agrees in principle with the Mark report and that it will be forming a federal police force. It has commenced planning for appropriate legislation prior to the new federal police force being established. In the mean time the two separate forces will continue under the existing legislation. It is not possible for the Government to give a precise date for the establishment of the new force, as discussions with the States are still in progress and the necessary legislation is yet to be finalised for introduction to the Parliament. The Government's hope is that the legislation will be introduced at an early date and that the force will be commissioned next year. The procedures relating to the selection of a new commissioner will be dependent on the outcome of the discussions now taking place and the form which the legislation ultimately takes. Of course, this Parliament will determine the latter point. 

 - Senator Teague raises matters which of late have been the subject of great public debate, interest and concern. The matters that he raises, however, are not within my detailed knowledge. I will refer them to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and seek a reply for him. 
It is certainly not true that there is any attempt to purchase aeroplanes to indulge anybody's fantasies. As I understand the position, the desire to purchase aeroplanes is related to the need to transport people safely in this country. The original intention of the Government which was announced is presently being pursued. I am unable at this time to answer whether there has been any approach to Ansett or TAA but I shall seek an answer and let the honourable senator know. 
For the information of honourable senators I present: 
Copies of minutes from the Chief Electoral Officer to the then Minister for Administrative 
Services in respect of the preliminary analyses for Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania; 
Copy of a memorandum sent to the Australian Electoral Officer for Tasmania dated 29 July 1977; 
Copy of compliments slips sent to the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland dated 12 August 1977 and to the Australian Electoral Officer for South Australia dated 17 August 1977; and 
Copy of a memorandum from the Chief Australian Electoral Officer to the Australian Electoral Officers in all States dated 24 March 1977. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
In the House of Representatives on 23 August 1978 the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  asked whether, in addition to the analyses of the electoral distribution proposals in respect of the six States which had already been tabled, copies of the communications between the Electoral Office and the then Minister for Administrative Services and the Electoral Office and the States in respect of those analyses also could be tabled. The covering minutes are not part of the analyses but the Government is happy to make them available. I have been informed that in respect of New South Wales and Victoria the analyses were sent to the Minister with no covering note. 
As for the communications with the State branches of the Electoral Office, I am informed that the sending of the analyses to them was regarded as a matter of routine dispatch under compliments slips. Only in the case of Tasmania was there a covering memorandum which dealt with an additional subject matter. Covering compliments slips are on file only in the case of Queensland and South Australia. Photocopies of these have been obtained from the States and presented to the Senate. I will have copies of all papers provided to honourable senators. The method of circulation of the analyses underlines that it was done as part of the normal administrative processes of the Electoral Office. 
In this context I believe it is also relevant to table a copy of a memorandum dated 24 March 1977 from the Chief Australian Electoral Officer to the Australian Electoral Officers in all States. This memorandum, which was an exhibit at the Royal Commission, outlines the procedure instituted by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer of providing to his State offices papers produced by the Research, Legislation and Projects Section of the Central Office of the Australian Electoral Office. It was in accordance with this procedureand this was recognised by the Royal Commission- that the analyses were sent to the States. For the record I also retable a copy of the Victorian analyses, one page of statistics from Attachment 'A' of which was inadvertently omitted from the copy tabled on 22 August. The copies provided to honourable senators, however, were complete. 

 Senator Button raised with the previous Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Durack,  the question of guidelines governing the distribution of analyses in the future.  Senator Durack  indicated to the Senate his personal concern about the question and his intention to give it serious consideration and to make a recommendation to the Government in relation to it. I wish to indicate to the Senate that I agree with  Senator Durack  that the matter requires serious consideration. I have not yet had an opportunity to consider it in detail but I will do so as soon as possible. When I have had an opportunity to consider the matter fully, I will make a further statement to the Senate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question, according to information supplied by the British Phosphate Commissioners, is as follows: 
A$20.58 per tonne 
A$1 1.13 per tonne. 
(a) 1,036,350 tonnes in 1976-77; (b) 285,806 tonnes in 1976-77. 
Lady Small Haven Home for the Aged (Question No. 414) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Guidelines for the proposed State Relativity Reviews to be conducted by the Commonwealth Grants Commission are contained in section 5 of the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Act 1978 which was passed by the Parliament on 9 June 1978. In presenting the Bill, the Treasurer outlined the details  (Hansard,  4 May 1978, pages 1806-8). 
The possible need for additional staff resources for the Commonwealth Grants Commission is currently being investigated with a view to the early submission of appropriate recommendations to the Public Service Board. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Algeria- property ownership is subject to host country approval pending allocation of land in a diplomatic enclave for construction. 
Peoples Republic of China- property currently allocated on a reciprocal basis. 
Poland- property is normally allocated on a reciprocal basis, as a rule on a 99 year lease. 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam- property is allocated by the host government for lease. 
USSR- Soviet practice is to lease (but not sell) property to foreign diplomatic missions for up to 99 years. 
Peoples Republic of China- Canberra; PolandCanberra, Sydney; Socialist Republic of VietnamCanberra; USSR- Canberra, Sydney. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Column 1 of the following schedule indicates those countries where Australia can purchase accommodation at its overseas posts. Columns 2 and 3 indicate where purchase has been undertaken. 
Current policy is that the Commonwealth should seek to attain a high proportion of ownership of property overseas where appropriate by construction. The level of owned accommodation at each post depends upon the adequacy of existing accommodation, security of tenure, economic feasibility and availability of purchase proposals, political stability and policy of host country and legal and social factors. 
The percentage of property owned overseas by the Commonwealth has increased from approximately 1 7 per cent in 1 974 to approximately 30 per cent in June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3). The numbers, names, positions occupied and home bases of the Ministerial and electorate staff of the Ministers mentioned, as at 1 June 1978, are set out in the table below which has been prepared by the Department of Administrative Services: 
MINISTER FOR TRADE AND RESOURCES 
The Rt Hon. J. D. Anthony, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 4-  Mr B.  Virtue, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr P.  Flanagan, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 1 -Miss A. P. Daly, Canberra. 
Press Secretary-  Mr R.  B. Dodd, Sydney. 
Personal Secretary-  Mrs J.  H. Wein (a), Murwillumbah. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss K. A. Bourke, Canberra. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss S. L. Wurfel, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Vacant. 
Secretary/Typist- Miss C. M. Stronach, Canberra. 
Electorate Assistant-  Ms W.  Tuck (b), Murwillumbah. 
a ) Electorate Secretary. 

 Ms Tuck is paid as Typist Grade 2. 
Total Number of Positions = 10. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 9. 
TREASURER 
The  Hon.  John Howard, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Consultant to the Treasurer (Part-time position)Professor J. Hewson, Sydney. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr G.  R. Hodgkinson, Sydney. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-  Mr J.  A. Hanks, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 1  -Mr J.  A. Robertson, Canberra. 
Press Secretary- Vacant. 
Personal Secretary-  Mrs A.  May (a), Sydney. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss B. A. Williams, Sydney. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Miss S. Dal Santo, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Miss L. H. Brewer, Sydney. 
Secretary /Typist- Miss J. P. Harwood, Sydney. 
Electorate Assistant-  Mrs P.  M. Housden, Sydney. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 11. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 10. 
MINISTER FOR EDUCATION 

 Senator the Hon. J. L. Carrick 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr W.  L. Daniels, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-Dr T. A. Metherell, Sydney. 
Press Secretary- Vacant. 
Personal Secretary- Miss H. M. Hughan, Sydney. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss J. Billington, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1 -  Mrs B.  M. Carroll, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1 -Vacant. 
Secretary /Typist (a)-  Mrs A.  N. Dean, Sydney. 
Electorate Assistant-  Mr D.  J. Booth, Sydney. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 9. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 7. 
MINISTER FOR HEALTH 
The  Hon.  Ralph J. Hunt, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr P.  Knox, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-  Mr F.  W. Jennings, Canberra. 
Personal Secretary- Miss M. Girle, Canberra. 
Assistant Private Secretary-  Mr R.  L. Lawrence, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Miss A. Lonergan, Canberra. 
Secretary/Typist (a)-  Mrs S.  A. Watts, Sydney. 
Electorate Assistant-  Mrs C.  T. Adamek, Canberra. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 7. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 7. 
MINISTER FOR PRIMARY INDUSTRY 
The Rt Hon. Ian Sinclair, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr I.  E. Worrall, Sydney. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-  Mr S.  J. Carney, Canberra. 
Press Secretary-  Mr N.  E. McDonald, Sydney. 
Personal Secretary- Miss D. A. Wilson, Sydney. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss S. E. Hodgkinson, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1  -Mrs M.  Hamilton, Sydney. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade1 -Miss C. T. Dunn, Canberra. 
Secretary/Typist (a)- Miss B. Shelton, Sydney. 
Electorate Assistant- Miss S. Whittaker, Sydney. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 9. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 9. 
MINISTER FOR IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC AFFAIRS 
The  Hon.  M. J. R. MacKellar, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr N.  A. McCann, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-Mrs M. M. J. Weatherstone, Canberra. 
Personal Secretary- Miss L. Melnikoff, Sydney. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss H. Ovens (a), Sydney. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Miss P. A. Farmer, Canberra. 
Secretary/Typist-  Mrs V.  P. Lewis, Canberra. 
Electorate Assistant- Miss W. Moore, Sydney. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 7. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 7. 
MINISTER FOR HOME AFFAIRS 
The  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott, Q.C., M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-  Mr G.  D. Holmes, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-Miss C. E. Wilson, Sydney. 
Personal Secretary- Miss J. B. Allen, Sydney. 
Assistant Private Secretary-  Mrs I.  Hendry, Sydney. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1 -Miss A. Cafeill, Canberra. 
Secretary/Typist (a)-  Mrs P.  Baker, Sydney. 
Electorate Assistant- Vacant. 
a ) Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 7. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 6. 
MINISTER FOR BUSINESS AND CONSUMER AFFAIRS 
The  Hon.  Wal Fife, M.P. 
Position, Occupant and Home Base: 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 3-Mr W. R. Clark, Canberra. 
Ministerial Officer, Grade 2-  Mr S.  J. Whyment, Canberra. 
Personal Secretary- Miss K. A. Lewis, Canberra. 
Assistant Private Secretary- Miss E. I. Strath, Canberra. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 1- Miss L. M. Lowes, Canberra. 
Secretary /Typist (a)-  Mrs J.  Nugent, Albury. 
Electorate Assistant- Miss M. Smith, Canberra. 
Electorate Secretary. 
Total Number of Positions = 7. 
Positions Filled at 1.6.78 = 7. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) A review is currently being undertaken of all aspects of the Commonwealth Electoral Electoral Act 1 9 1 8.I can give no indication as yet as to when the results of that review are likely to come forward for Government consideration. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth and State Ministers have not conferred during the past twelve months on the release of Sydney Harbour foreshore land for inclusion in the Sydney Harbour National Park concept however further discussions are expected to take place in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) Section 42 (5) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 gives Aboriginal people the right to choose whether or not they enrol as electors. This right is one which is to be exercised freely and indeed it is an offence against the electoral law to interfere or attempt to interfere with the free exercise by an Aboriginal of his or her choice whether or not to enrol. 
Against this background, the Australian Electoral Office in consultation with other appropriate authorities, is developing programs of electoral education aimed at ensuring that Aboriginal people are better equipped to meet their electoral responsibilities should they choose to enrol. This approach was adopted in connection with the 1977 Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections and the last Federal general election. In more detail this approach included: 
special instructions were issued to Presiding Officers to ensure that assistance to non-literate voters was properly given. These instructions covered the marking of ballot papers, the use of How-to- Vote cards and the secrecy of the vote in respect of non-literate voters; 
Poll Clerks fluent in Aboriginal languages were employed at specified polling places; 
posters aimed at assisting those Aboriginal voters having some degree of literacy to fill in their ballot papers were printed in Aboriginal languages for display at polling places at which Aboriginal electors were expected to vote and copies were distributed to Aboriginal communities. Additionally, similar information was prepared in leaflet form for general distribution. Both the posters and the leaflets were made available to officers of the Aboriginal Adult Education Section of the Department of Education in the Northern Territory to assist them in the electoral education of Aboriginals; and 
a cassette tape, a 16mm film and video tape were made on electoral procedures. These were distributed to radio and television stations and to Aboriginal communities. 
In early 1979 the Australian Electoral Office expects to begin a continuing program of electoral education for Aboriginal people living in non-urban areas. The aim is to establish this program first in Western Australia and South Australia, extending later to the Northern Territory and Queensland. A sum of $ 100,000 has been provided in the 1 978-79 budget to fund the initial stage of this program. 
Expenditure details for Aboriginal electoral education for the financial years 1975-76. 1976-77 and 1977-78 are not available in the form requested. That expenditure was part of the Australian Electoral Office's overall initiative in the areas of information and electoral education for which the following financial provisions were made in the three years. 
and (4) The Australian Electoral Office does not have this information. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and will get a reply for him. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Contractual and legal payments (e.g. electricity, rates ) generally have the highest priority followed by emergency and unforeseen repairs (e.g. storm damage, equipment breakdown). Preventative maintenance to avoid equipment breakdown (e.g. airconditioning plant servicing) and maintenance of a cosmetic nature such as painting are carried out as funds permit. Government owned property is given priority over leased accommodation wherever possible. 
1971. 
I think by answering this question I am likely to incur the displeasure of my colleague the Minister for Science who, I understand, has made a specialty of feral cats. For the question to be addressed to me seems a little unreal. This is a matter on which I do not have any information. I will refer it to my colleague and seek a reply for  Senator Bonner. 
I have made some inquiries about the matters which have been raised by  Senator Baume.  I am advised that there are 24 people in the Cheque Section of the Commonwealth Police Force. I am further advised that there are about 460 people awaiting processing before charges can be laid against them. I am also advised that there are 17,318 individual cheques which are awaiting action by the Cheque Section of the Commonwealth Police. 
I have made some inquiries of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on this matter. I am advised that there are no reliable statistics on the number of people permanently living in caravans in Australia. Apparently there has been some Press speculation recently about a number but that is believed to be based just on estimates, not on official statistics. In many areas there are restrictions on people living permanently in caravan parks. But of course the growth of mining developments in remote areas of Australia has contributed considerably to many workers living semi-permanently in caravan parks. A rough estimate of the number of caravans currently used as permanent dwellings is between 100,000 and 150,000. The range of the figures shows that it certainly has all the marks of a rough estimate. About 75 per cent of those are believed to be in caravan parks. I will have to make further inquiries of the Minister whether any Government action is being taken in this matter and I will let the honourable senator know the response. 
I am unable to inform the honourable senator whether a court in a prosecution of the sort he has mentioned has the power to suspend a licence in the same way as a traffic court does for a traffic offence. I can tell him, however, that the Secretary to the Department of Transport has that power, which to date does not appear to have been exercised in this case. I shall make inquiries about the particular questions that have been raised by the honourable senator and let him have a further reply. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport for a reply. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for reply. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
a ) and ( b ) Imports of books and other printed matter in the last five years have been as follows: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Trans-Australia Airlines has no plans to withdraw any port of call on the Mt Isa to Townsville route. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Thirty-seven vessels. 
One vessel  Song Be 12  has been returned to Vietnam. 
3 ) Twenty-nine vessels are currently in Darwin harbour. 
and (5) Basic reports on these vessels by my Department indicate that they are generally in poor condition. I understand that 12 vessels are afloat while the remaining vessels have sunk or are visible only at low tide. With reference to the question of ownership the Vietnamese Government has advised that all vessels in Vietnam of sufficient size to undertake the voyage to Australia are the property of the Government of Vietnam or Government owned co-operatives. The Commonwealth Government has sought documentation of this claim. 
The piece of evidence read out by the Leader of the Opposition is a piece of evidence that I think I read, but I have no precise recollection of the words. I accept that they are the words which were used on 7 June. I have not had an opportunity to investigate those allegations, although the Leader of the Opposition may remember that there was debate in this chamber about the redistributions in Western Australia. I remember that debate particularly because that country of course, is a part of the country with which I am most familiar. 
Members of the Opposition did make some complaints in this chamber, as I recall, that the seat of Kalgoorlie had been altered to the Australian Labor Party's detriment by the inclusion of certain parts of the northern wheat belt. As I recall, the response that was given to that question was that this was part of the process which had been demanded by the Opposition for many years, namely a process of equalisation of the size of electorates. The seat of Kalgoorlie is now within 5 per cent or 6 per cent of quota, a matter which I would have thought would have gladdened the hearts of those who favour one vote one value. 
If there are more serious matters than that implicit in the quotation which has been put before the Senate by the Leader of the Opposition I will, of course, have them checked. I can say in general with regard to the Royal Commission report that it is my view that there are a number of matters in it which require detailed consideration and analysis. 
One other matter that has been raised by the Opposition, by  Senator Button  and, I think, by  Senator Gietzelt-  I referred to this matter in the tabling statement that I made on Tuesdayrelates to future practices in respect of the preparation of electoral analyses and when they are prepared what ought to be done with them. I would say to the Opposition that matters such as that are matters which require serious consideration. They need government consideration; they need reporting to this chamber and no doubt debate in due course. 
by leave- I suppose that until a few weeks ago I would have happily supported  Senator Tate  and recounted my experiences as a lawyer and the difficulties I suffered in not have available copies of Commonwealth statutes. I find myself now in a position in which I am partly responsible for this state of affairs. 
My admission seems to have enlivened the Senate. I confess to the Senate that my responsibility in this matter is for the Australian Government Publishing Service. I was interested to see that, on page 1 8 of the report of the Joint Committee on Publications, the evidence of the Australian Government Publishing Service is quoted. It appears that the Service expressed dissatisfaction with the state of affairs and was seeking a remedy for it. Therefore, I feel confident that the AGPS will welcome the fact that this report has been promulgated. It may even regard the generous period of 12 months which the Committee has given it to come forward with some suggestions for a remedy as being unnecessarily long. 
It is quite clear that the Government welcomes this sort of activity by parliamentary committees. I think it has already been referred to tonight that the Government has committed itself to responding to reports such as this in a formal way in the Parliament within a period of six months. I think that is a substantial step forward for the committee system. It does mean that I, and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  who I think is the other Minister involved in the matter which is the subject of this report, will have to come back to the Senate as a matter of course and respond to the various recommendations which the Committee has made. As both of us are ex-practising solicitors or barristers, or both, we have experienced the sorts of difficulties which have been referred to by  Senator Tate,  and I would hope that that means the matter is going to get early and sympathetic consideration. 
May I also say that it is good to see a number of the members of the Publications Committee present in the chamber for the purpose of this debate. I see  Senator Missen,  who has spoken, and  Senator Georges  who is also a member of the Committee. 
It may give you something more useful to do than whipping for the Opposition, senator. I am delighted that you are involving yourself in some constructive activity: I also note that  Mr Wharton,  who presumably claims some right of paternity for this report, is also witnessing the debate. I do think it is important that these reports on which people do a lot of work should be taken seriously by the Senate when they are considered because unless that happens it seems to me that it is difficult to expect the Government to take them as seriously as the committees would like. 
Unlike any previous government, this Government has undertaken that it will formally respond in the Parliament not later than six months after reports of this sort are put down, and that is something which is unprecedented. Your rather ungenerous and almost churlish response to that I think is really no contribution to this debate or to our getting more value out of parliamentary committees. I think the matters which the Committee has raised are matters which are important. I certainly undertake that the Department for which I am responsible will give the matter careful consideration. I hope that we will be able to meet some of the difficulties which the Committee has raised. 
This is another report which touches on my area of responsibility, as the Department of Administrative Services has responsibility for the Wiltona Hostel.  Senator Austin  Lewis has taken the Senate very fully through the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, and I do not think any honourable senator could be left in any doubt as to what were the facts found by the Committee and what were the recommendations of the Committee. I am grateful for  Senator Mulvihill  's intervention, which explains the circumstances of the rebuilding in 1965. 
With this report, as with all other reports, there will be an official considered Government response to the recommendations of the Committee. In some ways this report is quite cheering. Whilst criticising the fact that Wiltona was rebuilt in 1965, the Committee goes on to point out that the procedures which now govern the use of Commonwealth property would ensure that there was no repetition of such a decision. Although the Committee believes that something which was done in 1965 should not have been done, it believes that subsequent changes to procedures will not permit the mistake to recur. It is also of interest to the refugee situation in Western Australia that the Committee has seen fit to say that the temporary use of Wiltona for refugees would be OK provided precautions are taken with respect to fire. 
This is a matter which has come before me and which I have had to consider. I must say that the report of the Senate Committee has been part of the material which has been put before me for consideration. Once again it is an illustration of the extreme usefulness of this son of parliamentary activity. I thank the Committee for its work and look forward to responding in a more formal manner to its recommendations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill is to provide for direct matching grants, with the States, for a range of home care services, and for the salaries of approved welfare officers employed at or in association with senior citizens ' centres. The Act provides for continuation of subsidy, on a $2 for $1 basis, for the capital cost of senior citizens' centres. Thus, the Bill gives effect to policies announced at the most recent Premiers Conference which recognise that the State Governments are in the best position to assess the requirements for home care services and to determine their priorities accordingly. 
As announced at the Premiers Conference, the new subsidy arrangements are to have effect on and from 1 July 1978 in respect of home care services, and for welfare officer salaries for a salary period commencing on or after 1 July 1978. The States Grants (Home Care) Act was introduced in 1 969 on the basis of a recommendation made at the 1968 Health Ministers Conference. The Act broadly provides three forms of assistance: 
Firstly for home care service schemes which provide housekeeping and other domestic assistance to aged people in their own homes; secondly, for the building and equipping of senior citizens' centres; and thirdly, for the employment of welfare officers employed by, or in association with, senior citizens' centres. 
A later amendment to the Act increased the subsidy from one-half to two-thirds of expenditure through the States. The importance of locally based home care and welfare officer services for aged and infirm people is fully recognised by the Government. Indeed, provision is made for significant overall increases in assistance for domiciliary services in this year's Budget. For the States grants home care program overall, there is an increase of 12.28 per cent in the estimates for this financial year, over the expenditure for last financial year. For the home care services component of the program, there has been an 83.5 per cent increase in estimated expenditure for this year over that for the financial year 1975-76, when the Government took office. Details of Commonwealth expenditure for the past three years is set out in the following table: 
The increased funds made available for the program, together with the changed subsidy basis has enabled new welfare officer positions and home care services to be approved for the first time since October 1975. 1 was recently able to announce that Commonwealth support could be extended to an additional 79 welfare officers and 22 home care services. Overall the Commonwealth will subsidise 191 welfare officer positions and 271 home care services. It will also be possible to consider some additional applications for home care services. This particular legislation is but one avenue of Commonwealth financial assistance for those requiring support services to continue to live independently in their own homes. Other important services include mealsonwheels, subsidised under separate legislation also administered by the Department of Social Security, expenditure on which has increased by nearly 30 per cent in the last three years, to an estimated $2. 3m this financial year, and domiciliary nursing care programs, which involved Commonwealth expenditure last financial year of $ 10.7m. The estimate for the current financial year is $ 12.1m. It has been suggested in some quarters that the Government is suddenly withdrawing from funding home care services, causing large numbers of aged and infirm people to look to nursing homes and other institutions for help. The fact is that the Commonwealth will continue to match every dollar allocated by the States for approved welfare officer and home care services. 
As I have already indicated, the new arrangements for the program were announced at the time of the Premiers Conference in June, and of course are fully in line with the Government's policy of federalism, which recognises that State and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally based programs of this nature. Provided that State governments act responsibly within the framework of the federalism policy, there is no reason to believe that there will be any reduction in the level of welfare officer and home care services. Indeed, it could be anticipated that the States will allot a high priority to these services, which make a contribution to maintaining people in their own homes. The main function of a welfare officer is to provide a link between aged persons living in their own homes and domiciliary and other supportive welfare services. 
The activities and responsibilities of welfare officers vary according to local needs and priorities, but in general include determination of the needs of the aged population and the development of services and facilities to meet these needs; liaison with committees of senior citizens ' centres and service clubs for the purpose of establishing or extending the centres' services and facilities; supervision of the services provided; fostering co-operation and liaison among various welfare activities for aged persons and encouraging interest in these activities; and providing an education program which will encourage senior citizens' centres to promote purposeful activities. Home care services which can be subsidised under the legislation include home visiting, laundry and shopping services, home handyman and related home maintenance schemes, housekeeper and other services which complement health or welfare programs designed to enhance the independence of aged and infirm people living at home. 
I am sure that all honourable senators will recognise the importance of every encouragement being given to the States to maintain, and as necessary expand, their commitment to the home care program which will encourage independent living of aged and infirm people for as long as possible, and help to reduce the need for people to seek institutional care. As I have shown, it is simply not true that the Commonwealth has in some way absolved itself of responsibility in this field. Rather, the Government is seeking to build on the present partnership with State and local governments in the context of increased overall funding for these services. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill is to extend for a further period of 12 months, those provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act which are due to expire on 13 December 1978. This is to allow for full consultation with the State governments on future arrangements to meet the needs of homeless people in the light of the experience with the program to date. As honourable senators will be aware, the Homeless Persons Assistance Act was introduced in December 1974 on the basis of a report by a working party on homeless men and women. The program has been kept under close review since then, and has been the subject of specific evaluation by the Department of Social Security including careful scrutiny by the homeless persons advisory committees established in each State. A report on the process of evaluation, entitled 'A Place of Dignity' was tabled by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on 9 June 1 978. 
The working party on homeless men and women recommended amongst other things, that capital grants totalling up to $5m a year should be made available over a three-year period to voluntary agencies and local statutory authorities for approved projects- such as night shelters, reception and assessment centres, hostels, flats, day centres, special clinics and detoxification units- in order to upgrade and replace existing inadequate accommodation and to build new facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. 
The Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations, which are defined as non-profit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts, towards the full cost of purchasing, constructing or renting buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. It also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are provided, at a rate of 75c per day, and subsidy of 25c for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. 
For the information of honourable senator's capital grants totalling $9.8m have been approved under the Act to date. Of this amount $3. 5m had actually been expended by 30 June 1978, $3. 6m has been allocated for expenditure in 1 978-79 and the remaining $2. 7m will be carried forward to 1979-80. Expenditure on rental and salary subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1978 totalled $646,665. The appropriation for these subsidies in 1978-79 is $285,000. Expenditure under the National Welfare Fund on accommodation and meal subsidies for the period from 13 December 1974 to 30 June 1978 amounted to $2.6m. Estimated expenditure on these subsidies in 1978-79 is $lm. As at 30 June 1978, financial support was being given towards the running costs of 106 homeless persons' centres, with a total bed capacity of 3,410. Subsidy made available in 1977-78 represents 990,759 people assisted. In addition 847,774 meals were served to non-resident homeless people. Salary subsidies were paid for 37 social welfare workers. 
The Government has no doubt about the importance of this program or its effectiveness in helping to upgrade the standard of facilities for homeless men and women in many areas of Australia. Complementary to the assistance that has been provided under this program, 76 women 's refuges have been approved for funding, at an estimated cost of some $3m this financial year, through the Community Health Program. Because of the involvement of the State governments in many aspects of services for homeless people, the Government has decided that it is appropriate at this stage to extend the Act for a further year, to allow full consultations with the States on future arrangements. This is in line with the spirit of the report of the working party on homeless men and women, which recognised the need for consultation concerning the continued development of service by all levels of government and voluntary agencies to meet the needs of homeless people. 
As honourable senators will recall, the Act was extended for a further period of one year from December last, so as to allow time for further development and review. The Government believes that the program is now sufficiently well established to warrant discussion with State governments on their views about the sharing of responsibilities in this area. 
I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Scheme for a further year until 31 December 1979, but at a rate of subsidy reduced from $60 per tonne of nitrogen content to $40 per tonne of such content. Following consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation in Report No. 58 dated 5 September 1975, the Government decided that the subsidy on this fertiliser was to be phased out. The measures effected by the Bill represent a further step in the implementation of this decision. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  outlined in the Budget Speech various Government initiatives in support of rural industry, including the provision of an amount of $ 10m for continuation of this subsidy for a further year. The level of subsidy to apply after 3 1 December 1979 will be considered by the Government in the light of economic circumstances prevailing nearer to that time. The Bill proposes that from 1 January 1979 to 31 December 1979 subsidy will be payable at the reduced rate in respect of locally produced nitrogenous fertilisers which are sold for use in Australia as fertiliser and also in respect of imported nitrogenous fertilisers which are either used in Australia as a fertiliser by the importer or are sold by the importer for such use in Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 

 -Mr President, I will. 
I certainly have no objection to that course of action being followed. I thought that this was probably the case. I intended allowing the amendment to be moved in the hope that the result would be the same. I think that what has been suggested by  Senator Walsh  is the proper course to follow. He should proceed to move his amendment. 
The Bill. 

 - Senator Walsh indicated earlier in the debate that he wished to take the clauses in a certain order. I have no objection to that course being followed.  Senator Walsh  might like to indicate to you the order in which he would like the clauses to be taken. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) The Queen Elizabeth II Silver Jubilee Trust for Young Australians invited applications for grants towards the cost of projects to be undertaken by individuals and organisations. Applications from organisations closed on 30 June 1978, but the closing date for applications from individuals was extended until 18 July. These applications are being examined by the Regional Grants Committee in each State and the Australian Capital Territory. 
Each Committee will make its recommendations to the national headquarters of the Trust which expects to announce the successful applications in late September. 
As the Trust is an independent body, my Department has no information regarding the organisations or individuals applying for assistance. 
His Royal Highness Prince Charles presented special awards made by the Trust in November 1977. Details of these which were the first grants to be made are as follows: 
The honourable senator asked a number of questions which he prefaced by referring to a report which I have not seen about the reasons for keeping multiple receipt books. The reports which I have seen are to the effect that receipt books were kept by each of the branches in the particular electorate and there was no reference to the Commonwealth Electoral Act in any of that material. After Question Time,  Senator Button  might like to direct my attention more specifically to the report to which he has referred. As far as the specific questions which he has raised are concerned, it appears to me that, since limitations are contained in the Electoral Act with respect to expenditure which bear little or no relation to the amount which is spent on elections in Australia, that is a matter which may well require examination.  His  reference to the need to find a way around the restrictions of the Act would probably strike a responsive cord in the heart of any practising politician in Australia. Those restrictions do not inhibit the amount spent on elections. That is a matter of fact and a matter of common knowledge to everybody in this chamber. A review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act is proceeding. My understanding is that it is hoped that the review will be completed at a departmental level late in this session and it is hoped that it will be possible to put some material before the Parliament and the public which will enable some discussion of the Act to take place. My personal wish would be that that discussion should take place as far away from an election as possible so that we can get as dispassionate an examination of the Act as possible. If there is any other aspect of the honourable senator's question that I have overlooked I am sorry, but I think my remarks deal with the main matters that he raised. 
I have no knowledge of whether that is being considered at the departmental level but I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
I must say that the same question has crossed my mind when I have been signing these forms for the members of my staff and they have pointed vaguely in the direction of the middle of the form. I must say that I have never had the wit to put that question to the responsible Minister and that the opportunity to do so has now passed. However, I will examine the matter raised by the honourable senator to see whether we can add a couple of lines to the form to make quite clear where the staff member and the employer are to sign. 
-Senator MacGibbon raises a matter which is of considerable interest in both Queensland and Western Australia where, as he indicates, a person wishing to travel to anywhere else in Australia has to travel a long distance and, therefore, fares are extremely high. I understand that the initiative for what has been done by the airline companies in conducting the experiment with standby fares arose out of consideration of the Government's domestic air transport policy review which, among its other suggestions, recommended to the airlines greater innovation in the types of air fares which should be offered by domestic operators. The airlines responded to that by announcing this experiment over a period of two months. They are conducting the experiment over the southern routes between Sydney and Melbourne, Melbourne and Launceston, and Melbourne and Hobart. No doubt that has caused some disappointment to both Queensland and Western Australia. The idea is that at the end of the trial the airlines will evaluate the experiment and see whether it can be .either continued or extended. 
In answer to the honourable senator's question as to why the longer routes were not chosen for the experiment, my understanding is that the routes chosen have some advantages for this sort of exercise. Between Sydney and Melbourne there are high density and high frequency flights, so that a standby system means that somebody who takes a standby ticket on a flight and who does not get on that flight is not left lamenting until the next day to arrive at his destination. Hopefully that is the result. Although the routes between Melbourne and Hobart and Melbourne and Launceston are not as frequently covered as is the route between Sydney and Melbourne, a large proportion of the traffic on those routes is tourist traffic, which lends itself to a standby operation. On routes which have a high percentage of business traffic it is. important that people get to their destination at a precise time. I think there were quite logical reasons for the airlines' choice of routes. My hope as a Western Australian and, no doubt, the honourable senator's hope as a Queenslander, is that the experiment will succeed and that similar benefits will be extended to the outlying States. 

 - Senator Townley correctly stated that I was in Hobart last Friday. Unfortunately during that visit I did not gather the information that he now requires from me. Therefore I will make an inquiry of the Minister for Transport or the appropriate Minister and let him have a reply. 
-On 14 September  Senator Robertson  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Transport, a question without notice, concerning the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Standard Gauge Railway. The Minister for Transport has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It has been found feasible to use some second hand 40 kilometre per metre and 47 kilometre per metre rail made available from rail relaying work on the Trans Australian Railway for construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway north of Marla without reducing the effectiveness of this rail link. 
The location and scope of terminal facilities , in Alice Springs is the subject of examination having regard to the overall town planning requirements of Alice Springs. There has been some delay in this plan being made available but work is proceeding. 
There is no  validity in the suggestion by  Senator Robertson  that the Government is not meeting its commitment to provide an appropriate standard gauge rail link to Alice Springs. 
-On 14 September 1978,  Senator Ryan  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, what mechanism existed within the Australian Broadcasting Corporation to examine staff complaints. The question arose from a press report that an ABC Television journalist had complained that derogatory and racist comments had been made by a senior officer. 
The mechanism existing within the ABC to examine such complaints is contained in ABC Staff Rule No. 15, which states that: 
If an officer or employee considers he has grounds of complaint arising out of an official instuction, or from any other cause, he may appeal, in regard thereto, to the Branch Manager through his immediate superior officer, who shall forward an appeal forthwith to the Branch Manager, but he shall nevertheless, as far as possible, carry out any instruction given him until it is countermanded by competent authority. 
If an officer or employee, having appealed to the Branch Manager, in pursuance of this rule, is dissatisfied with the decision, the Branch Manager shall, on request, forward the appeal to the General Manager, who, if the appeal is not allowed, shall transmit it to the Commission for determination. 
I am advised that a television public affairs reporter in Melbourne has lodged a complaint with the General Manager of the ABC,  Mr T.  S. Duckmanton, under staff rule No. 15, and that the General Manager has initiated an urgent investigation. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs, entitled 'The Cost of Housing', together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  relating to the report. 
in reply- I thank honourable senators for their words on the Bill although, needless to say, I thank the Government senators rather more than the Opposition senators.  Senator Walsh,  who led for the Opposition, took us through a rather circuitous bypath of family trusts and other matters which were challenged by honourable senators on this side as being somewhat irrelevant. I do not intend to deal with the matters that he raised except to say that I suspect that many of the people who are interested in the passage of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill 1978 are not the people who will be frightened off by the sorts of comments  Senator Walsh  was making. I think that most primary producers are familiar with the concept of family partnerships, family companies, and, in some cases, family trusts which are used to arrange their affairs in a businesslike manner. I do not think that to those people those arrangements are the bogy-man that they are to other sections of the community. 
I was a little disappointed at the attack that  Senator Walsh  made on the decision of the Government to continue the bounty, albeit at a reduced rate. I have always understood  Senator 
Walsh to be a firm supporter of the Industries Assistance Commission. By that I do not mean that he necessarily supports every recommendation of the Commission but I understand him to be in favour of the general line which the Commission adopts in these matters. I thought that he might have drawn attention to the fact that the Government, in carrying on the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy through this Bill, to some extent is going along with the recommendation of the Commission but is not going as far as the Commission requested. Had the Government followed the recommendation of the IAC which was made in the report of 5 September 1975, this subsidy would have been phased out for 1979. The Government in fact has gone beyond what was recommended by the IAC so far as assistance is concerned. It has continued assistance at the rate of $40 per tonne and in that sense it is looking very sympathetically at the requirements of rural industry. 
The contrast which  Senator Walsh  drew between the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy and the superphosphate bounty must have been more evident to the Industries Assistance Commission than to  Senator Walsh.  What the Government has done with respect to superphosphate is rooted in a report of the IAC of 30 October 1976 in which the Commission recommended that the superphosphate bounty be paid for a period of five years commencing 1 July 1977.I think it was a pity, therefore, that  Senator Walsh  approached this matter not on the basis of analysing the problem, as was done by  Senator Thomas,  but on the basis of mounting a personal attack on the Government and on the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  and a number of other Ministers were farmers. I suggest to  Senator Walsh  that if in future we debate Bills of this nature again, as appears likely, he might be of more assistance to all of us if he examines those two contrasting reports and explains to us the basis on which he disagrees with the distinction which has been drawn. But in any event - 
Now it turns out that even the IAC is crooked; it is not only the Government. 
I suggest that that outburst demonstrates that the debate on this Bill is at a somewhat lower level than I think the Australian electorate, and in particular the farming community, would like. 
I noted  Senator Colston's  comments about the concern he feels at loading costs onto the rural sector in these difficult times. I think it is proper to draw his attention to the fact, as was pointed out by  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Thomas,  that one of the key objectives of this Government has been to control the problem of rising costs which have beset rural industry in particular. I remind the honourable senator of the figures produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which compared on-farm costs with the general rises in costs which were experienced in the Australian community. I can only quote the figures in the broad. I think they demonstrated roughly a two-for-one ratio between rises in onfarm costs and off-farm general costs. In 1 974 the figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics concerning on-farm costs went up by 30 per cent- a dramatic increase in the cost of production of farmers. It is to that problem that the Government has directed its primary attention. 
I thank honourable senators from the Government side who expressed their own misgivings about the reduction in support for rural industry and for the stress that they have laid on the importance for primary producers of the Government's bringing inflation under control. I think all Government members would share the concern that has been expressed by honourable senators on this side of the House. Indeed the same concern was expressed by  Senator Colston.  I think those honourable senators accept, as the Government accepts, that the priority which has been set is correct and is particularly correct for the sort of industries which are interested in this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
I am disappointed that  Senator McLaren  did not make a longer speech because he probably would have enjoyed telling the Senate of all the times he crossed the floor against his party when it was in government and he thought it was acting against the interests of South Australia. I am sure that that would have involved both a great deal of time and a great deal of interest. The fact is that  Senator McLaren  would vote for black being white if that was the decision of Caucus. I do not sneer at that position. It is a perfectly respectable political stance to take. But it is slightly farcical for honourable senators opposite to be taunting honourable senators on this side for being loyal to Government decisions when they themselves are all pledged to absolute loyalty to a Caucus system. I simply make that comment because it always strikes me as a very odd sort of debating point for a Labor senator to make. 
Both  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Thomas  made quite clear in their speeches that they proposed to support this legislation, and they explained why. They referred to the general problem of the control of inflation and so on and at the same time made clear their concern about the reduced level of support for rural industries. That seems to me to be a perfectly responsible and respectable position. If they vote for the measure, as I expect they will, that will be perfectly consistent with the remarks that they made in this chamber. 
The Government cannot, of course, support the request embodied in  Senator Walsh's  amendment. The fact of the matter is that this is a Bill which extends a benefit; it is not a Bill which removes one. The benefit, in fact, ceases - 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-The benefit under the existing legislation is to cease at the end of December. This measure provides for a benefit to be paid next year, albeit at a lower rate than was paid last year. Its passage is essential to payment of the subsidy being made in 1979. 1 have no doubt that, on that basis, the legislation will be passed. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) I am aware of the statement in the  Courier Mail  of 1 8 July 1978. Whilst I am deeply concerned with the recent spate of accidents involving loss of life I must emphasise that there is no evidence to suggest that the overall rate of accidents has changed in pattern from the relatively stable accident rate of recent years. Having said that I see no grounds for complacency and the honourable senator is assured that my Department is conducting thorough and painstaking investigations into all recent accidents to determine causal factors. Each investigation will then be analysed to determine what operational requirements, if any, should be introduced, amended or re-iterated as necessary. 
At no time and with no organisation have appeals to Government been rejected out of hand as inferred in the  Courier Mail  article. On the contrary I and my Department are always willing to receive and consider any constructive criticism aimed at furthering the progress of aviation in Australia. The procedures by which such suggestions and criticisms can be adequately considered are well known to the aviation industry, and organisations and individuals are encouraged to use these procedures. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
None. 
to (6) See answer to ( 1 ). 
I have seen only public reports about the involvement of, I think, the Channel 7 group in developing a Teletext proposal. I have no other information on the matter but I will seek it from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  There are some matters of fact, as against matters of opinion, which I think could usefully be put forward in answer to this question. Officers of the Special Broadcasting Service, in common with other public sector employees, are free to seek public office on behalf of political parties if they wish to do so. But this Service applies a policy consistent with that applying to the Public Service generally which requires candidates to resign from their positions prior to an election. The advice I have received from the department is that James Kaldis, who is an Australian Labor Party candidate for the New South Wales Legislative Council, and who, until recently, has been responsible for presentation of programs on radio station 2EA, has resigned from that Service with effect from 1 7 September 1 978. So it is quite clear that he will not have any special access to any section of the media for the purpose of the campaign. On the general question of impartiality, I am advised that the Special Broadcasting Service operates under guidelines which emphasise that the station should avoid political partisanship and that wherever matters of political sensitivity are reported or discussed broadcasters must seek to ensure that the presentation is balanced. 
My natural sense of selfpreservation leads me to direct that question to the Minister whom I represent in this place. I merely say that, in light of the statements that  Senator Bonner  and other Queensland senators have made in this place about the value of Queenslanders as against people from the rest of Australia, the three Queenslanders picked in the team are worth nine players from any other State. 
I am not aware that the Commonwealth Minister for Transport has not approved funds which have been offered by the South Australian Government to continue work on the Stuart Highway. I will take up the matter with the Minister. I understand that the Minister has had various applications before him for a review of the Commonwealth program but these have not had any success to date. I will raise with the Minister the proposition that was referred to by the honourable senator. 
-Senator Mulvihill raised a series of matters in the adjournment debate on 24 August. I sought information from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on the points which he raised. To take the initial point that he has mentioned today, I have the figures relating to the area in Alaska and the area in the Northern Territory devoted to parks. I will make those figures available to him in detail later. I merely make the comment now that existing parks in Alaska cover 0.8 per cent of the area of that State and existing parks in the Northern Territory cover 3.8 per cent of the total area. However, there is a very big discrepancy in terms of proposed parklands, which is the point raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  It is proposed in Alaska that an additional 1 1.2 per cent of the area of that State be brought under parkland as against an additional one per cent of land in the Northern Territory. In regard to the second point which he raised, as to the proposals that are currently before the Government, I am not aware of any infringement of the original area as defined by  Mr Justice  Fox. I will have that point checked and will certainly let the honourable senator know whether my impression is incorrect. I will also let him have the other material made available by the Minister in response to the very many points he made on the adjournment. 

 - Senator Colston raised two matters which are the concern of my Department. The first was the question of charges for car hire services. He raised various matters which may be troubling just him or perhaps also some other honourable senators. With respect to car hire services, my office certainly follows the practice of checking the forms which are sent out and on at least two occasions has found charges which are in my name and which it subsequently has been agreed should not be in my name, either because I have not been in the city concerned or because it has been discovered that the item has been wrongly booked to me. My personal experience is that this has been quite useful, notwithstanding the difficulties  Senator Colston  outlined. However, I will take note of the points he has raised, refer them to my Department and see whether some further refinement is possible. In general I approve of there being some form of check on the use of public facilities by members of parliament so that we can be sure that taxpayers' money is not being wasted or abused. I am sure that  Senator Colston  would not disagree with that principle. 
On the second matter- that of telephone answering equipment- I regret that, notwithstanding that it is three months since the Remuneration Tribunal reported, I have not yet as 
Minister specified a type of equipment which can be installed. The Senate will appreciate that this matter has come under my jurisdiction only recently, but I have had discussions with officers of my Department and the current reason for delay is that there is an enormous difference in price between the various forms of answering equipment which are available. I have asked for more detailed information on these different types and it is my intention, which I have indicated to my Department, once I have a more full brief on what sort of equipment is available to have some discussions with both members of the Opposition and Government members with a view to getting some opinions before I make a final decision. 
It is also in my mind that it might be useful to hold up the matter for, say, another month and to install perhaps half a dozen answering units in the homes of different senators and members with a view to getting some confirmation that the units selected are satisfactory before we go ahead and buy 150 of them, or whatever number might be required. I appreciate that senators and members would like to see this matter dealt with without delay, but there has been some experience of getting equipment which senators and members have not found satisfactory, and I would like to avoid a large expenditure of public money on equipment which is found to be unsuitable. I hope that  Senator Colston  and other honourable senators will bear with me in this matter. My objective is to get at the most reasonable price possible a service which is thought to be satisfactory by those who wish to use it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have no information on the matter raised by the honourable senator. I will seek a reply immediately from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and try to let the honourable senator have it today. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The price paid for the off-shore animal quarantine station site is $ 103,500. 
Australian award rates will be paid to all directly engaged labour. As the Government wishes to provide maximum employment opportunities for the local community, contracts for the supply of services will also be negotiated wherever practicable with the Cocos Co-operative Society which is to be formed by the working population to operate the copra plantation and also undertake other commercial activities on the Islands. The monies received by the Cooperative for labour provided under such contracts may be expected at least to equal the amounts that would be payable if the labour involved were directly employed. Subject to certain safeguards, as yet to be determined, the distribution of the Co-operative's revenue to its members, in the form of both wages and dividends, will be for it to determine. 
I am aware that the New South Wales Government amended its Workers Compensation Act in 1 977 to exclude liability for sporting accidents and that it is a matter about which there was some publicity. I am advised that there has been advertising of a sports insurance scheme in New South Wales, and I am further advised that there does not appear to be any legislative basis for that scheme. However, I am not in a position to say whether that means there is not a scheme or there is a scheme. It may be that some sort of scheme has been put forward by the Government of New South Wales without any legislative basis and that it is still being put into operation. I will refer the question of misleading advertising to the appropriate Minister for examination and report back to the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator raises some very interesting matters in his question. As the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, unfortunately I am not in a position to say that I will instigate the inquiry that he has requested. However, I certainly will refer the matters that he has raised to the Minister for Transport and ask him to examine the propositions which have been put in that question by the honourable senator and seek a considered reply. 
It was a little difficult to hear some of  Senator Davidson's  question because of the insistent demands by members of the Opposition that the Federal Government should hand over more money. That was reminiscent of the government by cheque book that was practised for three years in this country with disastrous results.  Senator Davidson  firstly asked whether there had been any formal offer to the South Australian Government to return the railways to that State. I think the best answer I can give is to quote what the Minister for Transport said a couple of days ago in the speech to which  Senator Davidson  referred. The Minister for Transport said: 
Indeed I would be happy to offer the railways systems back to South Australia and Tasmania, unless they are prepared to let us get on with the job of fixing them up. In making the offer, I am quite sure they won 't take me up on it. But if these railway systems - 
I do not think that there is any new line being taken by the Government in this matter. One of the problems is that there is a great deal of political activity about railway lines and the South Australian Government, having entered into an agreement which makes the State railways the responsibility of the Commonwealth, is, I understand, indulging in some public activity about how these railway lines ought to be managed, whether they ought to be opened or closed, and so on. My understanding is that the Minister for Transport does not intend to have any closures without an adequate period of notice to users and without the fullest and most careful examination and consultation with regard to the arrangements that might be made. I will put the detailed matters which have been raised by  Senator Bishop  before the Minister for Transport and seek a reply from him. 

 - Senator Knight has indicated that a great complex of people is involved in the matter that he has raised. My responsibility in this matter is the Commonwealth Police. I simply say at this stage that I appreciate the concern which has been expressed for the welfare of the Commonwealth Police both by  Senator Knight  in the view that he has put forward and by  Senator Cavanagh,  who notwithstanding that he put forward a different point of view, expressed the same concern for the welfare of the officers concerned. I am sure that the Commonwealth police officers will appreciate the sentiments that have been expressed. 
I do not wish to give what might be regarded as any sort of definitive reply to the matters which have been raised by  Senator Knight  and, to some extent, opposed by  Senator Cavanagh.  On the other hand, I do not wish to end my speech on this matter in a way which precludes the matter being disposed of. I think the whole question needs to be examined. It is obviously unsatisfactory from the point of view of the officers concerned that the matter has gone on for some years.  Mr President,  I am grateful for the attention you have given to it recently. Rather than see the matter closed I shall seek leave to continue my remarks with a view to coming back with a definitive reply to the matters which have been raised by  Senator Knight.  That would be more helpful than simply closing the debate and passing the motion. After I seek leave  Senator Knight  might subsequently seek leave to make some comment, notwithstanding the adjournment of the debate. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 
Leave granted. 

 Senator KNIGHT (Australian Capital Territory)-  Senator Cavanagh  made the point that he had only just received a copy of the report. It made the point that there would be only two boxes placed back up on Camp Hill in the most unobtrusive position. 
I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  's criticism of people having to parade past guards at Parliament House. I think that has become necessary, but regrettably so. The sooner we can make the guarding, surveillance and security provisions in this place less obtrusive the better I think it will be for all concerned. I do not feel that the security provisions that we have are necessarily desirable in our Parliament House, but I know that most others disagree with that. I had taken into account the points raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  It seemed to me that in the circumstances it was desirable to press ahead and to try to get at least some improvement in conditions for the Commonwealth police in the wider context of their improved amenities in Parliament House. It was for that reason, partly out of frustration concerning my ability to penetrate the decision making process on what seemed to me to be this very simple matter which came out of the hearings of Estimates committees, that I gave notice of the motion I moved tonight. I wanted at least to try to keep the matter moving. I knew that the  President  and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives were sympathetic to the idea. We do not disagree on the points raised by  Senator Cavanagh  but he will understand that my purpose in pursuing the guard boxes issue was to try to take at least one step forward in improving the amenities available to Commonwealth police. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Fire Board for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I support  Senator McAuliffe  because he is not even going to get an answer from me. I will refer the matters he has raised to the Minister for Transport and seek an answer for him. 
-With respect to the latter part of the question, I can only say that it sounds highly unlikely. However, I will refer the question to the Minister and seek a reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The full text of the statement in the  Sun Herald  of 20 August 1 978 is as follows: 
Cynics suggest domestic airlines have introduced the new standby fares to torpedo moves for cheaper air fares. According to some reports from Europe the standby fares scheme is not working there because many travellers have found ways of ensuring seats by taking out full fare tickets and then cancelling. ' 
The standby fares have been implemented for a trial period and their continuation, and extension to other routes, is dependent upon the outcome of the trial. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The subject of the Proserpine Aerodrome landing fee was one of many points raised during the course of earlier discussions in connection with the provision of new facilities at the aerodrome, which extended over a protracted period of time prior to its introduction in October, 1 977. 
The formal application by the Proserpine Council for approval of the passenger fee was not received by the Department of Transport until after the new facilities were opened to the public. Consequently, the Department did not formally approve the fee before the new facilities opened. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Drainage improvements at an estimated cost  or  $390,000 are proposed in the near future. Also the Government has authorised the planning of a new terminal building and associated works. Firm estimates of cost are not available for this project, but it is expected it could involve expenditure of several million dollars. The project would therefore require the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee. 
Yes'. 
The investigation of this proposal has not been carried to the extent necessary to determine estimates of cost. 
The viability of an airport in this area was considered in 1972 by a joint Commonwealth/State/City of Brisbane Advisory Committee when assessing the future airport requirements for the Brisbane area, and again recently by the Department of Transport. 
The basis of  Mr Calvert's  representations was that as the Gold Coast has gained a reputation nationally and internationally as the 'Tourist Capital of Australia' and is aiming to be the 'Convention Capital of Australia', and with the further development of Brisbane suburbia towards the Gold Coast, the most logical and economical location for an international airport is between the Gold Coast and Brisbane. 

 Mr Calvert has been advised that for the foreseeable future there is no possibility of an international airport being situated between the Gold Coast and Brisbane. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Prime Minister announced in Parliament on 23 February 1977 that  Mr Harry  M. Miller had agreed to serve in an honorary capacity as  Chairman  of a Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation to plan, arrange and coordinate special events to commemorate the Queen 's Silver Jubilee. The formal authority was dated 2 1 April 1 977. 
The Organisation was provided with office space in Westfield Towers, 100 William Street, Sydney, and with normal office facilities. Administrative costs of $338,040, including $ 1 60,306 of advertising, were incurred. In addition the expenditure of $137,862 was involved for salaries, overtime and travel of staff provided for the work of the Silver Jubilee Organisation. 
The staff comprised: 1 Executive Director. 1 Director of Information. 1 Administrative Assistant. 1 Project Officer. 2 Steno-secretaries Grade 2. 2 Typists Grade 1 . 1 Clerical Assistant Grade 1 . 
These personnel were engaged for varying periods of time. 
The bulk of  Mr Miller's  responsibilities in connection with his appointment as  Chairman  of the Silver Jubilee Organisation have been concluded. However, there is a number of minor administrative matters concerning the winding up of the Organisation which are still being attended to, including post-production work on a 30 minute colour documentary film on the Royal Silver Jubilee Exhibition train. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Royal Silver Jubilee Exhibition train was specially fitted out by the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales to meet specifications of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. The Organisation has paid to the Commission, the sum of $250,000 in respect of the fitting out costs and running costs. Other amounts totalling $146,841 have been paid to the Queensland Railways, Victorian Railways, Australian National Railways and Western Australian Government Railways in respect of running costs incurred on those rail systems. 
Although as a Western Australian I travel on aircraft more than most other honourable senators I am not aware that the price of alcohol on aircraft has been increased. Perhaps that is a tribute to my clean living. I am interested to hear that there has been a movement in wine prices in sympathy with the change in the prices of spirits following the Budget, and I will refer that matter to my colleague the Minister for Transport. However, I must say to the Senate that I do not believe that he is responsible for setting liquor prices on aircraft, although it may be a matter in which he has some interest. 
I am aware that people in remote areas feel that one of the major burdens that they carry is the additional costs that they suffer in telephoning government departments, not only in capital cities but also often in their own local centres. I know that this matter has received a lot of attention from Telecom Australia and is one which frequently has been brought to the attention of the Government. I will refer the matter raised by the honourable senator to  Mr Staley  and ask him to seek the views of Telecom on that proposal. 

 - Senator Bonner raises a matter which is important and which I think should receive sympathetic consideration. I think there is growing awareness of the need to ensure that handicapped people have access to public facilities generally. My own experience is that the telephones are often not suitable for use by handicapped people. I shall refer the matter to the Minister with the suggestion that he urge Telecom Australia to take action on it. 
This is a matter on which I do not have detailed knowledge, but I understand that Commonwealth Police certainly do have jurisdiction in the areas that  Senator Teague  has mentioned. It was not my understanding, however, that that jurisdiction was exclusive. I will have to check that point and take it up again with the honourable senator. 
A few minutes ago  Senator Teague  asked me a question about the position of Commonwealth police and State police with respect to State railway systems which are owned by the Commonwealth. I am now able to confirm that the position is as I thought it was, namely, that Commonwealth police may enforce all Commonwealth and State-made laws in Commonwealth places. State police also can enforce Commonwealth made laws anywhere in their States, including Commonwealth places.  Senator Teague  would probably know that the Mark report addressed itself to the problem of competing jurisdictions and that report is at present under study by the Government. No doubt legislation on that will be coming forward if not this year then early next year. 
I wish to take a few minutes of the Senate 's time simply to comment on some matters which were raised earlier this evening by  Senator Walsh  in a speech which was of a type not often heard in this chamber. I am pleased to say that it was of a type not often heard in this chamber. It was the sort of speech which I think the  Bulletin  characterises - 

 - Mr President, the simple reason why I wish to say something tonight is that the speech to which I have referred cast aspersions upon a series of people and I would like to have something in the  Hansard  record with respect to those aspersions. I do not wish to make a very long speech but as I have said - 

 -Mr President, as I made - 
Before I was interrupted on a number of occasions by points of order, I was trying to explain that the simple reason why I want something to be put on the record tonight is that an attack has been made on a number of people and I would simply like something to be on the daily record of this place in response to that attack. The nature of the attack can best be gauged by the wide range of people it covered. I think it started on  Mr Lynch;  and then it moved to  Mr Crichton-Browne,  to the prosecutor in a court case, to the police who were involved in the case and to  Sir Charles  Court. In fact the range of people attacked in itself says something about the nature of the attack. I do not think I need to discuss in any detail the role of the prosecutor in the prosecution of  Mr Crichton-Browne,  the role of the police or the role of  Sir Charles  Court. I do not think any matters raised require any comment. 
In respect of  Mr Lynch,  of course, this is just one of a series of attacks which has been going for some time. I would simply like to put on the record of the Senate that  Mr Lynch  's affairs were investigated very thoroughly last year and were subjected to independent examination by  Mr Stephen  Charles, Q.C., who gave an opinion about  Mr Lynch  's affairs which is well known to this Parliament and to the public namely, that  Mr Lynch  was guilty of neither illegality nor impropriety. With respect to  Mr Crichton-Browne,  who was subjected to prosecution, I think the simplest point that can be made is that on my understanding of the case  Mr Crichton-Browne  admitted the basic facts which were raised by the prosecution and made no attempt to hide them; both before going into court and in court he denied that he had done anything wrong; and he was duly acquitted by the court. Those are the simple facts of that matter. 
The last thing I wanted to put on the record in this place is simply this: I think that, if one is looking for an explanation of why this sort of attack is made in this place by  Senator Walsh,  one should look at the state of the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia. It is represented by four senators and it has been represented by one member out of a possible ten in the House of Representatives over the last two parliaments. I would simply like to say to members of the Opposition that I believe the sort of speech which was made by  Senator Walsh  tonight is not the sort of speech which the people of 
Australia wish to hear from their representatives. I would suggest that one of the reasons that the Labor Party in Western Australia is in the pitiable state that it is in at the moment is that it is not getting on with the job on matters that are of interest to the people of Australia but is engaging in the sort of exercise we have heard tonight. My confident prediciton would be that the Labor Party will stay in the wilderness in Western Australia, both in the State Parliament and federally, if it continues to give the sort of representation which  Senator Walsh  put forward tonight. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Annex 14 to the Convention of International Civil Aviation specifies, in regard to the marking of objects: 
Recommendation- When mobile objects are marked by colour, a single conspicuous colour, preferably yellow for service vehicles and red for emergency vehicles should be used. ' 
Lime yellow is not the internationally recognised emergency colour. Therefore the Department of Transport's new fire tenders will remain painted red. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) I am aware that a private businessman did have plans to fly a Nomad aircraft from Australia to the South Pole. 
It is not correct to say that the proposed flight was cancelled by Department of Transport as no formal approach had, in fact, been made. Nevertheless there is a number of operational factors which militate against the conduct of such a flight and approval would not be given. 
Montreal Olympic Games: Support by Qantas (Question No. 694)  Senator Puplick  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What financial or other support did Qantas give to the Australian Olympic Federation or to any individual athletes or officials in connection with the costs of Australia's participation in the 1976 Olympic Games in Montreal. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Qantas carried two officials of the Advance Party of the Australian Olympic Games Team as official guests on its inaugural service to Vancouver on 13 June 1976. 
During June/July 1976 Qantas also carried ten officials of the Australian Olympic Team to Vancouver under a commercial agreement concluded with the Australian Olympics Federation in exchange for appropriate publicity promotion for Qantas. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (5) Within the Township of Murray Bridge (defined as the local government area of the Corporation of Murray Bridge) the Commonwealth owns a total of 1.1837 hectares of land. No rates are paid by the Commonwealth, but the ex-gratia payment made in lieu of rates in respect of each block of land for 1977-78 is shown in the schedule following. (2), (3), (4) and (5) As shown in following schedule. 
I fear to tread in the tangled web of providing transport for Tasmania. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport for a careful and expert reply. 
The question raises matters of detail which are certainly not known to me. I will refer them to my colleague, the Minister for Transport, and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
Again, I will have to refer the question to the Minister I represent for a reply. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report entitled 'National Communications Satellite system' together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There are no lists of persons entitled to travel on the airline credit cards issued to senators and members. Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1978/9 prescribes the air travel entitlements of senators and members and their families and nominees for which travel warrants and TAA and Ansett credit cards may be used. A list of the nominees of senators and members was made available by my Department to these two airlines only. That list has now been withdrawn. 
I have some recollection of this matter being raised before and in particular, I can recollect an inquiry by my colleague,  Senator Young,  about the position at Adelaide Airport. My recollection is that it was not possible to provide a booth at that particular airport because of space limitations, but that a telephone and a sign had been provided. I understand that in Darwin in fact the car fleet has been taken over by the Territory departments, that we now operate only one vehicle and have only one parttime driver, but I will have to check that. I also understand that our responsibility in that field has been somewhat reduced. At any event, at the moment my understanding is that there is no booth of the sort that has been requested. There is a direct line to the car pool but that is at present out of order, which is not very helpful to  Senator Robertson.  However, I will make more detailed inquiries of my Department and give the honourable senator further information about the matter. 
I am told by my colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, that he is aware of the reports to which  Senator Rocher  referred in his question-that there are improved prospects for property values in the housing market in Western Australia. I am told that the Minister also is aware that there is some unused capacity in the Western Australian housing industry. The Minister welcomes this reported upsurge in confidence in the State 's housing sales market and the strengthening of the market is, of course, consistent with the Government's moves in the Budget to boost the availability of housing finance through the savings banks. It does appear that it is a very good time for home buyers in Western Australia seeking houses on the current market. The Minister no doubt will wish to consider the other matter raised by the honourable senator, namely, whether a further statement on housing prospects would assist the industry in Western Australia, and I will seek a response from the Minister on that point. 
My understanding is that the figures are not yet available to enable me to give a firm reply to that question. My understanding is that the probability is that there will be an additional seat for Western Australia but it will be some months before the information is known. When that information is known, the processes for a redistribution will be set in train. 

 - Senator Bishop raises a matter about which he, of course, has a good deal of knowledge since I think he piloted through this chamber two Bills which established both the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. He has had a long-standing interest in this matter. Those Bills, of course, introduced a different basis of financing and put certain obligations on the commissions as against obligations on the Government. Again,  Senator Bishop  knows more about that than I do. At the same time the Government maintains some responsibility in the area of charging and has, under the relevant legislation, some powers which are also related to its having obligations if it seeks to exercise those powers. I will, however, refer the representations which have been received by  Senator Bishop  from the union to my colleague and ask him to examine them as  Senator Bishop  has requested. 
I will draw that matter to the attention of the Minister for Transport. He may be aware of the name of the airline concerned; I am not. No doubt the Minister can inquire of  Senator Sibraa  if he wants further information. 
-During Question Time  Senator Gietzelt  raised a question about whether population change would require a redistribution and I think that he referred specifically to Western Australia. I am able to confirm that my recollection is correct and that, under the Representation Act, it will be some months before the Chief Australian Electoral Officer is required on the basis of the latest available population statistics to make a determination of the entitlement of each State for members in the House of Representatives. On the figures which are most recently available the position is, as I indicated, that the only likely change is in Western Australia which would have the addition of one seat and that it is unlikely that there would be a change in any other State. That matter will be determined in January or February of next year. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a report on the standardisation of fire hose couplings prepared by the Commonwealth Fire Board. On 3 January 1978 the Prime Minister wrote to State Premiers attaching a copy of the Board's report for information. I understand that there has been a varied response. Some States have indicated that they are committed to a coupling different from that recommended by the Commonwealth Fire Board. Other States have shown some support for the Board's findings. 
The Commonwealth's position on this matter is that, since the provision of fire services in the States is a State responsibility, whatever action might follow the Board's recommendations is a matter for the States and their own fire authorities to determine. It would not be appropriate for the Commonwealth to become financially involved. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The statement that 'the increasing amount of information coming from the scientific investigation of the effects of radiation on the human body which shows fairly conclusively that the dose of radiation that may produce cancer is less than half the amount allowed in industry in Australia' is not correct. 
Australian radiation protection standards, as set by the National Health and Medical Research Council are essentially identical to those adopted internationally. International standards are set at a level such that the risks to radiation workers are small compared with other occupational risks. Personal monitoring of a large section of Australian radiation workers over many years shows that doses received by them are, in general, only a small fraction of the set standards. 
In recent years there have been a number of speculative and generally inconclusive papers appearing in the literature which suggest that the risks for radiation induced cancer may be higher than conventional estimates. These small scale studies are often valuable in that they point to areas where more detailed studies need to be carried out, but do not in themselves provide a case for revising radiation protection standards. 
The problem is that the risk associated with low level exposure to radiation is very small, and large scale studies, involving large numbers of radiation workers are therefore required in order to reach firm and reliable conclusions. For this reason a major international study is being set up, under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, to collect and collate world wide data. 
Australia will be a participant in this study through the Australian Radiation Laboratory, and data relating to Aus tralian radiation workers (medical, dental, mining, industrial, scientific) will be included. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The International Symposium on Small Business is a conference which brings together persons with interest in small business. Participants include representatives of trade and business associations and of the small business community, academics, experts in management and other disciplines and government officials. 
The 1980 Symposium would be the first to be held in Australia and would follow Symposia previously held in Washington, Tokyo, Hawaii and Seoul, and being planned for California and Berlin. 
Interest was expressed in holding a future Symposium on Small Business in Australia and the Premier of Victoria indicated his government's willingness to act as host in 1 980. At the 1 977 Symposium held in Seoul, Australia was chosen with Melbourne as the venue. Subsequently, the Victorian Government sought the support of the Commonwealth Government and other States have been invited to cooperate. 
The Commonwealth Government welcomes the Symposium, and a senior officer of the Department of Industry and Commerce is a member of the planning committee which is meeting on a regular basis. 
A request from the organisers for Commonwealth financial support for the Symposium is presently under consideration. 
For the first two speakers in the adjournment debate I prepared copious notes for a reply. 
However, after a debate of an hour and a half, I am far too tired to deliver them and I will refer the various speeches to the responsible Ministers. In one case it is me. I will respond to  Senator Colston  privately and he can table the document in the Senate if he wishes it to be part of the record. I have no further comment to make. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.3 a.m. (Friday) until Tuesday, 10 October at 2.30 p.m. 
The matter raised by  Senator Thomas  excites a lot of interest in Western Australia in particular. It is true that the relatively low flagfall and then the per kilometre charge mean that long distance flights in Australia are extremely expensive when compared with short distance flights. 
I will refer the suggestion that the flagfall might be increased and the kilometre amount decreased to my colleague the Minister for Transport. No doubt he will receive representations to the contrary from people such as  Senator Grimes. 
In common with other honourable senators, I am sure, I have had a number of complaints of the type to which  Senator Townley  has referred in his question. I cannot agree with him that the complaints have been dealt with in an autocratic and inefficient manner. My own experience has been that the Australian Telecommunications Commission has been extremely courteous and helpful in trying to clear up complaints of subscribers.  Senator Townley  raised a matter which is of difficulty for some subscribers because, as far as I know there is no way of running a separate check on the automatic equipment which is used to record telephone accounts and, subject to checking the equipment for accuracy subsequently, there is really no way of dealing with complaints of this sort. 

 Senator Townley is correct, however, in stating that a method is available which would permit the separate accounting of STD calls. Unfortunately, that system is not in operation. In fact, its installation would be very expensive. I understand from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that Telecom has made some report on the possibility of introducing this sort of system. It has raised the matter initially on the basis of such a system being available as an optional service, which would probably involve an additional charge to the subscriber to meet the quite considerable capital costs involved. I am informed that the capital expenditure required for an optional service of the sort mentioned by  Senator Townley  would be about $56m. So, that is a matter which is still under consideration. There are financial difficulties in the way of introducing it. 
-Senator Kilgariff's question reminds me that it is far better to give than to receive. I remember giving  Sir Robert  Cotton a serve about the two-airline policy and the lack of competition between the two airlines with respect to catering which got me a lot of unfortunate publicity. However, that was easier than receiving the question. I must say to  Senator Kilgariff  that my own experience is that competition between the airlines in the food area has improved. I suspect that the fact that I am representing the Minister for Transport has inculcated a new competitive feeling between the two airlines. I noted newspaper reports on the matters to which  Senator Kilgariff  referred. I understand that the Department of Transport suggests that there are matters which make the comparison which has been made by the Bureau of Transport Economics a little difficult to use because there are circumstances peculiar to the Australian airline system. The BTE has also examined economy class air fares and I am advised by the Department that in those comparisons Australia is in the lower half of the scale for all distances considered. 
Some years ago I had prepared for me by the Parliamentary Library some figures on this matter which certainly showed that compared to 
European and American airlines Australia's airlines compared favourably on flights for many distances. The Government is anxious to encourage lower fares. A matter which will be of particular relevance to  Senator Kilgariff  is what is known as the APEX system. Since last October there has been an experiment in providing lower fares to people who book 30 days in advance. That has been available between capital cities but not with respect to Canberra and Darwin. Both airlines currently have applied for an extension of that experiment- also an extension to cover Darwin- that would enable people to pay a 25 per cent lower fare provided they are prepared to book in advance. 
The honourable senator has asked four questions. The answer to the first is yes. I am aware that there has been a lot of speculation. The answer to the next two questions is that the Government has its airline policy under review. When decisions are made as a result of that review, no doubt they will be announced by the Minister for Transport. I agree that in this area, as in any area of Government policy, the Government must be guided by what is in the best interests of the Australian people. With respect to the particular matter mentioned by the honourable senator, that is the Australian people being able to enjoy a reduction in fares and full freedom of choice of air carrier, I agree that they are important considerations. I add that it is also important to consider the regular availability of flights and so on. No doubt there are other factors which will need to be taken into account by the Government. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Presumably the honourable senator is referring to a request submitted to me by a  Mr J.  McMillan, then a lecturer in law at the University of New South Wales, seeking access to reports on certain railway accidents and a report concerning the condition of certain railway bridges in South Australia. I replied to  Mr McMillan  that I did not consider the reports should be released. 
I have reconsidered my decision having regard to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Bill 1978, which was introduced in the Senate by the Attorney-General on 9 June. The report on the condition of certain railway bridges in South Australia is connected with litigation in the Supreme Court of South Australia. I have given certain undertakings to the Court, in interlocutory proceedings for an interim injunction, not to release the report. I am not, therefore, in a position to make this report available. I have decided that the three accident reports may now be made available subject to the deletion of certain matter identifying persons from whom statements were taken, the release of which I consider would have a substantial adverse effect on staff management interests of the Australian National Railways within the meaning of clause 29 of the Freedom of Information Bill. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) Yes. I understand that in response to a request from  Mr J.  McMillan, then lecturer in law at the University of New South Wales, for access to files containing complaints about the Australian Broadcasting Commission programs, the then Minister indicated that his view was that such a request could not be granted. The request arose out of an answer which the Minister gave in reply to a question without notice asked in the House on 30 May 1977. In that reply he referred in general terms to the mail he received concerning some programs on the ABC and made comment about the volume and nature of the mail. I should mention that the Australian Broadcasting Commission does not maintain 'complaint files' as such. Correspondence from listeners and viewers directed to the Minister and the Commission concerning programs is maintained on various correspondence files depending on the subject concerned. It would be impracticable to attempt to extract from the Commission's files the broadly defined correspondence sought by  Mr McMillan. 
3 ) and (4)1 have reconsidered the decision having regard to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Bill 1978. 1 have, however, decided that in view of the broad nature of the request I should refuse it. The retrieval and release of the correspondence sought would require an unreasonably extensive use of the Commission's limited administrative resources, which I am not prepared to authorise. My decision is in accordance with clause 13 of the Bill which provides, among other things, for the refusal of a request for access that is expressed to relate to all documents of a specified class if compliance with the request would interfere unreasonably with the operations of an agency, having regard to any difficulty in identifying, locating or collating the documents within the filing system of the agency. 
It would be open for  Mr McMillan,  if he wishes to do so, to discuss with officers of the Commission whether his request might be put in such a way that access to particular matters might be granted without undue diversion of the resources of the Commission to locating the relevant documents. I should also say that in my view it would be proper for the Commission, if it made documents relating to complaints available, to do so on the basis that identifying personal details would be omitted in cases where this was necessary to preserve the privacy of those making complaints. I will also ask the Commission to review its administrative procedures in the light of the provisions of the Bill. Such a review would, of course, take some time to complete. 
May I add that in the meantime should any member of the community wish to seek information on the general nature of correspondence concerning the ABC I would be only too willing to assist. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) I am informed that records maintained by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal do not contain any reference to the specific request referred to by the honourable senator. Should such a request be received, it would be required to be considered by the Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of section 106a of the Broadcasting and Television Act. That section imposes on the Tribunal an obligation to make available upon request information assembled under the section. This includes information supplied to the Tribunal in accordance with section 106 of the Act. That obligation is subject to two exceptions: 
the Tribunal is required to have regard to any directions given by it under section 1 9 of the Act in relation to the information concerned; and 
information assembled under the section, other than information in relation to which a direction has been given under section 1 9 of the Act, shall not be made available in such manner or in such circumstances as, in the opinion of the tribunal, would be prejudicial to the interests of any person. 
It will be noted that the exceptions mentioned are similar to, although not necessarily identical with, the exemptions contained in paragraph 32 ( 1 ) (a) and paragraph 35 (b) of the Freedom of Information Bill 1978 now before the Senate. 
Beche-de-Mer Fishing Co. Pty Ltd (Question No. 484) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) Telecom Australia has advised that all but 2.5 per cent of Victorian subscribers can now make STD calls. The following exchanges are those within Victoria or Victorian switching areas which are yet to be provided with national subscriber trunk dialling (STD) access. The exchanges are listed under the respective financial year for which the provision of such access is tentatively programmed. 1978- 79-Anabranch (NSW), Balmattum, Balmoral, Bannerton, Banyena, Benambra, 'Berringama, 'Biggara, Bingo, Boho South, Boundary Bend, Buckrabanyule, Carranballac, 'Creighton's Creek, 'Cudgewa, Dimboola, Dunmunckle, Euroa, Euston (NSW), Fenton's Creek, Gatum, Gerang Gerung, Glen Valley, Goornong, Gymboyen, Hopevale, Jung, Kanagulk, Katyil Kenmare, Lillimur, Longwood, Mallacoota, Mannibadar, 'Miepoll, Mitre, Murtoa North, Nagambie, Nariel, Nariel Upper, Naringal, Omeo, Pigeon Ponds, Robinvale East, Robinvale South, 'Ruffy, Rupanyup East, Serviceton, Strathbogie, Swift's Creek, Vasey, Violet Town, Wemen, Winslow, Woolsthorpe, Yanac. 1979- -80-*Barep, Barkly, Borung, Buchan South, Cavendish, Colbinabbin, Dadswells Bridge, Girgarre, 
Glenorchy, Goroke, 'Green's Creek, 'Hall's Gap, Karnak, Korong Vale, 'Koyuga, 'Landsborough, Lascelles, Lubeck, Minimay, Moonambel, Mysia, 'Navarre, Nevapurr Nullawil, Peronne, 'Pomonal, Robinvale, Rochester, Rushworth, Sandsmere, Stanhope, Tongala, Wal Wal, Wanalta, Watchem, Wedderburn, Wentworth (NSW), Wyuna. 1 980- 8 1 -Antwerp, Apsley, Areegra, Aubrey, Avoca, Bangerang, Bealiba, Benayeo, Beulah, Birchip, Boolite, Boort, Brim, Bringalbert, Bringalbert South, Bullioh, Calivil, Charlton, Cravenville, Crymelon, Dingee, Douglas, Edenhope, Ellam, Elmore, Glenkee, Goodnight (NSW), Granya, Harrow, Homecroft, Kadnook, Kellalac, Koetong, Langkoop, Mitiamo, Mundarra, Newlands, Ozwnkadnook Patyah, Poolaijelo, Powers Creek, Roseberry, Sheep Hills, Tallangatta, Tallangatta Valley, Tarranyurk, Ullswater, Wallup, Warracknabeal, Willenabrina, Wilkur, Wombelano, Wycheproof. 1981- 82- Berriwillock, Bridgewater, Culgoa, Heywood, Inglewood, Jeparit, Kyalite (NSW), Licola, Lock Sport, Qambatook, Rainbow, Raywood, Rupanyup, Sea Lake, Serpentine, , Yapeet 1982- 83-*Boolarong, Dunolly, 'Fish Creek, 'Foster, Foster North, Hopetoun, Kaniva, Macorna, Minyip, Miram, Mortlake, Murtoa, Patchewollock, Pyramid Hill, Sandy Point, Skipton, 'Tidal River, 'Toora, 'Welshpool, Woorarra, 'Yanakie. 
Post 1982-83-Barnawartha, Eskdale, Pooncarie (NSW). 
* Limited STD access already available. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
(a) The stations concerned have been advised and other action as required under the Act (see reply to 6 below) will be taken at the appropriate time. 
Details not available to the Tribunal. 
Pursuant to provisions contained in Section 86 (8) of the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has adopted the policy that the renewal of existing licences should be subject to at least one public inquiry by the end of 1980. The program of inquiries into renewals is being scheduled on this basis. 
Under provisions contained in the Act, the Tribunal may exercise discretion in relation to: 
an inquiry into a renewal under Section 86 where no submissions of substance are received; 
an inquiry into a renewal under the transitional provisions of the Television Amendment Act 1 978; 
an inquiry into the grant of a licence for a translator, or television repeater station or for a community television aerial system where there is a single applicant only and no submissions objecting to the licence are received; 
) an inquiry into any general matter for which an inquiry is not specifically mentioned in the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
The Tribunal is required to conduct inquiries in accordance with provisions contained in the Broadcasting and Television Act. These provisions require, among other things, that- 
inquiries be held in public except in special circumstances for example; where the confidentiality of evidence is required; 
submissions and other documents be made available to the public; 
notice of the time and place of inquiries be advised to persons directly concerned and also publicly advertised; 
for inquiries into the renewal of licences for stations located in capital  cities  to be conducted by the Tribunal, as distinct from a Division of the Tribunal; 
for other inquiries to be conducted, at the discretion of the Tribunal, by a division of the Tribunal; (0 for a person who is directly concerned in the proceedings and, with the approval of the Tribunal, any other person having an interest in the proceedings, to be represented by a barrister, solicitor or agent; 
for the Tribunal to ensure that every person having an interest in proceedings before the Tribunal is given a reasonable opportunity to present his case, to inspect any documents to which the Tribunal proposes to have regard in reaching a decision and to make submissions in relation to those documents. All decisions are made by the Tribunal and in the event of the views being equally divided, the  Chairman  is empowered to exercise a casting vote. However, it should be noted that the Tribunal is required to publish a report in relation to each inquiry. 
Section 20 of the Broadcasting and Television Act requires that the Tribunal shall cause notice of the time and place of inquiry to be given to persons having an interest in the proceedings and for the notice to be published in such newspapers and by such other means as the Tribunal thinks fit. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Special Broadcasting Service has been in operation since 1 January 1978. The $ 1 ,00 1 ,000 included in Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1977-78 was paid to the Service in accordance with Section 79z (1) of the Broadcasting and Television Act. Details of actual expenditure by the Service, which totalled $971,235 for the half year ended 30 June 1978, are given on page 234 of Budget Document No. 4. On an annual basis, expenditure by the Service would be something over twice that amount. 
Charges for depreciation and interest on capital are not recorded in the accounts of the Service. The accounts and the financial statements required to be presented in the Annual Report of the Service reflect receipts and payments (cash flows) rather than income and expenditure accruals, the latter being appropriate to commercial business undertakings. 
Details of expenditure by the Service to 30 June 1978 are given on page 234 of Budget Document No. 4. 
The concept of funds invested is not compatible with the cash flow accounting of the Service. 
No. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer for the honourable senator's question: 
The expected completion date of the Tennant Creek-Alice Springs microwave system is August 1979, at which time the necessary additional equipment to permit full subscriber trunk dialling access will have been installed in the Alice Springs telephone exchange ready for commissioning of the new facilities. Hence making due allowance for the necessary integration testing of the overall facility, it is expected that full subscriber trunk dialling will be available at Alice Springs by the end of September 1979. 
With regard to the provision of a television link to permit interstate TV programs to be available at Alice Springs, the link is expected to be available in August 1979. The date when programs transmitted via this link are broadcast at Alice Springs is, however, a matter for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
The equipment being installed in the ABC's Alice Springs studio will provide high quality sound and colour pictures. It is in every respect similar to equipment installed and performing satisfactorily at Leigh Creek (South Australia) and all other ABC television repeater stations. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I can imagine situations in which police inquiries may be extended to the passenger lists of airlines and of other carriers. One would expect that the airlines would co-operate with the police as, indeed, their own security may be involved. 
However, the more specific matters you have raised do not fall within my portfolio. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The information sought is available in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette in respect of all Commonwealth Departments and those Statutory Authorities which are required by Finance Regulations under the Audit Act to publish, in summary form, details of contracts in excess of $1,000. Not all Commonwealth Government agencies are obliged to publish details of contracts in the Gazette, however, and information in respect of bodies which do not publish in the Gazette is not readily available. 
The extraction of published information, despite its availability, would be an extremely long and expensive manual process, particularly for the time-span 1968-1977 inclusive. I would, however, consider any request by the honourable senator for further information in relation to any particular contract listed in the Gazette. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Fire Board forwarded its report on the standardisation of fire hose couplings to the Department of Administrative Services, for transmission to the Minister, on 6 September 1977. 
and (3) The honourable senator may recall my statement when tabling the Fire Board 's report, which contained its recommendations, on 27 September 1978 in which I stated that the report had been furnished to the States on 3 January 1978. 1 also stated, in this regard, that I understood the responses from the States were varied; some indicated that they are committed to a coupling different from that recommended by the Commonwealth Fire Board, while others showed support for the Board 's findings. 
Aboriginal Co-operative Supermarkets (Question No. 706) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) There are currently some 172 licensed aerodromes thoroughout Australia which are neither owned by the Department of Transport nor the local authorities. As such these aerodromes are not eligible for direct financial assistance from the Department of Transport for aerodrome development works or development grants under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan. These aerodromes are owned by other Commonwealth Departments, State Government Departments, mining companies, mission stations, cattle stations and individuals. 
Because of the wide diversity of ownership, no complete records are maintained regarding scope and cost of past development works at these aerodromes. 
If the honourable senator has some particular aspect in mind perhaps relevant information could be obtained for him. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Statistics for the period 1 September 1977 to 31 August 1978 are not yet available, however provisional statistics for the year ended 30 September 1978 will be released in early October. 
Statistics of annual domestic revenue passenger movements into and out of Cairns, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton, Brisbane and Coolangatta airports, as at the end of the past five quarters, are shown below: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Department of Transport approved take-off in visibilities at 350 m or more for specific jet aircraft operations as follows: 
Qantas August 1976. 
AAA December 1977. 
TAA December 1977. 
The proposal to reduce take-off visibility minima was initiated by the above airlines. 
The justification in support of the applications was: 
comparable overseas practice. 
appropriate aircraft simulator training. 
The applications from Qantas and AAA were made in writing. The revised minima was also granted to TAA consistent with the Department's practice of applying specific conditions to appropriate airlines to conform with revised operational standards. 
Lower take-off minima commensurate with safe operations, promotes regularity of service. 
350 m take-off visibility minima has limited application for specified airline jet aircraft operations provided pilots are suitably qualified, at the following airports: 
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra, Darwin, Alice Springs, Port Hedland, Gove, Hobart, Launceston, Mackay, Proserpine, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, Mount Isa, Coolangatta. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: .  (a), (b) and (c) The Nomad aircraft is fitted with the Allison Model 250-B17B engines manufactured by Detroit Diesel Allison, a Division of General Motors Corporation of USA. 
Model 250 engines have been in production for over ten years with more than 1 1 ,000 engines being manufactured. The engine has proved reliable and has been fitted, in its various configurations, to a number of fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft. 
Every Allison 250 engine features modular design for easy access to the engine components and complete engine replacement is seldom required. 
A total of 5 unscheduled engine removals have occurred with the aircraft operated by the Northern Territory Medical Service and the Division of National Mapping. Four of these were confirmed as engine module failures. The fifth engine required an accessory change which could have been carried out without removing the engine. 
There have been two instances of failure of the number 1 bearing, one instance of failure of the fuel control/oil pump spur gear support bearing and one instance of failure of the power take-off and torquemeter gear. 
Trouble with the number 1 bearing has been experienced world wide with the B17B engines as fitted to Nomad and the engine manufacturer has accepted liability has engineered a modification to be incorporated dun - al overhaul of existing engines. The modification will . . orporated by the manufacturer in all new engines. 
The failure of the fuel control/oil pump support bearing has been accepted as the engine manufacturer's liability and was rectified under warranty. This is not a common problem and no further action is expected from Allison on this bearing failure. 
The failure of the power take-off gear and torquemeter gear is the first encountered in the Allison B 1 7B engines and is still under engineering investigation. 
Two Northern Territory Medical Service engines, one with number 1 bearing failure and the one with the torquemeter gear failure are still in work at the Allison agents in Australia and the full applicability of warranty and hence final cost of repairs has not yet been determined. 
and (e) While there have been occasional engine problems with Nomads operating elsewhere, these have been well within what is to be expected of aircraft engines in use in Australia and around the world. The Government Aircraft Factories consider the B17B engine to be a reliable and highly satisfactory power plant. 
Allison representatives will be visiting Australia in October 1978 as part of the company's engine support program and will review with GAF any engine problems being encountered by operators. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has informed me that the Tribunal has considered the Judgment of  His  Honour  Sir Keith  Aickin concerning the grant of radio translator station licences in Moranbah and Dysart in Queensland. 
The Tribunal considers the present procedures regarding the conduct of inquiries are conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
That sounds a most worthwhile suggestion. I will refer it to my colleague. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd. 
My Department has informed me that the then Department of Services and Property paid those accounts which came within its area of responsibility. As far as my Department is aware all Avis accounts for the period in question have now been paid. 
I refer the honourable senator to the information provided in answer to Parliamentary Question No. 853 (Senate Hansard 27 September 1978, page 103 1). 

 - Senator Mcintosh has asked me a series of questions about a domestic satellite. As a senator from Western Australia, he would know that at least some of his constituents would not share his apparent aversion to that proposal. In fact, last week in Meekatharra at a gathering of people from all over the more remote areas of Western Australia I found very great enthusiasm for the prospect of a domestic satellite. On the other aspects of the honourable senator's question, it is quite clear to the Senate, since a report has been tabled in this place and a statement has been made by the responsible Minister, that the Government has before it a report which comments on the feasibility of such a proposal and, I think, in fact recommends in favour of having a domestic satellite. The Government has said that it will consider that report and has sought public comment on it. I understand that a period of three months has been set for that public comment to be received. No doubt the unions and others interested in the matters raised by  Senator Mcintosh  will be making comments on it. 
The honourable senator has asked how much more quickly information will become available. Again, I can only refer him to the sort of people who were at Meekatharra last Friday- people who perhaps have no mail delivery or only one a fortnight, or who have either one radio station or none- and say to him that for people in that category there may well be a very substantial improvement in communications; that indeed there may be a substantial improvement in communications Australia- wide. As to whether the satellite would be launched in Australia or overseas and whether it would reduce unemployment, I have no information and will seek an answer for the honourable senator. 
I do not intend to make any comment on the word 'miserable' and the other expressions used by the honourable senator in his question. I think it is highly unlikely in the context of the present Budget and in accordance with present Government policy that the amount allocated to sport will be reviewed this year. I will refer the matter to my colleague. I think in fairness to the honourable senator I must say that I do so without any optimism. 

 - Senator Tate raises a matter which concerns many people in Australia, namely whether we should use the word 'Australian' or the word 'Commonwealth' in various circumstances. It is a matter on which I have received many representations. I am a little surprised that  Senator Tate  should take us to task in his question about incurring unnecessary expenditure especially when one thinks back to 1973 when there was a massive changeover of building names et cetera from the word 'Commonwealth' to the word 'Australian'. In fact, when the present Government assumed office it decided that it would resume the use of the title Commonwealth of Australia' or other expressions, such as 'Commonwealth Government', in an internal context and that it would maintain the use of the expresssion 'Australian ' externally. In other words, we decided that we would go on referring to 'Australian' departments in an overseas context. But it is important to note- this goes to the substance of the question put by  Senator Tate-  that the Government decided not to indulge in the sort of wholesale changeover of stationery, names and all the rest that was indulged in by the previous Government. 
In fact, there has been a process of gradual changeover. Indeed, that process is not yet complete. Within the past two days I have raised within the Government the question why that process is not going along quickly enough. A number of Government departments are still using the expression 'Australian' in circumstances which are causing considerable distress to many electors in Western Australia and, I am sure, to a lot of electors around Australia. However,  Senator Tate  will be shocked to know that I do not have in my immediate possession the figures he requested. But I will check the matter that he has raised and give him further information on it. 
This is a matter which I think probably now falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs. In fact, the precise position with respect to the development of the tourist village is a matter which might or might not be the responsibility of the Department of Home Affairs because I understand that as of 1 July the responsibility for the area of the Park was transferred to the Northern Territory Administration. So I will have to seek for the honourable senator information as to the precise extent of the continuing responsibility of the Commonwealth Government with respect to the tourist village. 
As far as the Park is concerned, I am advised that this year a budget of about $200,000 has been allocated for the sort of work which the honourable senator has mentioned. That will not enable the complete program to be carried out this financial year. The reason for that is financial stringency. A limited amount of money has been made available. I am advised that the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service is currently liaising with the appropriate Territory body to determine the priority works on which the money should be spent. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report of the review committee entitled ' Review of Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy' and annexes to the report together with the text of statements by the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Administrative Services. 
in reply- This has been a long and quite interesting debate. There have even been some points of emotion. I think the high emotional points have been those where the Opposition evidenced conversion to a low tax stance. It does appear that at least a number of members of the Opposition suddenly have become converts to the idea that people should be taxed less. I suspect that if that news filters out into the community it will be regarded as very good news indeed. But the fact is that a number of Opposition senators have mounted an attack on the Government mainly on the basis that it has, in this Budget, chosen to increase personal income tax on a temporary basis by one and a half per cent. That has been attacked as a going back on election promises which related to the lowering of taxation. Quite frankly, I find it a little ludicrous to hear out of the mouths of honourable senators opposite complaints about the levels of taxation under this Government when the statistics are so clear that tax collections under their own government increased so mightily. These facts are well known and well established. I will put some statistics before the Senate shortly to demonstrate that fact. 
The Labor Government made no promises at all in this area because its performance was one of stealth. The Whitlam Government chose to increase the take of income tax simply by taking advantage of the dramatic increase in the rate of inflation. Again, that is not a matter of argument; that is a matter of fact. It seems highly unlikely that the Labor Party would have gone out to the community promising to increase taxation through inflation. Its silence on the subject does the Labor Party no credit at all. The fact of the matter is that it did nothing to introduce tax indexation which would have reduced the increase of taxes on Australian citizens. It simply stood back and took the benefit of the vastly increased income tax collections during those years. 
The record of the present Government is clear. It is also clear that the Government regrets that it has to introduce even a temporary surcharge of this nature. It regrets it because it is committed to lower taxation. But the facts again are clear. In the first year of this Government, full tax indexation was introduced at a cost to revenue of $990m. In the following year the cost of full indexation and the reform of the rate scale was 
<para pgwide="yes">INCOME TAX-TABLE COMPARING THE TAX PAYABLE ON SELECTED INCOMES FROM 1952-53 INCOME YEAR FOR A TAXPAYER WITH DEPENDENT WIFE 
Income Tax Payable on Selected Incomes for the year ended 30 June (S)  $ 1,370m. In 1978-79 there will be half indexation and rate scale reform which will cost us about $700m. In fact there is a massive decrease in the amount of tax which would have been collected but for the reforms of this Government. The fact that it has been found necessary to impose a one and a half per cent increase for the current financial year is a simple demonstration of what the Government has always asserted is one of the benefits of taxation. If a government wishes to collect more revenue it has to go before the Australian people and increase the tax rate. It does not increase the tax rate simply by taking advantage of inflation. 
It is also clear that even taking into account the temporary increase of one and a half per cent, all taxpayers will still pay lower tax for 1978-79 compared with what they would have paid on the same income in the previous tax year. I have here two tables prepared by the Australian Taxation Office which set out figures which are instructive. The first table compares the tax payable on selected incomes from 19S2-S3 for a taxpayer with a dependent wife. The second table shows the same comparison for a taxpayer without dependants. I seek leave to incorporate those tables in  Hansard  because they set out quite simply the taxation record of this Government. 
Leave granted. 
Income 
1973 
1974 
1975 
1976 
1977 
1978 
1979 
1,200........ 
1,500........ 60.12 60.12 
2,000........ 114.37 114.37 
2,500........ 191.69 191.69 4.40 
3,000........ 283.35 283.35 74.40 
3,500........ 389.42 389.42 174.40 
4,000........ 510.74 510.74 274.40 
4,500........ 649.50 649.50 404.40 135.00 
<para pgwide="yes">5,000........ 801.00 801.00 534.40 270.00 81.80 
<para pgwide="yes">5,500........ 962.58 962.58 694.40 445.00 216.80 47.94 
<para pgwide="yes">6,000........ 1,129.95 1,129.95 854.40 620.00 379.80 193.37 108.84 
<para pgwide="yes">7,000........ 1,492.14 1,492.14 1,234.40 970.00 729.80 518.45 443.84 
<para pgwide="yes">8,000........ 1,879.86 1,879.86 1,659.84 1,320.00 1,079.80 855.94 778.84 
<para pgwide="yes">9,000........ 2,290.94 2,290.94 2,125.28 1,670.00 1,429.80 1,193.43 1,113.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">10,000........ 2,728.17 2,728.17 2,605.28 2,020.00 1,779.80 1,530.92 1,448.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">11,000........ 3,195.25 3,195.25 3,110.72 2,470.00 2,129.80 1,868.41 1,783.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">12,000........ 3,677.25 3,677.25 3,630.72 2,920.00 2,549.80 2,205.90 2,218.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">13,000........ 4,199.95 4,199.95 4,169.80 3,370.00 2,999.80 2,570.68 2,453.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">14,000........ 4,745.95 4,745.95 4,719.80 3,820.00 3,449.80 2,966.47 2,788.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">15,000........ 5,291.95 5,291.95 5,269.80 4,270.00 3,899.80 3,362.26 3,123.84 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">20,000........ 8,229.20 8,229.20 8,201.60 7,020.00 6,454.80 5,644.80 5,273.72 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">25,000........ 11,415.74 11,415.74 11,387.04 10,020.00 9,324.80 8,207.15 7,648.72 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Income 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 
<para pgwide="yes">50,000........ 27,675.91 27,675.91 27,676.12 26,270.00 25,412.30 23,340.92 21,873.48 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">100,000........ 61,025.91 61,025.91 61,176.12 58,770.00 57,912.30 54,798.42 52,623.48 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Tax threshhold..... 1,041 1,041 2,105 4,001 4,698 5,336 5,676 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">INCOME TAX-TABLE COMPARING THE TAX PAYABLE ON SELECTED INCOMES FROM 1952-53 INCOME YEAR FOR A TAXPAYER WITHOUT DEPENDANTS 
Income Tax Payable on Selected Incomes for the year ended 30 June ($) 
-The tables also indicate another substantial reform which has been effected by this Government- that is, the increase in the level of the tax threshold. This has had the effect of exempting a large number of taxpayers and, most importandy, very low income tax payers from paying any tax at all. In 1979 we have a tax threshold of $5,676 for a man with a dependent wife. So low income earners and those who are dependent on social security payments and benefits of that nature, the people for whom  Senator McLaren  properly expressed concern, who have an income below $5,676 for man and wife pay no tax at all. For a single person, if the income received is under $3,894, no tax is paid. This is a very substantial increase in the tax threshold which applied under Labor. Once again it can be written ofT by the Opposition now as being irrelevant, but I would suggest that it is of very great relevance to the taxpayers concerned. 
There is another matter to which I wish to refer and that is the way personal income tax collections in this country have increased over recent years. I have another table which has been prepared by the Australian Taxation Office which sets out the amount of income collected from 1968-69 to 1978-79. It then proceeds to adjust these figures in constant terms and sets out the percentage change in the amount of income tax collected year by year. That is a very instructive table. If one looks at it, one will find that during those halcyon days of the Labor Government when our newly converted low tax people were in office- most of those who I see before me now were sitting opposite me in the Government benches at that time- in 1973-74 in constant terms there was a 20 per cent in income tax collections. We find that in constant terms in 1974-75 there was a 19.9 per cent increase in income tax collections. What is the position this year, the year in which they are so bitterly complaining about what this Government has done? This year there will be a minus 0.3 per cent change- I repeat, minus 0.3. The fact is that since this Government has been in office the rate of income tax has been controlled through indexation. That fact is that ordinary income tax earners have been able to maintain the same proportion of their earnings and there has not been the tax increase which was in effect under Labor. I seek leave to incorporate that table in  Hansard. 
Yes. The tables were shown to  Senator Grimes  and he agreed to their incorporation. 
-That is the procedure. I showed the tables to  Senator Grimes  and he indicated that he had no objection to their being incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

PERSONAL INCOME TAX COLLECTIONS 
Collections of PA YE and other individuals income tax less PA YE refunds (Statement No. 6 attached to the Budget Speech). 
Budget Paper 9 and Australian National Accounts, 1976-77. 
Budget estimate of collections. Deflator assumes a 7.0 per cent increase in line with the discussion in Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  The main point of attack upon this Bill was made by  Senator Walsh  who said that the main issue was this 1  Vi  per cent increase in income tax in the light of the Government's commitment. The major point to be made is the point which is borne out by these tables. The burden of income tax has been reduced enormously under this Government. The surcharge is in fact a proof of the virtue of indexation that was promised by this Government. In other words the Government has had to go before the Australian people and say: 'On this occasion we need additional revenue. Therefore it is necessary for us to increase tax rates'. There has been a degree of scepticism expressed on the other side of the chamber about the period for which the surcharge or increase will apply. I can only point out to the Opposition and to the chamber that the legislation itself specifically provides that it should apply only for this year. 
A couple of other matters with which I wanted to deal were raised by previous speakers. Firstly,  Senator Townley  was concerned about the basis of taxing retirement payments for annual leave. He instanced a case of an employee who might retire on 1 July 1979 and receive a payment of $1,000 for unused annual leave and although receiving no other income that income year be liable to a tax of $320 as a consequence. That is a very good example of how misleading some of these hard cases can be. In fact a taxpayer in that situation would pay no tax at all in the circumstances that  Senator Townley  has outlined. If that were his only income, he would be below the tax threshold and would not be liable to income tax. 
The precise example given was a man who retired at the beginning of the financial year and received his money. The fact of the matter is that in the view of the Government- in my opinion that view is correct- the government does not consider that the annual leave measure is a retrospective change in the law. I have spoken to a number of people about the change which has been made. The interesting thing is that people always refer to the belief that people 's expectations have been dashed. They believe that they were proper expectations of what they thought was going to be their position in the future. Of course, any tax change affects the expectations of taxpayers. For example, when one enters into a contract for employment at a certain rate of pay one expects to get the salary and presumably one expects to be taxed on it. The fact of the matter is that the rate of tax can be varied at any time. On any proper definition of retrospectivity this is not a retrospective measure. 
-The 5 per cent is something which in prospect might apply to a lump sum received on retirement. 
It is interesting to see the Opposition so anxious about this matter. I hope its concern in the field of taxation remains. But I have yet to hear members of the Opposition object when for example there is an adjustment to company tax which results in additional company tax being paid on the previous year's income. That is certainly in my view a genuine case of retrospectivity. 
Apparently companies are immaterial to the Opposition and therefore it rejects the example. The fact is that the law is being changed with respect to future payments of income and not with respect to past payments of income. There is no ground for an argument on the basis of retrospectivity.  Mr President,  since the hour is late I do not propose to deal with the other matters which have been raised in this debate. I understand that there will be a debate in the Committee stages. That will provide an opportunity to put views. I thank those honourable senators who have supported the legislation and I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Question put- 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
I suppose that there is always an element of ad hockery involved in the selection of bodies that are entitled to tax deductibility because not all bodies are. I suppose that the only unusual thing about this particular body is that it has some overseas aspect about it, and that that matter was raised in the debate in the other place. There is a variety of bodies which receive tax deductibility status in respect of donations made to them and this is but one. I can only say that it obviously appears to the Government to be a body worth fostering in an area which is important. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that he sees an important role for Australian business in the taking of practical action through support for this fund to achieve wildlife conservation and that is the basis for this decision. 
My advice is that this is the position that has applied in the past. For example, last year the same provision applied. So this provision is not unique or new. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 
Income Tax (Individuals) Bill 1978 
Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1978 
Health Insurance Levy Bill 1978 
I do not have the information to hand but my understanding is that the Australian branch of this fund has only recently commenced operations. I think it commenced operations as recently as June. It is a newcomer to the Australian scene and I do not think that there would be very much useful information of the sort that you require. 

I have not studied the matters referred to by the honourable senator. I do not think the Acts mentioned come within my responsibility. I will certainly examine the matter. If it is not within my authority I will refer the question to the appropriate Minister. 
I have often heard people in this place claim not to read newspapers. I would not wish to claim never to read my mail but I really do not know whether the document to which the honourable senator has referred came in my mail this morning. I will have to seek the views of the appropriate Minister on the matters that the honourable senator has raised. I must say that the figures that he has quoted appear to be self-explanatory. He referred to the technical and expensive sport of gliding as getting $ 1,500 and certain other sports which are of a less technical nature getting larger sums. In particular he mentioned basketball $50,000 and trampolining $15,750. I can only suggest to the honourable senator that those sums may bear some relation to the number of people in the Australian community who participate in those respective sports. 
Dealing first with the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh,  it seems to me that his is the sort of argument that could be used in a variety of situations but really to no good effect. For example, we could say that money devoted to education is in fact squandered on salaries for teachers and that in turn part of that is a loan that the teachers pay back to the Government in tax. With the acceptance of, for example, the taxation of other income maintenance payments I think we are simply adopting the principle that people in the community get their income in a variety of ways- some by personal exertion, some by transfer payments from government and all the rest. But in general one can say that, however a person gets his income, he ought to bear a fair share of the tax which is levied on the whole community. In logic I find it hard to distinguish between income which is received from government and income which is received from personal exertion. I do not really think that the point which  Senator Cavanagh  has made is valid. Wherever government grants money for a purpose which includes the payment of salaries the same argument applies. I believe that it really does not advance the case. 
I am not able to give  Senator Button  the figures he has requested. I do not have them available to me at the moment. I can only say to him that I will seek those figures and let him have them. If he wants them put in the  Hansard  record at a later time I will do so. 
Unfortunately the figures which  Senator Colston  incorporated in  Hansard  are not before me, but I do have some figures on recent trends in these post graduate awards. What is quite clear is that over the past couple of years some reasonable increases have been made to the amounts which are paid, although an increase has not been made in the current year. The basic rates of benefit have been quoted already, but I do have details of the recent changes. The entitlements under the award were not increased this year but there were increases in both 1977 and 1978. The basic stipend went up from $3,250 to $4,000 in 1977 and to $4,200 in 1978. Since 1976 substantial increases have been made in the dependant allowances, with the allowance for a dependent spouse being increased from $780 to $1,508 in 1977 and to $1,632 in 1978. 
The other point which needs to be borne in mind with respect to these awards is that they are essentially simply another method of providing income for people who are not earning income for an obvious reason; in this case, because they are pursuing post graduate studies. I can see no reason in logic for treating that income any differently from income received from any other source, be it by personal exertion or otherwise. I suppose the important point is that if income tax is imposed on these awards that becomes relevant in determining the proper level at which the award should be set. In making any future examination of the appropriate level of post graduate awards, clearly it will have to be taken into account that the effect of the tax provision is to reduce the value of the award for some or all of the holders. I indicate to  Senator Colston  and to the Senate generally that with respect to the current year it is unlikely that very many of these awards will be subject to tax because it is the amount of the award which is received from 1 November to 30 June that is taken into account and it seems likely that most of these students will receive an amount below the tax threshold in the current financial year. 
I think there is some logic in the point which  Senator Colston  raised about the thesis allowance. That is a matter which I will certainly take back to the Government for examination.  Senator Colston  made the point that the first $250 is to be dealt with under the self-education provision and that when a student is within the general rebate he in fact gets no financial benefit from that $250 deduction. I think that is the point that  Senator Colston  makes. On the other hand an expenditure of more than $250 will reduce the assessable income. I accept that there is a little oddity in that situation and I will take it up with the Government to see whether it ought to be reviewed for the future. I do not think for the reason I have indicated that it is of great significance for the current financial year. Because we are only looking at the portion of the awards that is received from November to June the impact of taxation is likely to be fairly slight. 
I would not like to mislead  Senator Colston  in any sense. I am saying that I will take the matter back to the Government for examination in the context of the following year; that, for the reasons I have outlined, I do not believe in the current year it will be particularly relevant to many students. Again referring to the present situation in the current year there might be a substantial tax saving, not in respect of the student who is solely reliant on the allowance, but rather in respect of the student who has additional income where the two sets of income would be aggregated. As a matter of social justice, which I think is the aspect with which the honourable senator is concerned, that does not worry me as much. Obviously, if one has additional income one's general welfare status is much better. It will affect students who,  in the current financial year, have incomes additional to these allowances. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
After section 26ab of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 26ac. (1) This section applies to any amount paid after 15 August 1978 (whether voluntarily, by agreement or by compulsion of law) to a taxpayer in a lump sum in consequence of the retirement of the taxpayer after that date from any office or employment or in consequence of the termination after that date of any office or employment of the taxpayer, being an amount that is paid in respect of unused annual leave or in respect of unused annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to that leave. 
Where an amount to which this section applies is paid to a taxpayer in a year of income, that amount shall be included in the assessable income of the taxpayer of the year of income. 
The reference in sub-section (1) to the payment to a taxpayer in consequence of the retirement of the taxpayer from any office or employment or in consequence of the termination of any office or employment of the taxpayer of a lump sum in respect of unused annual leave shall be read as including a reference to the payment to the taxpayer in consequence of that retirement or termination, as the case may be, of an amount in respect of, or an amount calculated directly or indirectly by reference to, annual leave, or annual leave and a bonus, loading or other additional payment relating to annual leave, to which the taxpayer was not entitled immediately before that retirement or termination, as the case may be, but to which the taxpayer would have become entitled, or that would ordinarily have been granted to the taxpayer, at a later time if the taxpayer had continued in that office or employment for a period after the time of the retirement or termination, as the case may be. 
In this section, 'annual leave' means- 
leave described as annual leave, recreation leave or annual holidays, being leave to which a person has an entitlement by virtue of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, an award, determination or industrial agreement in force under any such law, a contract of employment or the terms of appointment to an office; 
leave described otherwise than as annual leave, recreation leave or annual holidays, being leave to which a person has an entitlement by virtue of such a law, award, determination, industrial agreement or contract or by virtue of the terms of appointment to an office and the entitlement to which is determined by reference to matters similar to matters by reference to which entitlement to leave referred to in paragraph (a) is ordinarily determined; or 
leave that may be made available to a person as a privilege, being leave the availability of which is ordinarily determined by reference to matters similar to matters by reference to which entitlement to leave referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) is ordinarily determined. 
I may not need to answer honourable senators for as long as might have been expected from the length of the debate. According to my notes,  Senator Rae  answered Senators Chipp and Townley.  Senator McLaren  answered all the Liberal Party supporters not once but three or four times.  Senator Button  answered  Senator Evans  and  Senator Missen  answered both himself and Senators Walters and Button. I would never have been game enough to have been as rude to  Senator Missen  as he was to himself. I can only note his abject ignorance of tax law and thank him for that contribution. 
The Senate has before it an amendment moved by  Senator Townley.  I remind the Senate of that because in recent speeches the debate has ranged somewhat off the Committee's consideration of the Bill. The real thrust of what  Senator Townley  has put to the chamber is that the clause that he wishes to replace affects the expectations of a number of people. Indeed, that is the way in which he expressed it both last night and today. Last night he said: 
I contend the second person - 
That is a person who retired after the critical date-  legally and rightly expected that he would have certain money in the bank because he had decided or had been asked, or whatever, not to take his holidays over the past year. 
Again this afternoon  Senator Townley  used the expression that this legislation affected expectations. Those words are worth noting carefully because, as  Senator Rae  outlined, they form the proper basis for saying that this is not retrospective legislation. Whilst  Senator Chipp  quoted the second reading speech with some bemusement, stating that he found it very difficult to understand, and indeed he heaped some ridicule on it, I think that careful examination of that speech will show that what is affected here is not a previously enjoyed right but an expectation. That is the worst that can be said for this legislation. It certainly does not represent retrospectivity. So I do not believe that an issue of principle arises. 
I respect the sincerity with which  Senator Townley  has put this amendment forward. I certainly accept- I am sure the Government does also- that there will be people in the community whose expectations have been affected. But that is not to say that any vested right which they have has been retrospectively interfered with. For that reason, the Government does not accept the argument in principle. There is no basis on that technical argument, in my view, for considering the amendment. 

 Senator Townley raised a number of questions in his second contribution and I will advert to them specifically. The Government does not propose to accept his amendment. That is basically the answer to the first question that he asked. Secondly, he raised the difficulty that might be experienced by a retrenched worker. The germ of the proper answer to that is contained in the contribution that was made by  Senator Button.  Really, the issue that was raised by  Senator Evans,  by  Senator Elstob  and by  Senator Townley  in his second contribution concerned a worker whose job comes to an end and who experiences a delay in regaining employment. People in the construction industry were referred to and so on. 
Properly, that question ought to be considered as being within the normal area of government that is concerned with income security. I do not believe that it is a function of the tax law to provide income security in that sense. It is quite inefficient to have a tax law that makes provision for such people but, in addition, enables a lot of other people who are not in that position to get a tax-free benefit. 
It is somewhat surprising that in this debatenot in view of the politics but of the rationalehonourable senators opposite, and indeed some on this side of the chamber, should in any sense object to the proposition that tax ought to be paid on all income. I would have thought that in general one should be looking for a tax system which falls evenly and fairly on the community. Having a lot of ad hoc provisions which exempt certain incomes and enable people in many instances to arrange their affairs so as to escape income tax, would not be socially just. The whole basis of the legislation is sound and ought to be supported by all parties. 
The qualification that is in the minds of those of my colleagues who have spoken, and in the minds of many honourable senators opposite, concerns the problems of expectations and of wreaking some hardship.  Senator Sim  cited the case of the person who had committed himself on the basis of his expectations. There are some hard cases, but I do not think that they justify continuing what I see to be a bad law. 

 Senator Wriedt also raised a number of technical questions. In particular, he queried the meaning of proposed new section 26AD, subsection (3) (c) B which refers to the number of whole days of long service leave that are to be included. I am advised- indeed this reading of it makes sense- that what is referred to is simply the number of days. The word 'whole' is being used to avoid any question arising of fractions of days to which there might be an entitlement. If we look at the formula which applies to the lump sum amount we see that it is divided by the number of days of long service and that clearly is the meaning of the provision.  Senator Wriedt  raised the matter of the definition of F and he pointed out that the sub-paragraphs have been lettered (d) and (e). Whilst I agree with him that there is some appearance of confusion in that (d) and (e) in fact do not follow (a), (b) and (c) as a series of sub-paragraphs, I think it would have been even more confusing to use (a) and (b) again in that context. I do not believe that it will give rise to difficulties of interpretation. I have checked that matter also. 
Fair enough. One could have used some other form of lettering or notation. I do not think it is critical and the Government does not propose to make any further amendment.  Senator Sim  raised the possibility of some discretionary provision being included. Whilst I am not privy to the fact as to whether the Government gave that matter some consideration, I can say that I gave it some consideration and came to the conclusion that it would give rise to an absolute can of worms situation. I could not imagine a formula which would not involve a discretionary power being given to the Commissioner in an area where it would be almost impossible to prove facts. I simply do not think that it would be possible to follow the course that was suggested by  Senator Sim. 
With respect to  Senator Evans's  suggestion, I have already commented that I do not believe that it is a function of the tax system to provide the sort of income security which he has put forward. I commend to him the study of  Senator Button's  comments in response to  Senator Walters  in which he put fairly well, I think, the segregation of policy point that I try to make in response to  Senator Evans.  A matter was also raised by  Senator Elstob.  It is probably at this point that I should, to some extent, qualify what I said earlier in response to  Senator Townley. Senator Elstob  raised the question of what would happen if somebody received $3,200 when he retired a couple of weeks after 1 July. The honourable senator commented on the fact that I had responded to  Senator Townley  that if a person had no other income in that year, that amount would not be taxable. If tax was deducted he would subsequently be able to get a refund although there is also a provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act, section 221d, which would permit him to apply to the Commissioner to not have the deduction taken out at all. It has since been pointed out to me- I think very properlythat it would be unusual for somebody to receive money and have no further income for the balance of the year. For example, a person who has retired might receive superannuation or the old age pension. In that case the aggregation of income would very likely mean that tax would be payable on at least some of that income. If a person retired and had no other income, the position would be as I outlined. If he then received a retirement income certainly there would be aggregation and only the first $3,800 or $3,900- whatever is the amount that is now tax free- would be free of tax. Of course I adopt the comments made by  Senator Rae  who set out my views and I think the Government's views on the retrospectivity of this matter. He was supported by  Senator Martin. 
In closing my comments, I commend  Senator Keeffe  on his incredible perspicacity in this matter. He has obviously examined the Bill extremely carefully. He has identified it as a revenue raising measure. He pronounced that point at the beginning of his comments as being something which branded this legislation in some way. I can only assure the chamber that in bringing forward a Bill for an Act which is labelled the Income Tax Assessment Act the Government had no intention of sneaking up on  Senator Keeffe  or any other honourable senator. It accepts that this is indeed a revenue raising measure. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator  Townley's amendment) be left out. 
I have now been shown the section under which the various bodies which have tax deductible status are listed. It is quite proper for  Senator Button  to query the priorities given to children and wildlife. 
I will ignore the irreverent interjection from  Senator Missen. Senator Button  will be pleased to know, as I am, that under section 78 one of the bodies which has this benefit is the United Nations Appeal for Children, so there is another example of the bodies which are selected for tax deductible status. There is a great variety of such bodies, including the Council for Christian Education in Schools, the various national trusts of the States and the Sydney Myer Music Bowl Trust. One might well ask why the latter organisation was singled out when it benefits Melbourne in particular. Although the expression 'ad hoc' might be objected to by some, there is a very great mixture of bodies which have this tax status. 
I would have thought, given the current considerable interest in wildlife conservation, that it was not at all peculiar for this body to receive the status that it has. Even Brigitte Bardot seems to have devoted a massive amount of her attention over the last few years to the preservation of dying species. Members of the Australian Labor Party might take great heart from that because she may even direct some of her attention to them. All that tends to demonstrate that many people are taking interest in this area. The fact that the Australian Government also is taking an interest I would have thought would have been welcomed. That somebody as distinguished as the Duke of Edinburgh is the patron of this fund simply underlines its broad public acceptability. I have not noticed that he becomes patron of things which do not have that character and I do not see that fact as being in any sense something which ought to be questioned. 
The tables referred to by  Senator McLaren  are on pages 1249 and 1250 of  Hansard  for all to see. They show a series of reductions right through the life of this Government when compared with the tax rates under the Labor Government. Certainly the Hayden Budget introduced some tax reductions. I acknowledge that. I suggest that  Senator McLaren  also look at the table on personal income tax collections which was incorporated at page 125 1 of  Hansard  and which shows the very substantial percentage increase in income tax collections under that government. On the other matters to which  Senator McLaren  referred I have no detailed comment with which to respond. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual report of the Patent, Trade Marks and Designs Office for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I hate to disappoint the honourable senator, but I can only say that I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport and seek a detailed reply. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. The Australian Telecommunications Commission is able to adjust many of its charges on its own decision. In respect of basic telecommunications charges, however, it must seek the approval of the responsible Minister. The Commission took the view that advice which it had given to the then Minister in those circumstances should be treated as confidential. 
and (3) It is my understanding that the advice to the Minister in respect of increases in telegram charges for the year 1977-78 was not a document of a class for which exemption would be sought in terms ofthe present Freedom of Information Bill as now drafted. I will ask the Australian Telecommunications Commission to reconsider its attitude on this matter in the light of the Government's commitment to the principles embodied in the Freedom of Information Bill 1 978, should any further request be made for a copy of the report concerned. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Grants-in-aid of $45,000 were made to the National Youth Council of Australia in each of the financial years 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 for general support purposes. 
Details relating to the National Youth Council's expenditure of funds in 1977-78 are not yet available. Expenditure for 1975-76 and 1976-77 was as follows: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Such commercial matters are confidential. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
No. 
-Although I had not seen all of the allegations which are referred to by  Senator Puplick  in his question I had seen some of them. He did indicate to me that he wanted to get some detailed response on the matters which he had just mentioned in his question. The general answer to those questions is, I think, no, the allegations are not true. But to answer them in more detail and in accordance with information I have obtained from the Minister for Transport: Firstly, the Minister has not deliberately distorted  Sir Freddie  Laker's proposals. In the first instance, these proposals were not for a Skytrain such as he operates between London and New York. Skytrain is a scheduled service offering one class of standby fare. The Laker Airways proposal made to the Government was for a nonscheduled or charter operation of two DC 10 services per week with advanced booking conditions. The proposal was to operate these services between London/Luxembourg and Sydney or Melbourne. 
The second question related to a claim that cheaper air fares will not be available to Australian travellers before Christmas 1979. The Government is pressing ahead to have cheaper air fares introduced on as many routes as possible in the first quarter of next year, as  Mr Nixon  told the Parliament last week. He said he hoped to be in a position to make a further announcement by Christmas this year, not Christmas next year, but that this must necessarily depend upon the consent of other governments. The third question related to whether the Yugoslav, Netherlands and French airlines would be forced off Europe- Australia run. The Minister for Transport has said repeatedly that the intention is that discussions should be held with other countries in Europe apart from the United Kingdom, and his statement last week made it plain that it was hoped to do this quickly. Those discussions will be aimed at ways of maintaining direct air services, but also will wish to take account of the policy objectives the Government outlined last week and the Australian Government's interest in securing lower fares on those routes. 
The fourth question suggested that flights to the United Kingdom would be reduced from 1 7 to seven per week from Sydney and from 17 to five per week from Melbourne. This is, I am pleased to inform honourable senators, quite untrue. While discussions with the United Kingdom remain to be finalised, as the Minister for Transport made quite clear last week the discussions that have been held to date were predicated on British Airways and Qantas Airways Ltd between them providing 10 services per week from each of Melbourne and Sydney to London. The last question said that we are aiming to featherbed Qantas and this would be to the detriment of Australian travellers and potential tourists. These comments reflect little understanding of the Government's intention. Indeed, the announced indicative fare levels for London from eastern Australia indicate the very significant fare savings that we believe can be made. Secondly, and most importantly, these fare reductions are offered while at the same time regular services offering travel for those members of the public who wish to travel quickly or at short notice are retained. It is of little value to a businessman or to a person wishing to visit a sick relative in the United Kingdom to have to wait 2 1 or 45 days to get a service. The report of the review committee made very clear the interrelationship between the supply of different classes of air services. The honourable senator's attention in this respect is particularly directed to annexure E of the committee's report which attempts to quantify the scheduling implications for alternative policy course. 
I would draw his attention to the section in the statement appearing at page 19 which showed that the Government carefully considered whether arrangements would lead to inefficiencies in the production and distribution of air travel. In particular I would ask him to note the measures the Government has said it will take in future and importantly to note that the Government is to review its single designation policy in 1981. The principal limitation to moving away from that policy at this stage was the size of existing markets. The Government hopes that the measures it is seeking to put into effect will encourage travel growth and expand markets very rapidly. Certainly a reduction of nearly $300 in the lowest available individual fare between eastern Australia and London cannot be held to be to the detriment of Australian travellers or the attraction of tourists to Australia. Finally, I will consult the Leader of the Government in the Senate on the timetable for debate on the statement, which obviously is of considerable interest to honourable senators. 
I must confess that I have not set as my ambition for these first few months to be a pacesetter in the reform of anything very much at all. I have to say at this stage that my answer to the honourable senator is no. As I have indicated to the Senate before, and as was indicated by  Senator Withers  over a period, it is the intention of the Government to bring forward a general review of the electoral laws. It is my intention to discuss that general review with officers of the Australian Electoral Office within the next few weeks and to get some idea of the parameters of that proposal. I will bear the honourable senator's suggestion in mind when I am having those discussions. 
-I certainly will look at the extracts from  Hansard  to which the honourable senator has referred me and bear them in mind when I am having those discussions. 
My attention has been drawn to a recent article in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  which does suggest that there has been a complete reversal of the policy of the Swedish Government with respect to the development of nuclear power. It is further suggested in that article that that radical turnaround has not been remarked upon by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am afraid that my study of what has been happening in Sweden is very small indeed and I am not in a position to confirm the facts which have been indicated by the honourable senator. I must say with some trepidation that the extent to which I listen to the ABC has become fairly limited so I cannot even confirm whether it has been covering the Swedish position. 
However, I think it is a matter of some interest. I shall make some inquiries about the matter raised by the honourable senator. I am sure that if the Swedish Government has seen fit to make such a radical change in policy it will be of interest to the Australian people and is a matter which I think they would wish to see publicised. 
As the honourable senator is aware, I do have some knowledge of these problems because he and I were in Meekatharra at the same meeting some weeks ago. 
At that meeting there was a considerable airing of the difficulties faced by some people living in remote areas. Although that seems to cause some hilarity opposite, for reasons I do not understand, there are in fact Australians living 20 or 30 miles from their nearest neighbour, often in quite difficult climatic conditions and of recent years in conditions of considerable economic difficulty. The fact is that the mail services available to those people have tended to diminish in recent years, in part because of the lessening population and in part, I suppose, because of the greatly increased cost of doing almost anything. I am aware that these difficulties exist. They are matters which have been the subject of representations to the Minister and they are matters which I think are currently receiving Government attention. I am not aware of any specific measures that are available to provide assistance to those families which are particularly reliant on the mails for providing education for their children. That is a matter  which I will take up with the responsible Minister, who already administers extensive programs of assistance for education in remote areas. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The money expended by the Commonwealth Government on the Housing Allowance Experiment since July 1976 is$1, 01 4,900. 
The following table shows, at various times, the number of staff in Environment, Housing and Community Development directly involved in the Housing Allowance Experiment since its inception: 
September 1976-8 fulltime, 2 part time 
June 1977-15 full time 
December 1977-15 full time 
June 1978-45 full time 
September 1978-1 full time. 
The remaining staff member is involved in matters concerned with the wind-down of the Experiment. 
Four people were employed under contract from outside the Service for varying periods. Three people, three firms and two Tertiary institutions were contracted for specific tasks and advanced negotiations were in train for the engagement of a consulting firm to undertake the extensive questionnaire survey operations. All consultancies have been terminated. 
The Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers of Victoria and Tasmania several days before the press statement was issued. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) (a) Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. 
Australian Heritage Commission. 
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Region. 
(a) Australian National Parks and Wildlife Servicesee Section 52 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975. 
Australian Heritage Commission- see Section 43 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975. 
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority- see Section 60 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1 975. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation- see Section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1 965. 
Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Regionsee Section 36 of the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act 1978. 
(a) Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service-28 September 1977. 
Australian Heritage Commission- 11 October 1977. 
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority- 10 May 1978. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation- 1 6 January 1978. 
Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Regionsee (2) (e). 
(a) Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service- 1 November 1977. 
Australian Heritage Commission- 4 November 1977. 
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority- 1 1 May 1978. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation- 22 February 1978. 
Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Regionsee (2) (e). 
) (a) Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
(a) Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority- the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority's Annual Report 1976-77 was not tabled within four months of the closing of accounts for 1976-77 financial year, but was tabled within four months of receipt of the Auditor-General 's report dated 1 0 February 1978. Reasons for the delay were: 
delay in receipt of Auditor-General 's report; 
printing delays; 
delay in preparing text. 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation- amendments to the Housing Loans Insurance Act in June 1977 necessitated a new form of accounts being approved by the Treasurer in terms of Section 39 ofthe Act. Because of this, the Auditor-General 's report on the accounts of the Corporation that is also called for under Section 39 could not be presented before the House of Representatives was dissolved on 10 November 1977. 
The comment in  Senator Messner  's question is self-evident and the fact that a telephone is not a luxury to many aged people is recognised in the existing concessions to which he referred. I will refer the question of additional concessions in respect of the installation of telephones to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for him to take up with Telecom. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Australian National Railways does not plan to remove its overhead telephone lines and associated poles from the road traffic bridge over the River Murray at Murray Bridge. As these lines were on the bridge when it was open they should be considered as contributing historical authenticity to the centenary of the bridge's opening. 
Australian National Railways will generally tidy its lands and the railway reserve area at Murray Bridge prior to March 1979, but it has no funds to cover major expenditure. 
I recall the honourable senator asking me a question on this matter last week. I indicated to him then that my experience was that complaints of this sort were dealt with with considerable sympathy by Telecom Australia. However, the honourable senator raises a quite disturbing example. I ask him to let me have the details of it so that I can examine the particular case which he has brought before us. With respect to the specific matters about which he asked at the end of his question, I state that I am not aware that the onus of proof in a strict sense is on the subscriber. As I understand it, Telecom carries out a check of equipment if there is a complaint of this sort. On the basis of that check, Telecom then agrees or disagrees with the challenge. I will, however, have a look at the - 
I can only say to the honourable senator that that is not my experience. I speak as someone who has had complaints brought to my attention by constituents in Western Australia. In any event the question whether strictly in the event of a continued dispute the onus of proof is on the subscriber is a matter that I would have to examine. I will do so and come back to the honourable senator on that point. 
Secondly, the honourable senator raises the point that this shows a new system is required. The information which the honourable senator places before the Senate and which he says is but one of many complaints indicates that there would be some value in having a different sort of accounting system. I outlined last week that Telecom had under study an automatic message accounting system which might meet some of these problems. I indicated then that a very high capital cost was involved in the introduction of that system. The third question dealt with whether there might be some sort of independent tribunal which could determine disputes between a subscriber and Telecom in the interim. That suggestion is quite novel to me. I will take it up with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and get a reaction to it. 
I am not in a position to say whether the Minister for Transport was correctly quoted in this morning's newspaper. I will have to ask the Minister about that and get a reply for the honourable senator. However, in respect of the questions raised by the honourable senator, 1 would have thought that the information provided to the Senate already by the Leader of the Government in the Senate probably indicates that Qantas Airways Ltd itself is not exercising any active discrimination against people within Australia. It does appear that some countries visited by Qantas and a number of other countries impose various restrictions on airlines using either their air space or their facilities. As I understood the answer given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, those restrictions are made known to people seeking to use the airline. With respect to what action might be taken, the Leader of the Government in the Senate also advised the Senate that the Government had asked that a study of this matter be made and for a report to be submitted to Ministers. The Government will be giving all these matters consideration. 
by leave- I wish to make a brief statement to give  Senator Keeffe  a second chance to apologise. 1 notice in yesterday's  Hansard  that, when reference was made to a visit to Meekatharra by me and  Senator Rocher, Senator Keeffe  is recorded to have interjected saying that we went to the races. Since we were there two days before the races to attend a meeting of pastoralists and graziers, I thought that  Senator Keeffe  might like to withdraw that interjection. 
The honourable senator asked a number of questions of detail to which I will have to seek a reply from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I can only point out to her that the Special Broadcasting Service is an independent statutory body and that, therefore, it has a right to organise its own administration in the manner which it believes to be the most effective. As I understand it, a great deal of discretion is left with the Special Broadcasting Service. I will refer the matters which have been raised by  Senator Ryan  to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and seek a reply from him. 
I was somewhat mystified when I understood that I was going to get a question about 'The Nut'. Indeed, most of the information in front of me seems to refer to matters which could be categorised under that word. I understand that The Nut is a prominent hill in Tasmania which is regarded to be of considerable significance to tourism. I understand that on a number of occasions my Department has been in consultation with the appropriate Tasmanian authorities concerning this issue. On 1 1 October the Tasmanian Minister for Environment, National Parks, Wild Life and Water Resources wrote to, I think, the Federal Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development regarding the future use and management of The Nut. Basically, the facts are that The Nut is a former telecommunications property and, as a commercial organisation, the telecommunications organisation is seeking current market value for the property. The Tasmanian Minister is seeking sympathetic consideration for the reversion of ownership of the property to the State without cost. Those representations are being considered and it is hoped that we will be in a position to make a decision in the near future. In fact, only yesterday I received a letter from the Minister and that letter is yet to be given proper consideration. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has made a series of quite serious allegations in his question. I have to say to him that I am not aware of any of the matters which he has raised. Indeed, I have seen no report or heard no suggestion that the situation is as he has outlined. Obviously the matter is very serious when the Leader of the Opposition raises it in that manner. I will refer it urgently to my colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, for his attention. 
I have not seen a call for a boycott of trade with South Australia on the part of anybody from the Northern Territory. But I have seen suggestions from South Australian Ministers that the Stuart Highway is in some peculiar way a responsibility of the Federal Government. The position is that the Commonwealth does see the development of that highway as a high priority and it is committed to it being reconstructed as soon as possible. The Federal Government has provided about $66m for national highway construction to South Australia in the last four years and this highway has not been given particularly high priority by the South Australian Government. I think in last year's national highways program South Australia did not include any construction work on the Stuart Highway. In fact the Federal Minister wrote to  Mr Virgo,  the State Transport Minister, expressing his concern and urging him to ensure that a substantial start was made on reconstruction of the highway in this year's program. 
The fact is that when the national highways program was submitted to the Federal Minister for Transport by  Mr Virgo  in May of this year there was a proposal to spend only about $270,000 on that section. It was the Federal Minister who suggested that additional funds be diverted to that project. I understand that that now has been done and the State Government of South Australia has agreed to spend some $900,000 on the commencement of that work. 
Yesterday, an honourable senator drew my attention to the New Products page in  Newsweek  which contained a report on the videostrobe. I am afraid that I did not give the matter quite the attention that I might have because the same page mentioned a machine which cost only $30 and which measured one 's emotional state. I thought that was an even more useful piece of machinery to purchase, perhaps for use in the Parliament. I am a little surprised at the suggestion by  Senator Bonner  that this machine costs $34,000. I suspect that if it costs $34,000 the prospect of making it available to every major sporting body is somewhat remote. I think the machine will be of interest to Australian athletes. No doubt, it will be of interest to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Groom.  I will draw the matters which have been raised by  Senator Bonner  to the Minister's attention to see whether there is any way that this machine can be used in Australia within the constraints of our policy with respect to sport. 
I am not in a position to give an unqualified assurance on every item of detail in the report in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper of yesterday. But my advice is that in general the comments contained in that report are correct. Having had another look at that article, I would say that one would want to qualify, perhaps, the first sentence, which suggests an immediacy which is not a fact. The article starts by stating: 
Qantas has acceded to a Syrian Government order that Jews be banned from the airline's weekly flights . . . 
I merely make the point that apparently that has been going on for some years, not fewer than five years. I certainly will undertake to seek from the Minister for Transport the detailed reply which is sought by the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator is correct in saying that APEX fares have just recently been extended to Darwin and that they are not available to other centres in the Northern Territory. They are not, of course, available to many other centres around Australia. I think that at the moment they are restricted to the six State capitals and Darwin. I will refer the matter that the honourable senator has raised to the Minister for Transport to see whether further extensions are possible. My understanding is that the present system is an experiment for the time being and that further extensions are likely to be on a staged basis. 
The honourable senator has drawn my attention to the fact that the Australian National Railways Commission is tendering Australia-wide for railway rolling stock. I can only say to him that, in light of the deficit that is suffered by the Australian National Railways Commission, it is extremely likely that it would be seeking the lowest tenders available for any work it was doing or for any items it wished to purchase. I can understand the honourable senator's concern for the Launceston railway workshops. I am not able to tell him whether there is any intention on the part of the Commission to reduce them to mere maintenance worshops. I will seek a reply for the honourable senator on that point. 
I have no knowledge of the statement by  Mr Sinclair  which is referred to by the honourable senator who might direct my attention more specifically to it after Question Time. Can I just say that I suspect that the delegations might have waited on the wrong government because it is, after all, the role of State governments to control most of these programs. The endless buck-passing which goes on with State governments complaining bitterly that the Federal Government ought to assume their responsibilities whenever it is convenient to do so is one of the most unfortunate aspects of the Australian Federation. I suggest that the very poor record of the State Government in making any allocation for the Stuart Highway is something of which the honourable senator ought to be well aware and, indeed, ought to be ashamed. I suggest that he make urgent representations to his State Labor colleagues in South Australia and suggest that they get on with the job. 
Earlier at Question Time today  Senator Bonner  raised with me a question about a videostrobe for use by sportsmen to pinpoint their flaws in performance. I am pleased to say that since he asked the question he has been able to reduce the price from $34,000 to $3,400. That 90 per cent reduction in price has greatly increased my interest in the matter he raised. 
I thank the Opposition for its speedy consideration of this Bill at the second reading stage. I wish to make a very brief comment on a couple of points that  Senator Grimes  raised. I accept that a case has been put in the House of Representatives and that there has been a response to it in that place. I was pleased to note that  Senator Grimes  accepts that times have changed and that the situation of people suffering from tuberculosis is different from what it was when the pension originated. However, I point out to him that I have noted his agreement that the benefit could be modified and his disagreement with its abolition. I simply say that this is not a Bill which abolishes the benefit. It is a Bill which simply modifies it in my view; the detail is well known and does not need to be gone into. The position is that the legislation was not introduced in 1977. There was a request made for time in which to make submissions; submissions were made to the Government and there were discussions going on until as late as May this year. It was only subsequent to those discussions that the Government determined to proceed with this matter. 
I acknowledge receipt of the questions from  Senator McLaren  and suggest to him, by way of a general reply, that it is not open to any Minister to promise that any situation will be permanent. A couple of the questions related to whether the position would exist for all time. I can say only that nothing is for all time. I will take the four specific questions he has asked to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  and undertake to give the honourable senator a written reply which he can then pass back to his constituent. There is nothing further I wish to add. I thank the Senate for its speedy consideration of the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The Government has decided not to proceed with the Housing Allowance Experiment. I refer the honourable senator to my news release of 28 June 1978. However, the Government will make available to any State Government completed documentation for the conduct of a housing allowance experiment, should they so wish. 
The total cost of work done on the Housing Allowance Experiment is $1,014,900, including $156,000 wind-down costs. 
A large range and volume of technical design and procedural papers were written for the Housing Allowance Experiment. An Information Paper on the Experiment was prepared and surveys of rental dwellings in Melbourne, Hobart, Launceston and other centres in Tasmania were undertaken. The results of these surveys will be published shortly. Any senator, or member, is welcome to look at the material available. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Government has no knowledge of any proposal for the purchase by foreign or other interests of real estate at Marina Plains Station for development as a tourist resort or as a possible area for mineral exploration. 
Not to my knowledge. 
No. 
Proposals by foreign interests to acquire Australian real estate are required, with certain exceptions, to be submitted for examination by the Foreign Investment Review Board, which advises the Government on foreign investment matters. These proposals are examined on their individual merits to see that they are not inconsistent with the criteria set out in the policy statement 
I will take that question on notice and seek an answer for the honourable senator. 
I indicate that when the Government's legislative program has been obtained on Thursday it is proposed to adjourn the Senate to enable Estimates committees A and C to meet. I anticipate that consideration of the Bills on the program will be concluded before dinner so the Committees will meet at or before 8 p.m. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Because of production difficulties experienced by the printer, it was not possible to deliver stocks to all philatelic post offices by the first day of issue. 
In New South Wales, all of the 155 philatelic post offices received some stamps but were under-supplied on the first day of issue. 
In Victoria, only four philatelic post offices- Bright, St Arnaud, Stawell and Yarrawonga- did not have supplies for sale on the first day of issue. 
In Queensland, only Yeppoon philatelic post office had not received supplies by the first day of issue. 
All other philatelic post offices were supplied with their full stamp requirements by the first day of issue. 
My understanding of this situation is that in fact there was a period during which the Syrian Government imposed the sort of restriction which was talked about in the Senate last week and reported in the  Age.  It is also my understanding that a booklet brought out by the International Air Transport Association which sets out the various restrictions which are imposed on airlines operating around the world until the present time also contains a statement indicating that that restriction still applies. As I understand it, Qantas operated on the understanding that that was the position with respect to airlines landing in Syria and that its belief that this was so ended only last week. So in fact Qantas was proceeding on that assumption. 
I think Qantas might well assert that it was not acquiescing but that while it was operating out of Syria it was subject to that disability. It appears that it was drawing that fact to the attention of passengers and pointing out that it would make it difficult, if not impossible, for them to fly on those flights. 
I am advised by the Minister for Transport that provided ships comply fully with international requirements as to construction, load line and safety matters, the Commonwealth Government has no power to prohibit them from entering Australian waters, so the short answer to the honourable member's question is no. I am further advised that there is no evidence known to the Department of Transport of vessels regularly visiting Australia having a record of disregarding international and Australian standards on oil pollution. Therefore, a need for the introduction of the legislation suggested by the honourable senator is not apparent. However, the Minister advises that if the situation were to change, the need to introduce such legislation would be closely examined. 
-I did not hear the news reports referred to in the question by the honourable senator, but subsequently I have heard reports that somebody is claiming to be the king, chief wizard or whatever the expression is of the Ku Klux Klan in the Northern Territory. I have further heard claims that he heads an enormous band of one; that he is not only the chief of the tribe but also all the indians too. It would be my hope that if there is someone supporting the Ku Klux Klan he would be doing it in a very solitary manner. The particular inquiries that the honourable senator has made about the ABC, I think, as he very properly suggests, should be referred to that organisation, and I will pass them on to the Minister with the suggestion that that be done. I point out that, when complaints of that sort are made about the ABC, the normal practice of the Minister is to refer them to the Commission for attention and investigation, and 
I think that would be the proper course in this case. 
-This is the third question which  Senator Townley  has asked in this area. It is clear from comments made by other honourable senators that it is a matter of some interest to them. I suppose it is a sign that they also have had complaints from constituents. I commend to honourable senators the reading of the  Hansard  record of the hearings of Estimates Committee F which had extensive evidence given to it about Telecom 's charging system. I think that will be of interest to honourable senators. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has said by way of interjection that there are 80,000 complaints a year. I can perhaps very briefly cover the evidence to which I have referred by saying that Telecom puts out approximately 10 million accounts a year. The evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee F was that approximately 80,000 of those accounts give rise to an inquiry about the account. The evidence went on to show that about 64,000 of those 80,000-1 am now converting percentages given by  Mr Banks  into figures- are cleaned up just by means of telephone inquiry, leaving about 16,000 which require more detailed examination. In percentage terms, that is not too bad a record. 
I shall now deal with the specific matters raised by  Senator Townley.  Under the by-laws under which Telecom operates, a power is granted to disconnect a subscriber's telephone when the subscriber has failed to pay rental service charges or other charges due within 1 4 days. That is the basis for any action of that kind. The second matter raised by  Senator Townley  was whether the Minister would request the waiving of the extra charges for operator connected calls until a proper accounting system of the sort outlined by  Senator Townley  is instituted. I think an extra charge of 60c is imposed for operator connected calls. That charge is very simply a charge related to the additional cost of putting a call through a manual switchboard in circumstances in which STD facilities are available. Although I will refer the request to the Minister, I suspect that, in light of the overall number of calls involved, it is a course which is unlikely to be followed. 
The third part of  Senator Townley  's question asked whether I thought most people are honest and do not complain unless they think that they have a good cause for complaint. I would have to say that I do think most people are honest. I have had one or two cases in relation to which I have had some doubts, but in the main I am sure that people who query genuinely feel that the bill is incorrect. The fourth request was that certain files should be tabled relating to charging systems for STD calls. Again, I can only refer that matter to the Minister for his attention. 
-On Thursday, 19 October, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  asked me a question about a hearing of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal which was held in Adelaide. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to that question: The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is the independent statutory authority charged with the responsibility to conduct public hearings and for licence grants and renewal applications under the Broadcasting and Television Act. Under the Act the conduct of public hearings is a matter entirely for the Tribunal. The Minister has no power to intervene in or to direct the Tribunal on the conduct of public hearings. The Minister would not wish to comment on any matter which is presently the subject of an inquiry by the Tribunal. 
I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bills. The only comment I intended to make was the comment on which  Senator Walsh  concluded; namely, that these were among the first Bills to go to Legislation committees in the House of Representatives. One Bill has received detailed consideration already. I do not think any further comment is required. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I wish to respond very briefly to the matters raised by  Senator Mulvihill  in the adjournment debate. They are yet another example of  Senator Mulvihill  trying to provide assistance for people whom he sees as being in difficulties. In this case, as I understood what he was saying, he was not arguing that  Mr Arroyo  should not be deported. It does seem to be a case in relation to which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is acting quite properly.  Mr Arroyo  came to this country on a temporary visa as a visitor. When he entered the country he signed an undertaking that he would not seek to remain in Australia, that he would not engage in employment in Australia and that he would leave Australia on the expiration of his authorised stay. He has broken those undertakings, and the decision of the Minister certainly appears to be justified in this case. 

 Senator Mulvihill has really raised a principle of difficulty which is faced by  Mr Arroyo  and apparently by other people who it is alleged are being exploited by people who claim to be able to influence the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I will, of course, refer the comments of  Senator Mulvihill  to  Mr MacKellar  as well as the request that something be done to get back the $500 from the solicitors to whom it is alleged he paid that amount of money. 
I seek also to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this matter has been one of concern for some time. In fact as long ago as 16 May 1977  Mr MacKellar  issued a statement in which he warned prohibited immigrants that they would be satisfactorily dealt with if they approached the Department directly as opposed to using intermediaries who claimed to be able to influence the Department. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that statement of 16 May 1977. 1 have shown it to  Senator Button,  and he has no objection to its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 16 May 1977 
EXPLOITATION OF PROHIBITED IMMIGRANTS 
Migrants and would-be migrants are amongst the most vulnerable elements in our community', the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the  Hon.  M. J. R. MacKella  said today. 
They should be very wary of groups charging high membership fees or otherwise requesting 'subscriptions' who claim to have special influence with the Department, ' 

 Mr MacKellar was commenting on press reports of the Sydney Central Methodist Mission Rally on Sunday, 15 May. 

 Mr MacKellar said that it is unfortunately true that there are people within the community who are prepared to exploit the vulnerability of migrants and their unfamiliarity with immigration laws and procedures. 
At least one body which receives substantial contributions from its 'clients' continually makes representations on behalf of visitors, some of who have become prohibited immigrants by overstaying their authorised period of entry. 
These cases receive exactly the same consideration in the Department as those in which the people concerned approach the Department directly. The body concerned has absolutely no influence and in some cases appears to have done nothing more for the fees it charges than raise false hopes amongst people who did not meet the criteria for migrant entry or change of status 
Because there is a percentage of visitors who do meet family reunion or occupational criteria which make them eligible for migrant status- and would be eligible for it if they applied themselves- this body is able to imply that it has been successful in influencing the Department's decision.' 
Unfortunately, this kind of operation does not appear to be illegal,  Mr MacKellar  said, 'and lean only counsel people with immigration problems to contact my Department rather than pay money to organisations that make spurious claims about their ability to influence departmental decisions. ' 
I note that it has been claimed that certain solicitors have charged large amounts for services related to immigration. People who believe this to be the case- should provide the facts to the Law Society in their State of residence. ' 
-The only other point I make is to draw the attention of the Senate to the concluding point made in  Mr MacKellar's  Press release. In cases where there are allegations of solicitors charging for services of this sort and allegations of impropriety,  Mr MacKellar  urges that these facts be drawn to the attention of the Law Society in the particular State. I believe that is a course of action which ought to be encouraged so that any impropriety on the part of solicitors can be dealt with by that body. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In accordance with section 68 ( 1 ) of the Broadcasting and Television Act an amount of $140,518,000 was paid to the Australian Broadcasting Commission during 1977-78. Details of actual expenditure by the Commission, which amounted to $ 1 40,5 1 8,0 1 8 for the year ended 30 June 1978, are given on pages 228-230 of Budget Document No. 4. 
Charges for depreciation and interest on capital are not recorded in the accounts of the Commission. The accounts and the financial statements required to be presented in the annual report of the Commission reflect receipts and payments (cash flows) rather than income and expenditure accruals, the latter being appropriate to commercial business undertakings. 
The concept of 'funds invested ' is not compatible with the cash flow accounting of the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The public statement of 1 June 1978 by the Acting Chairman of the Australian Postal Commission, outlined the main impact on the finances of Australia Post of the increase in postal rates which operated from 1 July 1978. That statement, read in conjunction with the Commission's 'Service and Business Outlook for 1978-79' which has been tabled in the Parliament provides the relevant information referred to in the question. I believe that the information available from these sources compiles with the spirit and intention of the Freedom of Information Bill now before the Parliament. 
If postal charges had not been increased, Australia Post estimated a trading deficit in 1978-79 of the order of $40m. 
Applying the official assumptions on trends in inflation and forecasts relating to use of its services during 1978-79, the Postal Commission estimated a trading deficit of approximately $5m for the current financial year. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer for the honourable senator's question: 
Payments made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission for rights and facilities to the 1976 Olympic Games were shared equally with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the net cost to the Commission was $2 1 5 , 1 3 1 . 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission was unsuccessful in its attempt to obtain television rights for the 1 980 Olympic Games in Moscow. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
New South Wales- 1 975 Nil; 1976 Nil; 1977 Nil. 
Victoria- 1975 (i) 4 Wright Street, Essendon; (ii) 'Jungai' Rubicon Road, Thornton; (iii) Staff House, Rubicon Road, Thornton; (iv) 'Lionel Rose Centre', Buckley Street, Morwell; (v) 160-162 Mary Street, Morwell; (vi) 31 Chestnut Avenue, Morwell; (vii) 104 Day Street, Bairnsdale; (viii) 12 King George Parade, Dandenong; 1976 Nil; 1977 Nil. 
Queensland- 1975 Nil; 1976 (i) 13 Mclntyre Street, Mount Isa; (ii) 9 Walton Avenue, Mount Isa; 1977 (i) 16 Nancy Street, Yorkey's Knob, Cairns; (ii) 8 Margo Street, Yorkey's Knob, Cairns; (iii) 5 Walton Avenue, Mount Isa; (iv) Lots 1-7, RP27496, Chester Street, Thursday Island; (v) Part Transferred Property No. 188, Summers Street, Thursday Island. 
South Australia- 1975 Nil; 1976 Nil; 1977 Nil. 
Western Australia- 1 975 (i) Lot 954, Kabbarli Street, Wyndham; (ii) Lot 76, 35 Archer Street, Geraldton; (iii) Lot R1332, 141 Campbell Street, Kalgoorlie; (iv) Lot 53, 33 Hough Street, Narrogin; 1976 (i) Lot 2558, De March Road, South Hedland; (ii) Lot 2660, Limpet Crescent, South Hedland; 1977 Lot R1 168, 10 Edgar Street, Kalgoorlie. 
New South Wales-Not applicable. 
Victoria- 1975 (i) to (viii) In each case the former owner was the Victorian State Minister Administering the Aboriginal Affairs Act 1967. 
Queensland- 1975 Not applicable; 1976 (i) C. and N. Tubman; (ii) C. and N. Tubman; 1977 (i) Watkins Ltd; (ii) James Sheppard; (iii) C. and N. Tubman; (iv) Department of Defence (Army Office); (v) Department of Defence (Army Office). 
South Australia- Not applicable. 
Western Australia- 1 975 (i) Shell Company of Australia; (ii) J. L. and D. M. Sheldon; (iii) K. N. and J. M. Scott; (iv) G. Anza; 1976 (i) State Housing Commission; (ii) State Housing Commission; 1 977 M. D. and D. S. . Yujnovich 
New South Wales- Not applicable. 
Victoria- 1975 (i) to (viii) In each case the properties were transferred at no cost to the Commonwealth. 
Queensland- 1976 (i) $33,100; (ii) $32,800; 1977 (i) $24,665; (ii) $24,665; (iii) $27,005; (iv) $28,000; (v) $4,000. 
South Australia- Not applicable. 
Western Australia- 19 75 (i) $26,500; (u) $20,000; (iii) $23,000; (iv) $21,500. 1976 (i) $4,850; (ii) $4,850; 1977 $32,250. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
New South Wales-Not applicable. 
Victoria- 1975 (i) Family group home; (ii) Campsite complex; (iii) Staff quarters for 'Camp Jungai'; (iv) Boys hostel together with office accommodation; (v) Girls hostel; (vi) Departmental residence; (viii) Hostel for Secondary School Students; (viii) Boarding House for Young Workmen. 
Queensland-1975 Not applicable; 1976 (i) Staff residence; (ii) Staff residence; 1977 (i) Staff residence; (ii) Staff residence; (iii) Staff residence; (iv) Staff residence sites (seven); (v) Site for office accommodation. 
South Australia- Not applicable. 
Western Australia- 1975 (i) Residential accommodation; (ii) Residential accommodation; (iii) Residential accommodation; (iv) Residential accommodation; 1976 (i) Site for residence; (ii) Site for residence; 1977 Residential accommodation. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The entitlements of holders of a Commonwealth life gold pass are as determined from time to time by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
The current entitlements are set out in clause 6 of Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1978-9. 
-The article to which the honourable senator referred in his question was mentioned to me and I have seen it. The article points out that the survey was commissioned by the study group on structural adjustment. The report has to be looked at against the specific aims with which it was commissioned. It is not a report on the whole of the clothing industry; it is really a very narrow report. The aim of the survey was to look at the aspects of structural adjustment, the perspective of the unemployed and the experiences of those people who had been retrenched. The survey covered the experiences of 60 people who had been retrenched from four small firms in the inner and western suburbs of Sydney, which were nominated by a clothing trade union. The report on the survey acknowledges that it could not even be said that the sample is representative of the clothing trades industry. In fact, a significant proportion of the workers who were surveyed had been retrenched from a single firm which closed down in 1 976. 
The report is one item of input- I stress that it is only one piece of input- against a large body of evidence and submissions that have been placed before the study group. How the study group uses the report is a matter for its judgment. I am sure that it will take into account the acknowledged unrepresentative nature of the sample on which the report is based. In a policy statement in August 1977 the Government made it clear that it regards an efficient clothing sector along with textiles and footwear as important and continuing parts of Australia's manufacturing industry. With the aim of maintaining activity and employment levels in these industries, import quotas will continue to apply up to mid- 1980 as the central element in a three-year assistance program. 
The honourable senator also asked me to take up the matter with the editor of the  Age.  I am quite happy to refer a copy of the question and a copy of the reply to the  Age.  I am very taken by its propensity to print the headline 'We Were Wrong' and put under that headline an explanation where it believes that is the case. I am sure it will examine the article and the information which I have put before the Senate and take appropriate action. 
I acknowledge the developing enthusiasm for public broadcasting that has been referred to by the honourable senator. I do not know whether any decision has been made on it and will seek from the Minister information as to whether test broadcasts can be made available. 
It seems to me that it is entirely appropriate that a scheme which is aimed at preventing our dwindling national heritage from disappearing should cover the River Torrens. I am advised by the appropriate Minister that in fact a nomination was received for a section of the River Torrens in March 1977. That nomination, which was received from the South Australian Department of Environment and which was prepared by the State Government River Torrens Committee, set out the relevant areas to be preserved, namely, the riverbed and bank from source to mouth but excluding the section of the river in the City of Adelaide. The proposed area included the adjacent land to a distance of 60 metres from each bank. 
The Commission then proceeded to deal with the matter in the normal way and advertised its intention to enter the Torrens River, subject to the exclusion, on the register of the national estate. This was advertised in the Adelaide  Advertiser  and the  Australian  newspapers on 2 1 June 1977. However, subsequently the South Australian Government, in a letter to the Commission dated 7 September 1 977, requested that the time for lodging objections be extended and that the River Torrens not be included on the register pending a review of the application by the Government. As yet, there has not been any formal response to that letter; but, as I understand it, the Commission has been requested to defer consideration of the whole matter. However, I have no advice on whether there is any coincidence between a route for a tramway and the area that was to be included on the register of the National Estate. I will seek advice on those matters that were raised by  Senator Messner  and let him have a further reply. 
I think that is an excellent question because in fact that is precisely what the Commonwealth is doing. I cannot give the honourable senator exact figures but over the last couple of years there has been a substantial move from six cylinder to four cylinder vehicles. A large number of self-drive vehicles in use in Canberra are of the four cylinder type. I will get more detail and make it available to the honourable senator so that he can see the trend and follow it up further if he wishes. 
My very passing knowledge of psychology indicates to me that I will have to be very careful not to answer a question relating to STD telephone calls. I ha,ve had a great deal of conditioning on this matter from  Senator Townley  over the last couple of weeks. Turning my mind to the question that  Senator Townley  has put before me, it is true that he has taken a great interest over quite a considerable period in the upgrading of the Hobart Airport. I know that late last year  Mr Nixon  wrote to him with a great deal of information about the problems with respect to that airport. As to the use of the airport for DC8 aircraft and the further matters which the honourable senator has raised, I could not provide him with the information immediately. I will have to seek a reply from the Minister for Transport. 
The second part of the question asked whether the Minister will set up an investigation team to look at all aspects of a new runway. My understanding is that the present airport is quite satisfactory and quite adequate for present domestic services. Therefore there would be no justification on safety grounds for providing a new runway to meet existing needs. That is a matter which may need to be looked at in the light of the other matters which have been raised by  Senator Townley. 
I think that the short answer to  Senator Lewis's  question is that if the profits were paid to consolidated revenue the whole body of taxpayers would receive benefits from charges levied on those who are using Telecom services. At least the present system ensures that those who are paying for the services reap the benefit. I assume that  Senator Lewis  appreciates that Telecom is required by its governing legislation to provide from internal sources, which include trading profit, at least 50 per cent of its capital funds in any one financial year. The profit level to be achieved in any year is dependent on government funding decisions which are taken in the Budget context, and which include approval of the level of borrowings from the semi-government loan market. I do not consider that the Telecom profit could be regarded in any way as a tax on subscribers. The requirement that Telecom return a trading profit does in fact involve present subscribers contributing towards the cost of the development of the network which is available to them. 
The suggestion that, instead of making a profit, Telecom should borrow an equivalent amount from the local loan market raises a range of important issues. The approved borrowings on that market for the Commission this year total $190m.  Senator Lewis  is suggesting that these borrowings should be roughly doubled to about $3 80m. This would have a severe effect on semigovernment authority borrowings generally. Many other authorities, both local government and State government, seek to raise significant capital borrowings on the loan market each year. If Telecom doubled its presence in the loan market it could in fact be denying funds to other instrumentalities for their capital needs. I do not believe that telephone subscribers should be equated with the public generally. Whilst six out of ten homes now have a telephone service, many people do not have a private telephone service. 1 think that my introduction adequately dealt with the last point raised. So the answer to  Senator Lewis  is: No, I do not agree. 
I am being told from behind me that that is totally incorrect. I must say that it seems inherently improbable that the Government would permit that situation to arise. However, I do not have detailed information from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I will refer  Senator Primmer's  question to him and get a more detailed reply. 
-The Minister for Transport has assured me that no Government decisions have been taken in relation to the site of the new ANR terminal in Alice Springs. The matter is still under study and there will be full consultation between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of the Northern Territory. The views expressed by Australian National Railways at this stage represent the Railways own point of view, based on its managerial responsibility to operate on a commercial basis. With respect to extension of the new line north of Alice Springs to Darwin, I have no information on that and I will have to seek it from the Minister. 
I understand from information I have received from the Minister for Transport's office that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd has not yet made the September repayment under the scheme of arrangement. I further understand that the airlines involved in the arrangement have the matter under consideration. I do not know whether they have agreed to waive the September payment. That is a matter which would be decided by the creditors, that is the airlines, and not by the Commonwealth Government. The total amount which AUS Student Travel would have repaid to its creditors since December 1977, if it has made the arranged payments, would be $635,104. It is not known how much has been repaid to creditors other than Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd. The payments to those airlines up to September have been $54,007 and $29,718 respectively. 
-Neither of the Ministers to whom the question was addressed seems anxious to pick up the ball but I think the matter probably comes within the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. My understanding is that it is difficult to enter into arrangements on a State by State basis because of the Australia-wide nature of the whole vehicle industry. I further understand that this matter is under review by the various States. I would have thought that unless there was agreement it would not be possible to move on to a next stage. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport and get a specific reply for the honourable senator. 
We have just heard a speech from  Senator Ryan  which expressed considerable concern about the state of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and, perhaps more importantly, the prospective state of the ABC. A good deal of what  Senator Ryan  spoke about in the last five minutes or so of her speech, particularly when she was quoting  Mr White  and  Mr Mackriell,  was referable to what the position might be in the event of further staff cuts. I will come back to that matter a little later. 
The fact that the Opposition is concerned about the ABC is a matter of which I heartily approve and of which the Government would heartily approve. I use the word 'concerned' in the sense that the Opposition ought to be interested in the welfare and standards of the ABC. But I think that it is true to say that practically everybody in Australia has concern about the state of the ABC. I do not wish to be misunderstood in using that expression. I think everybody in Australia has an interest in the ABC. It is a very great national organisation, it is an organisation which affects the lives of most Australians and it is an organisation which receives very substantial payments from the taxpayers. The payments this year are of the order of $ 1 40m. That is a substantial amount of money in anybody's language. The importance of the service provided by the ABC is that it extends nationwide. The ABC is really the only truly national media organisation. It provides news services which are very much a part of most of our lives. It provides services in the country and in the city. Wherever I go in Australia I find that it is held in very high regard. So I welcome the opportunity for the Senate to consider what has been put forward by 

 Senator Ryan, namely, the proposition that disruption has been caused to it. 
No apology needs to be made for subjecting the Australian Broadcasting Commission to the same sort of disciplines as have been imposed on other areas of government and the provision of services. Other statutory corporations, such as Telecom Australia and the Australian Postal Commission, have similarly been put under stiff staff ceiling requirements and they, of course, have given rise to some difficulties. But I would suspect- in fact, I know- that many people in the Australian community believe that in many areas of government and in many areas of the provision of services by independent commissions there are areas of waste. It is important that those bodies which are not subjected to the normal commercial factors which lead to efficiency are subjected to some financial disciplines. I do not believe that the Government has to apologise for imposing some discipline on the ABC and I do not believe it has to be apologetic to the Australian community for doing so. 
The fact of the matter is that the ABC is continuing to receive increasing amounts of finance year by year, although it is true that if we simply apply a gross inflation rate to those figures there has been some drop in the real amount allocated. It is also true that the number of people employed by the ABC has declined. Again, 1 do not think that that is a matter of critical importance. Let us look at the matters which were specifically referred to by  Senator Ryan  in her closing words. It is fairly important to stress what  Mr White  and  Mr Mackriell  said when they were commenting on ho,w bad things might be.  Mr White  said: 
The prospect of further reductions in staff will have a very marked effect on the ABC television's capacity to produce . . . 
He was talking about the prospect of further reductions taking place from now.  Mr Mackriell  said that he had been told by the head of the Radio Public Affairs Department that if his Department were to be significantly eroded he would experience difficulties. I emphasise the words 'if his Department were to be significantly eroded'. What is the position with respect to staff ceilings? The truth of the matter is-  Senator Ryan  did not bother to quote this-that as recorded on the same page of the  Hansard  record I gave some information to Estimates Committee F about that fact. I pointed out that when the staff ceiling was fixed for June the Government approved a September review of the Commission's staff ceiling. I informed the Committee that that review had taken place and that the Commission, had made a recommendation to the Government. That recommendation is still under consideration. This is a situation where the Commission, in fact, has done what  Senator Ryan  has claimed it was not doing. It has come forward and acted on behalf of the ABC.  Senator Ryan  during her speech said the Commission had not insisted on its rights. The Commission has requested a review of its staff ceilings by the Government. That review has taken place. A decision is yet to be made by the Government. In the circumstances I think that this is an appropriate time for this debate to take place. The concern expressed by  Senator Ryan  can no doubt be drawn to the attention of the Government, and that will be done by me. It is simply not true to state, as  Senator Ryan  did, that the Commission has not played its role. It has done so. That fact was before the Estimates Committee and is before the Senate today. 
I really am fascinated by  Senator Ryan's  suggestion that the Commission is unrepresentative. It seems to me that the Australian Broadcasting Commission contains a pretty diverse and representative selection of Australians. I do not know all of the commissioners.  Senator Ryan  may know them all. What I know of them suggests to me that the present commissioners are at least as representative, or perhaps even more representative, of the Australian community than those they replaced.  Senator Ryan  has acknowledged that the Commission has two representatives of trade unions, although she seems to think that they are not as representative as they might be because they voted in a way she did not approve of in respect of meeting a delegation of staff. I suggest that that is a matter upon which the commissioners are entitled to make up their own minds. It is interesting that  Senator Ryan  drew to our attention that they were not representatives of capitalism or of any other interests but two trade unionists who voted in that way. 
The Commission also has three businessmen on it. I would have thought that that was an extremely valuable quality to bring to the Commission which has $ 140m to spend and which it should spend efficiently. The Commission also has two women on it, Professor Kramer and  Mrs Roe.  We did not hear from  Senator Ryan  whether she thinks those women are unrepresentative and not fit to be on the Commission. A number of academics are on the Commission. We do not know whether they are regarded as not being fit to be on it. I was pleased to see that  Senator Ryan  committed herself with respect to the recently appointed commissioners who I would have thought could be held up in any company as being people not of any particular bias and people thought of in the community to be representative of the sort of interests which are catered for by the ABC. Again, I do not know all of the new appointees. I know  Mr Herb  Elliott of Perth who had a very notable sporting career and who has followed it by a successful academic and business career. I think that he now works for the State Government Insurance Office in Perth. This fits him perfectly to understand an important element of the audience for which the ABC caters. Whilst anyone who has played squash with me here would realise that my sporting attributes are rather limited, I regard the sporting service provided by the ABC as very significant. I would have thought that  Mr Elliott  was a fine addition to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and that  Mr Tribe,  with his association with music- he is the  President  of Musica Viva in Australia- was very much the sort of interest which the Opposition wanted represented on the Commission. 
It is very interesting that the Opposition apparently has no criticism of anybody. Nobody except the two trade union representatives has been specifically criticised. It seems that  Mr Short  and his trade union colleague are in some way not representative and not fit to be on the Commission.  Senator Ryan  keeps protesting that the people I name are satisfactory, representative and the sort of people who ought to be on the Commission. I am pleased to accept her judgment. 
The point I make to the Senate is that the group of people on the ABC have st atutory authority. They are in a position where they can exercise authority. They do, in fact, exercise it. Unless the Labor Party can indicate that in some way some of these people are not fit for the office to which they have been appointed, I think it must be conceded that the Opposition is merely window-dressing to match the strike which is going on today because  Mr Marius  Webb has not been reappointed. I will be interested to hear whether  Senator Button,  who will be following me in this debate, regards  Mr Marius  Webb as in some peculiar way being more representative of the community that the ABC is supposed to serve and which owns the Australian Broadcasting Commission than  Mr David  Williamson,  Mr Elliott  or  Mr Ken  Tribe. 
What apparently exercised the staff into having a strike today and what apparently exercised the Opposition into bringing forward this matter of public importance is the fact that a staff elected commissioner has not been reappointed by the present Government. In fact the one staff elected commissioner,  Mr Marius  Webb, was appointed by the previous Government. The Opposition spokesman has very kindly outlined the position of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  with respect to a staff elected Commissioner. The Minister has thrown the ball back to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and suggested that it should bring forward a suggestion which it thinks is appropriate. It is important to distinguish between the concept that there be some trade union representation on the Commission, a principle which the Government accepts, and that the staff itself should be represented on the Commission. In my view the two positions are quite distinguishable. The staff has no particular property in the Commission. The Australian community is no better represented by a staff member than it is by some other suitably qualified person. I believe that we are better off without a staff appointed commissioner because of the potential for conflict of interest by a person who is appointed from the staff as compared with a person who is appointed from outside. 
A number of other specific matters were raised by  Senator Ryan.  She referred, for example, to the lack of frequency modulation radio in Western Australia. She asked for some comment to be made on that matter during the course of this debate. It is true that some people in Western Australian would like to have FM facilities. Other people in Western Australia would see that as not having priority for the extension of ABC services within that State and particularly in the non-metropolitan area. Considerable complaints are made in some areas because only one ABC service is available. If the decision were mine, which it is not, my inclination probably would be to favour the extension of services to those remote areas as against the provision of FM services in Perth. Having said that as a personal viewpoint, the fact of the matter is that a threeyear program has been devised for the extension of FM radio in Australia. Within that three-year program it is planned that FM radio will be available in all States. An existing program proposes the provision of FM radio in Perth. 
The general allegation which  Senator Ryan  made that in some way the Government was seeking to impose on the ABC a limit on its ability to criticise and comment on the Government is, in my view, wrong. I believe the allegation can be judged as wrong by those who listen to the ABC. I have often admitted that my own chief sources of current news information are the news service and current affairs programs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I thought they were generally recognised as being of a very high standard. I have not very often listened to them and thought that they were showing any particular bias towards the Government. I would have thought that a careful listening to  AM, PM  and other programs would have satisfied the most ardent Labor Party supporter that a considerable amount of criticism was made of the Government. The fact that  Senator Ryan  shakes her head merely tends to illustrate that the way one listens to the radio and the effect it has is very much coloured by one's political outlook. 
Of course I am. I am suggesting that all of us suffer from that problem in assessing just what the bias is. I often talk to people who say, for example, that  Broadband  is full of nothing but anti-government propaganda. I think it was described by Paddy McGuinness as being predominately Marxist in its outlook and in what it put forward over the radio. 
Seantor CHANEY-Senator Button makes the point perfectly when he claims that it is a very thoughtful program because it is antigovernment. The simple fact of the matter is that for politicians to try to assess the bias or otherwise of the ABC is something of a joke because I do not believe that any of us, not even  Senator Chipp,  would be capable of making a truly objective assessment of the news service. I am sure that if they pick him on a bad day, broadcast his comments on a bad day and follow with some unkind comment he is hurt. I am sure that even  Senator Button  is hurt if the ABC transmits some unkind comment about him. But my assessment, biased as it is and biased as  Senator Ryan's  assessment is, is that the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to the best of its ability, presents news fairly and makes a fair attempt to provide a balance of views in its public affairs program. 1 do not believe that an attack by the Opposition on the Australian Broadcasting Commission, claiming that it is a creature of this Government, is a credible attack. I do not believe that the Opposition can sustain that stance. The listening audience of the ABC, which is a great number of Australians, simply knows that that claim is not in accord with the facts. They listen to the programs. They hear them. They hear the Government criticised, they hear the Opposition criticised and they know that there is a fair degree of balance. 
The general allegation that the present Commission has not insisted on its rights, that it is not representative and that it will not stand up to the Government is an allegation which has not been supported by any factual presentation by  Senator Ryan.  It is simply not sustainable and the Government rejects it. I think that it is unfortunate that we should have to deal with the ABC in the manner in which we have in this debate. I believe that it is an institution which both the Government and the Opposition wish to see continue. I have said before in the Senate that long after all of us are gone- even  Senator Button,  who looks almost as if he is a permanent fixture on the Opposition benches- the ABC will still be here. I would have thought that the sort of discussion that we had during the hearings of Estimates Committee F was a far more useful contribution to improving the position of the ABC than this debate this afternoon is likely to be. As little passages of the transcript of those proceedings have been read to the Senate, I commend the study of the whole transcript to any honourable senator who is interested in the Australian Broadcasting Commission because I believe that most honourable senators will be heartened by the fact that  Mr Mackriell,  for example, defended the standard of news presentation or the ability of the ABC to continue to present news, notwithstanding staff ceilings and so on. I refer honourable senators to page 755 of the  Hansard  transcript of the Estimates Committee's hearings on 19 October 1978.  Mr Mackriell  is recorded as saying: 
. it is very difficult for anybody, I believe, to put a tape measure against it. If I were pressed I would say that I think it has not deteriorated to any marked extent. 
The overall balance of the evidence which was given before the Estimates Committee, in my view, clearly shows that the ABC, although in common with other areas which are funded by government is facing difficulties in ensuring the maintenance of services under staff ceilings and with the limited increase in its annual budget, is continuing to provide the very valuable national service that it has always provided, and it will continue to do so, notwithstanding the predictions of  Senator Ryan. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
After the 1977 federal elections the Divisional Returning Officer for Fisher, in accordance with the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the Electoral and Referendum Regulations, notified  Dr W.  L. Fowles that he appeared to have failed to vote at the election and asked him to state his reasons why he so failed to vote. 

 Dr Fowles, on 24 February 1978, replied to the notice. The Divisional Returning Officer did not consider that  Dr Fowles'  reasons for not voting were valid and sufficient in terms of the legislation and he forwarded a further notice to  Dr Fowles  advising him of that fact and advising him that he could have the question of his failure to vote determined by the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland or by a court of summary jurisdiction. He further advised  Dr Fowles  that if he consented to the matter being dealt with by the Australian Electoral Officer, he should sign the appropriate form of consent and return it to the Divisional Returning Officer with the sum of $2 which would be appropriated in payment or in part payment of any penalty that the Australian Electoral Officer might impose.  Dr Fowles  did not reply to this notice. 
The question of instituting legal proceedings against  Dr Fowles  was referred to the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland who, having regard to all of the circumstances, has directed the Divisional Returning Officer for Fisher not to institute proceedings against  Dr Fowles  for his failure to vote. 
Free Market in Uranium 
I advise the Senate that I intend to be extremely selective in the ways in which I emulate  Sir John  Gorton. With respect to the matter that has been raised by the honourable senator, the position is that in the last couple of days I have written to the State Minister saying that there should be talks shortly. I will go back through the correspondence and see that information is made available to the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974 I present the annual statement on the operation of that Act during the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the yearended30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942,I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report and financial statements of the 
Australian Shippers Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I do not know whether a submission in the particular terms that were suggested by the honourable senator has been made to the Government, but I know that the Australian National Railways has been given the duty of recommending what ought to be done with respect to the railways generally in South Australia and Tasmania. The honourable senator very kindly referred me to a question that was asked of the Minister for Transport in the House of Representatives on 1 8 October. 1 would refer the honourable senator to another question which was asked of the Minister on 1 7 August 1978. 1 understand that the rather more extensive answer that was given by the Minister on that date still applies. The particular railway line will not be closed until the Alice SpringsTarcoola railway line is completed. In the Minister's answer he gives a great deal more detailed comment which I will not repeat here. I do not think  Senator Bishop  would wish me to repeat a lot of it here because it relates to the State Minister's floating of scare stories which, in the view of the Minister for Transport, are without foundation. 
-I think it is fair to say that the statement is preliminary in the sense that it requires further action. The statement indicated that negotiations would flow from the time of making the statement aimed at establishing new fare scales on a completely different basis. It is true, as the honourable senator has said, that what is proposed is that lower fares should be available on a regular basis without the need to have extensive booking ahead. The Government is endeavouring to cater for all the different types of traveller. Some travellers need immediate access to high quality travel; some are prepared to book ahead and accept a lower standard of travel. The general scheme which has been put forward by the Minister for Transport proposes that all classes of traveller shall be adequately catered for. 
I think the Minister for Transport quite recently has made a substantial declaration about what is to be done concerning fares. As  Senator MacGibbon  indicated in his question and I hope I confirmed in my reply, following the statement there have to be negotiations on a bilateral basis with a view to establishing the actual fare scales. However, the Minister in his statement has given an indication of the sort of figures which will be achieved on the route which is being given priority for consideration, namely, the United Kingdom route. I do not think I can usefully add anything to what has already been said in answer to the previous question and to what is contained in the statement made by the Minister for Transport. 
In the light of all the hear, hears I want to say that I agree with the general thrust of the honourable senator's question. A whole series of questions was asked by  Senator Hamer.  Yes, it is true that we are one of a relatively small number of countries in the world that has an indigenous car industry. I agree with him that it is better to use Australian vehicles and that is in fact the Government 's policy in this area. I am not prepared to say whether any particular vehicle is adequate but I would have thought that there was a range of vehicles adequate for the use of ambassadors, high commissioners and similar persons. There are a number of vehicles which I am sure would be adequate. The only knowledge I have of the Dublin situation which was outlined by  Senator Hamer  is that I have been advised by a relatively unreliable Victorian I know that that is the case. I would have to check that to make sure that it is correct. 
As I said earlier in answer to this question, it is in fact the policy of the Government- I think it has been the policy of governments for some time now- to supply an Australian-made vehicle wherever it is regarded as practicable and feasible to do so. On quite a number of occasions it is apparently found not to be practicable and feasible on the basis that either spare parts or servicing are not available, that, because of the comparative rarity of the vehicle, the resale value will be low, or that the country concerned has left hand drive. So a number of considerations are taken into account. 
In February of this year our mission in Jamaica did take delivery of a new Volvo as a replacement of the Ford LTD which had been used by the High Commissioner. One of the factors taken into account was the recent restrictions imposed by the Jamaican authorities on engine capacity. There are difficulties with respect to vehicles which have an engine capacity of more than three litres. Although the High Commission could seek an exemption from that restriction, resale of such a vehicle would be difficult. Apparently the Volvo is used widely in government ministries throughout Jamaica and spare parts are readily available. There were difficulties in servicing and obtaining parts for the previously owned Ford. The purchase price of the Volvo was $9,321, and although quotes were not obtained from Australian manufacturers, experience indicates that the cost of supplying a Ford or Holden would have been at least 10 per cent higher. 
This is an area where I am not satisfied with our administration of the policy. Quite honestly, I think that in some situations there are great temptations to find good reasons for buying a foreign vehicle rather than an Australian-made vehicle. In those circumstances I have asked for a review of the situation by my Department and I intend to consider the rules to see whether they are adequate to safeguard Australian interests. I agree with  Senator Hamer  that there is a lot to be said for Australian vehicle* being on show at our diplomatic missions overseas. 
I do not have any precise information on the matter which has been raised by  Senator Messner.  Earlier some questions were asked in the Senate about the re-use of rail with respect to some other rail lying, I think, in South Australia. It seems to me to be fairly clear that the Australian national railway system is being administered with a proper sense of not disposing of materials which can be used elsewhere. So my suspicion would be that the rail is being sent out because it is not regarded as suitable for future use in Australia; but I will check on that answer. 
I am sorry, I said that that was my .suspicion in the matter, but I will have to check on that with the Minister for Transport and get a firm reply for the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the review of domestic air transport policy, parts one and two. Due to the limited number available, copies of this review have been placed in the records office, the Bills and Papers Office and the Parliamentary Library. Arrangements are being made for a consolidated version of parts one and two to be tabled as soon as possible so that all honourable senators may be provided with a copy. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941 I present reports of the activities carried out under the Act for the years ended 30 June 1 976 and 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable senators, pursuant to section 25 of the Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on Special Assistance for States 1978. 
I understand that recently the Government has extended the amount of competition available at airports in terms of hire car services. I will refer the precise facts stated by the honourable senator to the Minister for Transport and get a reply from him. 
I will seek a reply to the detailed question asked by the honourable senator and let her have it. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'National Highway Linking Hobart, Launceston and Burnie: Appraisal of Penguin to Burnie Section, 1978'. 
I am sure that the Government is aware how important the rural services of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are to country audiences. I have seen reports of the sort referred to by the honourable senator. I have no doubt that they have been drawn to the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I will refer the question to the Minister and seek a reply for  Senator Davidson. 
The proposed amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police to form an Australian Federal police force was announced by the Government as a matter of principle in about the middle of this year. Since that time a working party drawn from both police forces and from the departments involved has gone into a good deal of the detail which has to be examined. The matter is still a little short of coming back before the Government in a formal way for decisions on some of the major questions of principle which have to be determined. It is still my hope that that process will be completed during the course of this calendar year, if not by the end of this session, and that we will be in a position to introduce legislation in the autumn sittings of the Parliament next year. 
I note that the honourable senator raised in his question matters concerning civil liberties. I think it would be fair to say that the present Government has no intention of leaping into an Australian FBI, as was envisaged by the previous Government. I think I can assure the honourable senator that matters of civil liberties will remain uppermost in the Government's mind.I do not believe that the Government will necessarily make the passage of that Bill contingent upon the passage of the Criminal Investigation Bill. I understand that my colleague the AttorneyGeneral has consideration of that Bill well in hand. It may be that he can give to the Senate information as to the precise stage that has been reached. 
Without going into a great deal of detail, for one thing I do not think that this proposal will be sprung upon any of the parties involved without notice. A process of consultation is going on with respect to the police associations concerned, the departments concerned and the State governments concerned. In all those respects, I believe there are important safeguards in the area that has been mentioned by the honourable senator. 
I think that this question should be answered by me as the Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Police which has a group of officers at Maralinga. I think that there is some confusion apparent in the matters which have been raised in the Senate today. An earlier question related to the possibility of there being diffuse material- material spread over a wide area and which posed some sort of dust danger. The police guard at Maralinga relates to what has been described as the discrete material which is buried in pits. The guard is there to ensure that that is not interfered with. That position remains unchanged and there is no immediate proposal to reduce the guard. Rather, it is there to ensure that that material cannot be interfered with. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the agreement and memoranda of lease associated with the lease of stage 1 of the proposed Kakadu National Park, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom). 
The honourable senator raises a matter which is of considerable importance to the Australian aircraft industry. It is a matter of which I do not have any close knowledge. I will refer it to the Minister for Productivity for a reply. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Productivity for 1977-78 entitled: 'Productivity 1978'. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Construction for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 46 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Commissioner for Community Relations for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (3) The Government has now decided that the Special Broadcasting Service, in conjunction with NEBAC, should co-ordinate the preparation of a public discussion paper on needs, programs and administrative options for a special purpose' television service, which will include a major ethnic service component. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be arranging an extensive program of consultation on these and other matters to ensure that all ethnic communities have the opportunity to contribute to the planning of ethnic television services. 
Rehabilitation Medicine in Australian Universities  (Question No. 714) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (3) I refer the honourable senator to the information provided in answer to House of Representatives Question No. 259 (Weekly  Hansard of 2  June 1977. pages 2555-67). 
Rhodesian Nationals: Permanent Residence in Australia  (Question No. 6S2) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Yes- UHF channels will be used for ehtnic television services. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Australian National Airlines Commission, Australian Shipping Commission, Australian National Railways Commission. 
By Section 40 ( 1 ) of the Australian National Airlines Commission Act, Section 39 ( 1 ) of the Australian Shipping Commission Act, and Section 41(1) of the Australian National Railways Commission, each of the above Commissions is required to provide to the Minister for Transport, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, a report of its operations during that year, together with financial statements for that year. 
Further, by Sections 40(3), and 39(4), and 41 (3) respectively, the Minister for Transport is required to table such reports and statements, together with the AuditorGeneral 's reports, in each House of the Parliament within 1 5 sitting days of receipt. 
Audited accounts and the annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year 1976-77 were forwarded on 18 October 1977. Those for the Australian Shipping Commission were forwarded on 4 October 1977. The audited accounts for the Australian National Railways Commission for the period have not been completed (see 6). 
Audited accounts and the annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year 1976/77 were tabled in the Parliament on 25 October 1977. Those for the Australian Shipping Commission were tabled on 18 October 1977. 
Australian National Railways Commission. 
The Australian National Railways Commission has not yet presented audited accounts for 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78, i.e. for the period of operations since the establishment of the Commission on 1 July 1975 and its assumption of responsibility for the Tasmanian and non-metropolitan South Australian railways as from that date. 
Preparation of accounts by the Commission has been delayed because of the need to develop procedures for a new accounting structure to be applied to the amalgamated railways making up the Commission 's railways. 
lt is a fact that over the last year or two the commercial television operators in Australia have become much more aware of the attractiveness of telecasting international sporting events. As a result they have gone into this field and have tended to purchase the rights to international events to the exclusion of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I must say that the reason why they have been able to do this on occasions to the exclusion of the Commission is that they have simply been able to outbid the Commission. That has resulted in the sort of situation which has been outlined in  Senator Martin's  question whereby commercial organisations which do not have total national coverage have exclusive rights to a program. 
I would perhaps quarrel with one line in  Senator Martin's  question. The honourable senator referred to the preparedness of the commercial channels to allow the Australian Broadcasting Commission to beam these programs into the areas not serviced by the commercial channels. I would perhaps quarrel with that statement if it is implicit in it that that is some sort of free offer. My understanding is that the commercial channels are prepared to do that but they are prepared to do it only at a price. The ABC's position is-- 
I think the ABC's position is that it would tolerate it if the price was right. In any event, it is a matter of concern that people in many areas cannot see these programs because undoubtedly sporting spectaculars have become an important part of the television fare in Australia. The Australian Broadcasting Commission itself has commented on this matter in its last two annual reports. The matter is currently under the attention of the Minister, who is working towards a solution of the problem in consultation with both the commercial interests and the Commission. I will refer the honourable senator's question to  Mr Staley  to underline the concern which is felt in the community about this matter. I am sure that will be an added spur to his endeavours. 
The matter raised by  Senator O  'Byrne is a matter which certainly I have not heard of before. I very much doubt whether it has previously been brought to the attention of the Government. I think at the time of the incident relating to the alleged problem with respect to Jewish passengers not being permitted to go on certain Qantas Airways Ltd flights the Government made it very clear that it was not prepared to sanction that sort of activity. I would have thought that the present Government made it clear that it was not tolerant of distinctions on the grounds of race or religion and so on. Therefore I will certainly refer the matter raised by  Senator O  'Byrne to the Minister for Transport for investigation and will let the honourable senator have a detailed report on it. 
There were no advances to land commissions or urban land councils in 1978- 79 and the funding commitments which were entered into in the last Budget were met in that year. There were no allocations to any States in 1978-79. 1 know that the matter of review was of interest to  Senator Rocher  long before he became a member of this place. No review is under way at the moment, but in fact the agreement with South Australia provides for a review at the end of 1978-79, the agreement with Western Australia provides for a review by the end of 1979- 80, and the agreements with New South Wales and Victoria can be reviewed at any time at the request of the Commonwealth or the relevant State. 
I have not actually seen the commercials referred to by  Senator Missen  in his question. They were the subject of a newspaper report about a week ago which I did see. I must say that the general idea of the commercials which, in the words of the sponsor are non-political advertisements designed to stimulate enthusiasm and pride in Australia and to help get things moving again, seems to be a very good one. I might say that that is very good advice for all Australians except perhaps for the Opposition and for  Senator Missen.  As I understand it there is no immediate prospect of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's adopting these advertisements although the ABC is independent in its programming and it is up to that organisation to decide whether it wishes to use the advertisements. It is not possible and the Government would not wish to direct the ABC in a matter of that kind. 
I will refer the advertisements and the honourable senator's question to the Minister and ask him at least to draw the matter to the Commission's attention. As far as commercial television stations are concerned, once again the Government does not purport to direct the stations as to what they can broadcast. I have little doubt that the stations are aware that this sort of thing is very much what the Government would like to see and that similar action by them would be welcomed. I think that I can only leave the matter at that point. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Air Navigation Act and the Air Navigation Regulations made under that Act. 
There are no exemptions from searching. If a passenger refuses to submit, carriage is denied. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At 17 October 1978, Trans-Australia Airlines' fleet consisted of 8 Boeing 727/200s. 4 Boeing 727/ 100s. 12 DC9s, 1 3 F2 7s and 4 DHC.6 Twin Otters. 
At the same date the fleet of Ansett Airlines of Australia consisted of 8 Boeing 727/2005. 4 Boeing 727/100s, 12DC9s, 1 1 F27s. 3 L.188 Electras and 2 Sikorsky S61 helicopters. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Aircraft operations at Archerfield are conducted to satisfactory standards of safety. If this were not so, the Department of Transport would restrict the level of activity. 
The Department is conducting trials of proposed new operating and control procedures at Parafield which are designed to improve the flow of traffic and make the most efficient use of available facilities. On completion of the trials, consideration will bc given to introducing some or all of the new procedures at Archerfield. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (b) The Commonwealth Fire Board's report on the standardisation of fire hose couplings was tabled on 27 September 1978. 
Since then the report has been distributed to Departments and other interested organisations. 
It is too early to expect reaction from Departments and this reaction will depend to a large degree on the acceptance or otherwise of the Commonwealth Fire Board recommendations by State Authorities. 
It would be expected that if the coupling recommended becomes a national standard then Departments would naturally follow this standard. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission already has some basic Teletext equipment and has been carrying out tests in Sydney since 29 September 1977. Tests were also commenced in Melbourne during the early part of 1 978. 
My Department will shortly be issuing draft technical standards on Teletext for comment by the industry. Comment will also be invited from the Commission, and I would anticipate subsequent co-ordinated field tests between the Commission and my Department. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commonwealth Police. 
Section 1 1 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957 provides that the Minister shall, once in each year, cause a report containing a general review of the operation of the Commonwealth Police Force and a summary of its activities during the year to be prepared and the report shall be laid before each House of Parliament. 
The annual report for the Commonwealth Police for 1977-78 was presented to the Minister for tabling on 15 August 1978. 
The annual report for the Commonwealth Police for 1 977-78 was tabled on 23 August 1 978. 
5 ) and (6 ) Not applicable. 
1 ) Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
None. 
to (6) Not applicable. 
1 ) Remuneration Tribunal and Academic Salaries Tribunal. 
None. 
to (6) Not applicable. 
I am not familiar with the report to which  Senator Wriedt  has referred in his question. I will refer his question to my colleague and seek a reply. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. 
On 24 August 1978  Senator Thomas  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
Is it true that only one officer is available in Western Australia to investigate complaints against interference from CB. Radio? Would the Minister agree that the delay of many months before complaints can be investigated is unsatisfactory and that the problem is becoming more serious because of the increase in the use of CB. Radio and because of the increase in the illegal, and in many cases, dangerous broadcasting of so-called pirate calls? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
No, there are three officers employed on interference investigations in the Western Australian office of my Department. Their duties, however, relate to all interference complaints, including those connected with CB. Radio. 
Yes, I agree that a delay of many months before complaints can be investigated should not be allowed to go unchecked. Accordingly, a detailed review of staffing requirements has recently been completed and action is now in hand to expand the Department's manpower resources for undertaking interference investigations. 
It is anticipated that two additional officers will shortly commence duty in the Western Australian office, and these officers will be engaged in the area in question. I am confident that as a result of this action it will be possible to reduce delays in investigations and to gain more effective control of illegal transmissions. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes-  Mr R.  Bailye;  Mr B.  Treasure: Taimac Video Corporation; TVW Enterprises Ltd; Swan Television &amp; Radio Broadcasters Ltd; Ace Theatres Pty Ltd. 
References to this matter include: 
Senate  Hansard  1 1 May 1978 page 1643, being a reply by  Senator Carrick  to a question without notice by  Senator Chaney. 
Spokesman for the Minister as reported in the  West Australian  dated 12 May 1978 page 1 and 13 May 1978 page 3, indicated that there were no plans at present for a third commercial station in Perth, but that the Department was examining the matter. (3)I have not received material such as described, nor as far as I am aware has it been made available to the others suggested by the honourable  Senator. 
Should consideration be given to the allocation of a third television licence for Perth, a planning proposal would be prepared by my Department. This proposal would be discussed with 
Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations 
Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters 
Australian Broadcasting Commission 
Public Broadcasting Association of Australia 
May I add that no such proposal is currently being prepared by my Department. I am not convinced that a proposal along these lines should be developed at this time, and particularly not before the Government has completed its consideration of the Satellite Task Force Report. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator 's question: 
1 ) Balanced coverage by ABC News and Public Affairs programs is not hampered by the absence of a television link between Launceston and Hobart. Visual coverage, however, is seriously limited, and at times impossible, because of the absence of such a link. 
The establishment of regional television studios upon which a regular television link between Launceston and Hobart would depend is a matter which is being kept under review by the Government. 
The ABC regularly films interviews in Launceston for later transmission in Hobart. Such interviews have to be arranged to allow time for transport to Hobart. 
The ABC does, where practicable, record interviews in Canberra for  This Day Tonight  and sends them by broadband to Hobart via Sydney. Direct Canberra-Hobart links, which are very costly, have been used on occasions. Because of the topical nature of news items, and of most public affairs material, the use of domestic air transport from Canberra to Hobart is generally less than satisfactory. Another factor which militates against more regular filming of interviews in Canberra for despatch to Hobart is the availability of staff and technical equipment in Canberra. When the Parliament is sitting, the ABC's Canberra Bureau is extremely busy recording material for national use. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 

The exhibition of Nomad was part of the world-wide marketing of Nomad and was used for the world-wide release of the stretched Nomad version- the N24A commuter. 
) Yes- Nomad with a chin mounted radome suitable for a 360 degree search radar was exhibited in the static park. 
As well as general public enquiries 50 to 60 enquiries were received from possible potential Nomad operators. 
Two firm orders were received for the N24A version, one each for Eastern Carribean Airways, and Air and Sea Services Switzerland. In addition one of our distributors received a deposit for two aircraft. Further sales prospects are being followed up. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No.  Mr Willis  did raise with me the matter of a worksharing scheme in general terms and has recently sent me some specific material. This material is at present being studied by my Department. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Full details of the proposed air charter arrangements for coastal surveillance are contained in Tender Schedule No. C2/78/71 which is a public document available from my Department. 
The tender calls for two separate contracts for a two year period, one covering aircraft to undertake daily surveillance flights of the northern coastline between Geraldton and Cairns, and the other covering three aircraft for full time use by Customs authorities. The Customs aircraft will be based at Port Hedland, Darwin and Townsville and will be deployed as required. 
Briefly, the conditions of the charter will be that the operator provides the aircraft, crew and fuel and will be responsible for the maintenance ofthe aircraft. 
I am beginning to suspect that  Senator Townley  's mother was frightened by a telephone technician shortly before he was born. He appears to be getting very concerned about telephone accounts. This is the fourth or fifth question he has asked on the matter in the last few weeks. In a previous answer I referred him to the quite detailed evidence given on charging by Telecom to an Estimates committee. Part of the detailed evidence showed that across the totality of customers of Telecom about 0.8 per cent raised a query and over 80 per cent of those queries were dealt with very quickly. This left about 16,000 accounts out of some 10 million accounts about which there was any real problem. 
In any event, I will deal with the specific questions raised by  Senator Townley  this morning. I think the matter he raises arises with respect to the supply of any service which is metered. I suppose everybody who has a gas, electricity or water service is subject to charging on the basis of an operating meter. These meters, like the meters operated by Telecom, are subject to checking when a query is raised. I am sure that if any serious doubt arose in the mind of the Auditor-General he would examine the matter. I do not know whether it has ever been raised with him. I do not have any information on whether any department has ever queried a Telecom account. That is a matter on which I will make some inquiries and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
With respect to control over private calls, I assume that the honourable senator is suggesting that public servants may choose to use Public Service facilities to make their private telephone calls. I suppose that that could occur. I understand that not all Public Service telephones are attached to subscriber trunk dialling facilities. Restrictions are placed as to which officers have direct and unlimited access to STD telephones. Once again I will seek some particulars and let the honourable senator have a more detailed reply. 
-The honourable senator asks a series of questions about matters on which I have no information. I shall certainly seek the facts from the Minister. I will also pass on the inquiry that the honourable senator has made and seek a reply for him. 
The Opposition, or elements of the Opposition, seem to find it terribly easy to grab a gross figure and say that it represents an enormous profit and therefore it ought to lead to great reductions in the cost of services. In fact when one looks at the total turnover of Telecom and the assets that are required to produce the revenue that is produced one can see that the profit is down to a 1 per cent or 2 per cent figure. This is a very small amount of money in terms of the overall operation. Telecom has limited abilities to effect reductions because under the statute introduced by  Senator Bishop,  who sits behind  Senator Ryan,  it is required to be conducted as a business. It has certain requirements to raise its own finance and so on. I do not quarrel with that. It is simply a fact with which Telecom has been required by this Parliament to live. 
I note also that  Senator Ryan  talked about the need to improve services to consumers. I would have thought that in many respects that has been achieved. Most significantly, during a period of very sharply rising costs Telecom has managed to contain its charges to its consumers and, for some services, to reduce them. For example, there are concessions with respect to the longer distance rates. In some areas there have been reductions in money terms and overall there have been reductions in real terms in the charges for services. 

 Senator Ryan raised a very specific inquiry with respect to pensioner concessions. I will certainly refer that matter to the Minister. I will obtain the figures which she requests. They will enable us to make a judgment as to whether her proposition is practical. I must stress that charges are basically in the hands of Telecom, which is an independent corporation. 
-The fact that the wheat crop in Victoria is so good that disposal trucks are having to be bought back to cart it is about the nicest complaint I have heard for a long time. The country could stand a lot more bad news like that. I do not have any information about the railway truck shortage which has been raised by  Senator Primmer.  I am sure that if there is a shortage it is of concern to his constituents. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Transport and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
Earlier  Senator Ryan  asked a question about concessions to pensioners- a question which she put in the context of the profits of Telecom Australia. When I answered I had forgotten that the same matter was raised in the Senate by  Senator Messner  on 1 8 October, except that he raised it with respect to the extension of the existing concessions to pensioners. As  Senator Ryan  would know, there are some concessions. Recently, after inquiring of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, I advised  Senator Messner-  no doubt this would be of interest to the Senate generally- to the effect that this is in fact a matter for the Minister for Social Security. As I mentioned in my answer, in accordance with the principles laid down in the legislation, where there are concessions to pensioners, funds are appropriated to the Department of Social Security for payment to the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission as the case may be. Although the question raised by  Senator Ryan  and the figures she cited are relevant to any consideration of the matter, I draw to her attention the fact that this is an item of social security policy which would involve appropriations for that purpose rather than concessions by Telecom, which is a business organisation. 
The Senate is having a long debate on this matter and the Government's view on it, which is a view that I support, has already been put to the Senate in the speech by  Senator Guilfoyle.  There were a couple of matters which I wanted to put on the record during the course of this debate. If I may, however, I would like to comment on a couple of the things which have been said during the course of the debate. I think it a little unfortunate that  Senator Chipp  suggested by inference that those who wrote letters were seeking to manipulate or corrupt, because he described himself as the man obviously thought to be most easily manipulated or corrupted in that he had received the most letters. A number of people in this debate, by way of interjections and speeches, have made disparaging remarks about the people who have written letters and about the people who have signed roneoed letters on both sides of this issue. I would like to dissociate myself from those remarks and to say that I regard it as the proper right of any person who feels strongly on an issue to address letters or even to suggest to other people that they write letters. At least one other honourable senator in this chamber who has recently spoken has thought it quite reasonable, for example, to organise petitions on the question of legal aid. I exclude  Senator Evans,  who has spoken about legal aid. I know of honourable senators who have organised petitions on legal aid over the last few years, no doubt believing that this is a subject of importance on which there ought to be expressions of views. If that is a proper technique- I believe that it is- so it is a proper technique for people to suggest that there ought to be a campaign of letter-writing. I respect those people. I am prepared to say that I respect those who have written in favour of abortion as much as I respect those who have written against it, all of whom have taken the time and trouble to try to influence the members of this place. I think that is a proper operation in a democracy. 
I am relieved that  Senator Chipp  indicated that he found abortion abhorrent, because I think that it is useful to find some common ground in a difficult debate such as this. I think that the depth of the abhorrence with respect to abortion that is felt by many people is based on the concept of foetal life- the concept of there being a separate life once conception has occurred. That in effect makes this a subject matter for debate which is unique in all those areas which we claim to be moral areas. In fact, it leads me to make a different judgment from the one I would make on many similar issues. When  Senator Button,  according to  Senator Chipp,  poses the dilemma of the right to life versus the freedom of choice, then I think we have to face the fact that we are in an awkward situation in that if we accept the concept of a living foetus then we have to accept the concept that one of the parties involved does not have freedom of choice. That simply means that the arguments never come together. If there is even a chance that the foetus has a separate life then I believe that one has to give the benefit of doubt to that unrepresented, helpless party in this argument. I believe that any senator for whom there is any doubt in that matter can make only one choice and that choice has to favour the anti-abortion stance. 
I also would like to reject thoroughly the sort of idea which was put forward by  Senator Chipp  that we ought to preserve only those whose lives which can be lived at a quality that we find acceptable. I find that a quite revolting concept. I think that we live in a peculiar period of history in which the general standard of welfare and living is extremely high. Throughout the history of the world many people have lived in rather miserable circumstances and unfortunately many people still live in miserable circumstances. To suggest that one can choose between those who will live and those who will not on the basis of whether they are going to lead comfortable and pleasant lives in circumstances of love, companionship and so on, is, I think, the height of arrogance and something which all thinking men should reject. 
I conclude my comments in that area by saying that I believe that many of the speeches today have been put forward in what I regard as a classical liberal tradition. I think that people like my colleague,  Senator Missen,  who stands squarely in that tradition, and my more recent colleague,  Senator Puplick,  to mention two from this side of the chamber, put forward a viewpoint which in a philosophic way I generally accept. We should let individuals decide their own lives. We ought to allow individuals their moral choices and the law in general should not be used to dictate private morality. I certainly accept all those things. If I may go back to a point that I made a little while ago, unfortunately one cannot accept that liberal stance in a situation where the decision of the individual impinges on another individual- and there again is the dilemma. If a person accepts the separate life of a foetus, that comfortable freedom to choose for himself or herself is barred. The tests that I would apply in the issue of homosexual law reform and other such issues are tests which seem to me to appear to fall down on this issue of abortion. 
The sort of liberals to whom I refer- and I refer to them with respect- accept that the law imposes moral decisions in that it prohibits theft, rape, murder, assault and a whole series of acts which also have a moral context and it prohibits them because they affect another party. Those of us who do not adopt the same view as those liberals on this occasion do so on the basis that the decision of the woman- a painful and difficult decision, which it must be for so many women- is a decision which affects not only that woman alone. That is the fundamental difference between us and a difference which I regret to say is unbridgeable if one does not accept the concept of the separate life of the foetus. 
I thank  Senator Tate  for what I think was a very fine summary of the situation which faces the Senate today. I believe that he has in a very clear way demonstrated, if it is not an argument about abortion, what it is an argument about. The fact of the matter is that if an honourable senator is of the view- and the majority of honourable senators seem to be of this viewthat we should not have private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory, which certainly is the view of the Legislative Assembly, then I think he has to look hard at  Senator Tate's  first proposition, which was that to carry the motion moved by  Senator Ryan  would have dangerous and unpredictable consequences. The fact of the matter is that this Senate is in a position of having extremely limited power in this matter. The only power that this Senate has is a power to disallow the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance. The Senate has no executive authority in the field of health. Indeed, the Senate has no executive authority at all, whether it be over the whole of Australia, any State or the Australian Capital Territory. All that it can do is remove this Ordinance from the statute book. 
The Senate by itself could introduce legislation, but whether that legislation was passed would depend on another chamber, the House of Representatives, and would depend upon the Governor-General, who acts on the advice of the Executive Council. So to suggest that this Senate has the power to rectify the position by legislation is cant. It is simply not true. We have a role in legislation; but honourable senators who cast a vote on this motion are exercising the only absolute authority that they have in this area, and that is to remove the Ordinance from the statute book. 
I am saying that if this Senate chooses to make the decision in this matter then that is the only decision it can dictate. Therefore I believe that, as  Senator Tate  has said quite correctly, if a vote is exercised in favour of 

 Senator Ryan 's motion then we will be leaving the position in ah unpredictable state. There is now a challenge, I am told, to the bona fides of the Government of which I am a part. I would simply say to honourable senators opposite that if a majority of senators vote in favour of the motion then who is to predict what power the Government will have in this matter. Its power to legislate is also subject to the power of this Senate. So one has a situation of absolute uncertainty, whatever the attitude of the Government. There is just so much which is unpredictable in this situation. So one has to look at the unpredictable future or at the predictable future. 
What is the present position? The predictable future is that if we leave this Ordinance as it stands we have an Ordinance which provides in section 3 that a registered medical practitioner shall not carry out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. There is no prohibition of abortion there. There is a prohibition of the place at which an abortion may be performed. The only place an abortion may be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory is at a registered hospital- a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. The Ordinance is even more explicit in the next section by providing that: 
Section 3 does not render lawful treatment carried out in a hospital referred to in that section if, apart from that section, the treatment would not be lawful. 
In other words, the Ordinance itself is neutral as to the abortion law in the Territory. It is simply a prescriptive as to how or where an abortion may be carried out. As I read the recommendations of the Legislative Assembly, that is perfectly consistent with them. The recommendation is that free-standing abortion clinics, outside public hospital grounds, shall not be permitted in the Australian Capital Territory. That is the first and most important recommendation. 
The other matters which have been raised are, as  Senator Tate  has said, in part matters which are within the control of the Capital Territory Health Commission. In fact the situation is that in respect of this Ordinance we are in a major sense consistent with what has been recommended by the Legislative Assembly and the position will remain in that state if  Senator Ryan's  motion is defeated, as I firmly hope that it will be. I thank the Senate for the opportunity to make some contribution to this debate. I seriously ask all honourable senators to reject this motion and not to cast their lot into the uncertainty which is predicated by the motion itself and by the foreshadowed motions which are before the Senate. 

 Senator CHIPP (Victoria- Leader ofthe Australian Democrats)-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I claim to have been misrepresented or misunderstood and under Standing Order 410 I seek leave to make an explanation. 
Leave granted. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Administrative Services)-I had no wish to misrepresent  Senator Chipp.  I welcome his explanation that he certainly did not intend to say anything of that nature. I will read his speech and certainly apologise to him if I have misinterpreted him. 
-On 11 October 1978  Senator Mcintosh  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
Is it a fact that the Government is contemplating the expenditure of nearly $200m on a domestic satellite system? If so, how much more rapidly will national and international news be distributed to the people of Australia when a satellite is in orbit than it is now, with radio? Will the satellite be manufactured and launched in Australia, or will the Government find yet another way of accentuating the already deplorable condition of our international debt? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the effect that the satellite would have in reducing the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, or will it be like Telecom's most recent venture and cause large numbers of trained people to be thrown on the industrial scrapheap? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has set up a Working Group of officials to consider the recommendations of the Task Force on a National Communications Satellite System. This Working Group is expected to bring forward proposals for the Government to consider in reaching a decision on this issue. 
The speed of dissemination of news, both national and international, to locations presently served by live broadcasts, will not necessarily be enhanced. For locations not receiving live television at present, and areas not at present within the range of a radio transmission, the introduction of a national communications satellite could be expected to provide opportunities to disseminate radio and television news and, for that matter, all other programs of immediate interest at the same time as they are received in the rest of the country. 
If the Government did decide to proceed to establish a national communications satellite in the time frame envisaged in the Task Force Report, it seems likely that, as was pointed out by the Task Force, the participation of Australian industry in the manufacture of a first generation of Australian satellites would be relatively small. The Task Force has suggested that Australian industry participation in future satellite models may be possible if the Government chose to encourage this approach. The  Senator will  be aware also that at present, Australia does not possess a capacity to launch such a satellite. Nevertheless the Task Force has indicated, in its Report, that if a contract were let to an overseas manufacturer to produce the necessary satellites, it seems likely that appropriate offset contracts might be arranged. Such an arrangement would, of course, offset the balance of payments effects. The Task Force has recognised that there would be the possibility of Australian industry participation in the manufacture of earth stations for the system but has warned that this may have cost implications. 
The full impact of the introduction of a national communications satellite  on employment  opportunities would be difficult to determine at this stage. It is not unusual, however, in respect of the introduction of technology of this nature, for job opportunities to be increased rather than diminished. In respect ofthe industries most closely affected, the Task Force concluded that the employment implications of the introduction of a national communications system would be minimal. 

 - Mr President, I was going to indicate to the Senate that I am quite happy to try to answer both questions at once. 
I have no information about the Budget cuts and how they might affect the Australian Conservation Foundation. I will seek the information for the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962,I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975,I present the report of the Australian Postal Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Primary Industry and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
-The matter raised by  Senator Thomas  is one of considerable interest in all rural areas in Australia. In fact, on 7 November  Senator Davidson  asked a question similar to the one asked by  Senator Thomas.  I think that he is still awaiting a more detailed reply from me. In response to  Senator Thomas,  I confirm that there have been representations of the sort that he mentioned. I am assured by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications- I gather that he has been assured- that the rumours are in general without foundation. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is very conscious of its role in rural areas and is giving high priority to maintaining its services there. However, it is true that the rural department of the ABC is facing a critical staffing situation as it has had to make cuts in its overall staff numbers in line with cuts made in other program areas. That has meant that if one officer has to leave because of illness or anything like that it is necessary to link two areas and to provide a single program. In fact, the programming continues but there can be a loss of local news in that situation. 
There will also be some more difficulties during the Christmas-New Year period as rural officers have been asked to take their recreation leave at that time. That period was selected because there is little activity in wool and stock sales during that period. Alternative arrangements have been made using part time and other ABC employees to continue to provide weather, marketing and other agricultural information for country people. There will be no cuts in general rural programs. 
I am advised by the Minister that he is closely monitoring the ABC staffing situation. He has discussed the matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association and last Friday he discussed it with the Commission. The only other point I would add is that the present industrial action by the New South Wales Branch of the Commission is not really being very helpful in the consideration of the case being put forward for the easing of the ABC staff ceiling. 
-Senator Messner's appeal to federalism in his question made me feel very much at home. It gave the whole question a very Western Australian ring. I am aware that the State which  Senator Messner  represents is the only mainland State without an international airport. There has been some recent publicity about the fact that this makes international travel for South Australians more expensive. I might say that in fact in Western Australia there are similar complaints relating to the fact that when one is travelling east there is a cost loading which is out of proportion to the overall cost of international travel. 
The Government's policy has recently been outlined. Very heavy emphasis is placed on that policy, that is, on the introduction of generally lower fares on international air routes on a nondiscriminatory basis. That policy was adopted by the Government after consideration of the report of the committee which reviewed Australia's civil aviation policy. The committee, in its report, acknowledges that the question of gateways into Australia requires further study but it does point out the significant economies which will result to people in all States when lower fares are achieved from a number of gateways. However, I will take the specific matter of complaint raised by the honourable senator back to the Minister for Transport and seek some further information from him on it. I will ask the Minister to give the matter his attention. 
-The answer to the great bulk of the questions asked by the honourable senator is no- not in the sense that I disagree with them but in the sense that I am not aware of the particular matters which he has raised with me. Because of that I cannot give the students of New South Wales the assurance that  Senator Baume  seeks, but I will refer the questions he has asked to  Mr Nixon  and seek a reply and, in particular, the assurance that is sought for the students. 
-As I indicated to the Senate last week, the telephone concessions for pensioners are granted by the Department of Social Security which makes payments to Telecom Australia to make up for the loss of revenue. Therefore, I think this matter more properly should be referred to my colleague the Minister for Social Security. As far as I know, the matter has not been raised previously. It could have been raised previously. In any event, I will refer the matter to the appropriate Ministersperhaps two are involved- and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
-The only additional point I would make is that I think that the Government has made it very clear that the attitude adopted by South African Airways in this letter is one which it would expect would be adopted and that it would welcome. What concerns me about the letter is that South African Airways apparently has had difficulty in establishing the circumstances and details surrounding this alleged incident, and in using the word 'alleged' I am quoting from the letter. It has apparently tried to find out the details but, according to the letter, has not been able to obtain them. 
If honourable senators have more specific information it would be useful if they made it available to South African Airways. Further, I would direct the attention of honourable senators to the fact that there is in this country a Racial Discrimination Act. There is also a Commissioner for Community Relations and I would have thought that if the specific details were available they could usefully be referred to him. 
Perhaps I should make it clear, as I did by way of interjection during the question, that I sought and have obtained the incorporation in  Hansard  of the whole of this letter. Of course I have read the letter which, as I indicated, I received yesterday. I did not hear the interrogation on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program which was referred to by the honourable gentleman in his question. But if the facts are as indicated by the honourable senator then that in itself, I think, ought to make any of us cautious about making allegations. If, in fact, the complainant has said that he did not make inquiries as to why he was excluded, then automatically to assume that he has been excluded on a basis of race and to make public accusations to that effect is perhaps a little unwise. I note that in the letter which has already been incorporated in  Hansard  there is an indication that a number of flights in December and January are fully booked and wait listed and have been since early this year. So it is possible, on the basis of the statement put forward by South African Airways, that the refusal could have nothing to do with the reason that has been assumed by the person who made a complaint to SenatorO'Byrne. But to suggest that the Government ought to proceed from this situation into some form of general inquiry into the application of apartheid in South Africa with respect to holiday tours and so on, I think is rather excessive. This Government has made its attitude to apartheid amply clear to the Australian people, and indeed to the world. I would have thought that for us to be haring off on the sort of inquiry that  Senator O  'Byrne has suggested is certainly not justified on the state of facts which have been indicated to us so far, if it is at all. 
I hope that just the Opposition rather than the general public is confused. I think that the statement made by the Minister for Transport makes it clear that the fares are to be negotiated. No doubt the matter which will be most important to the public will be the actual air fares which will be available to them. Notwithstanding those comments, I will refer  Senator Sibraa  's request to the Minister for Transport for his consideration. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to amend the provisions of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 relating to the Academic Salaries Tribunal. The Act established the Remuneration Tribunal in 1973 and was amended in 1974 to establish the Academic Salaries Tribunal. Provision was made for the  chairman  of the former Tribunal to constitute the latter Tribunal. Due to changed circumstances the link between the two tribunals, namely the provision for the  chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal to constitute the Academic Salaries Tribunal is no longer appropriate. The  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal, the Honourable  Mr Justice  W. B. Campbell, has been elected Chancellor of the University of Queensland. As a result of this closer involvement with university affairs, he has indicated to the Government that he does not consider it appropriate for him to deal further with academic salaries matters. To remedy this situation the Government has decided to make changes to the Act. 
Clause 3 removes restrictions on the  chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal in respect of his association with tertiary academic institutions. These restrictions are no longer required because the  chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal will not in future constitute the Academic Salaries Tribunal. Clause 4 breaks the nexus between the two tribunals. Concurrently with the above changes it was thought expedient to effect, through clause 4 of the Bill, some minor consequential changes to the Act. These consist of making provision for the term of office, the qualifications, resignation and dismissal of the person occupying the Office of Academic Salaries Tribunal. Incidental changes, contained in the Schedule to the Bill, are merely those designed to bring the Act up to date in the light of changed circumstances since the original Act was passed, such as the independence of Papua New Guinea. 
Clause 6 is a savings clause which provides for continuity between the former Academic Salaries Tribunal and that which will be appointed in the future by ensuring that determinations made prior to these amendments to the Act shall be deemed to have effect on and after the date of commencement of this Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this amending Bill is to permit the continuation of assistance to Tasmania up to 30 June 1980 in respect of the continued operation of the Mount Lyell mine at Queenstown. Honourable senators will recall that the principal Act provided for assistance to Tasmania for Mt Lyell for the period ending on 30 June 1978 and that the assistance was provided pending the final Industries Assistance Commission's report on copper ores and concentrates. 
The Government considered the final report and on 28 June announced that the Commonwealth would continue assistance for Mount Lyell for the three months after 1 July 1978 pending the outcome of negotiations with Tasmania and the Mount Lyell company on the question of further assistance to the company. Commonwealth assistance in relation to the period 1 July to 30 September 1978 is estimated to be of the order of $ 1 m, although the recent recovery in copper prices can be expected to have reduced the Commonwealth contribution. 
On 23 August 1978 it was announced that the Commonwealth had reached agreement with the Tasmanian Government and the company to provide assistance for the operation of the Mount Lyell mine for a further 2 1 month period ending on 30 June 1980. The Bill now before the Senate would permit agreements to be made to extend assistance up to 30 June 1980. The Bill provides for a limit of $3. 8m in respect of Commonwealth assistance for the 21 months to 30 June 1980, subject to Tasmania itself bearing at least half the cost of the assistance to the company in that period. 
The Government has been prepared to share the cost of assistance to Mount Lyell for the 2 1 months on a dollar for dollar basis with Tasmania because of the serious consequences which would be suffered by the long-established but isolated Queenstown community and regions should the mine close. The Government was aware of the level of private ownership of community facilities such as housing in Queenstown, which is unusually high for mining towns. It was also conscious that the company has achieved a substantial reduction in the cost of mine production and is willing to invest in new road and mine vehicles at an estimated cost of $ 1.8m over the 21 months to place the mine on a more efficient operating basis. These measures are intended to enable the mine to reach a cash break-even position by the end of the period, and so enable it to continue operations after this assistance terminates. 
The Government was also mindful of the economic and social consequences for Tasmania and the people of Queenstown should the mine be forced to close down its operations at this time. Closure would involve an employment loss to Tasmania. Estimates of this loss range up to 2,000 jobs, which is between 1 per cent and 2 per cent of total employment in the State. The Commonwealth's assistance will be by way of an interest-free section 96 grant to the Tasmanian Government, which would be repayable from future positive cash flow achieved by the Mount Lyell mine and applied to repayments to Tasmania. 
Agreements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania, and between the State and the company, will be drawn up to give full effect to the arrangements agreed by the three parties. These agreements will include provisions to ensure that the Commonwealth's interests are properly protected. There will be comprehensive auditing procedures and certification by the State Director of Mines of the necessity of the development work undertaken. Detailed requirements will be set out regarding the operation of the mine and the subsidy to be paid, including eligible costs, minimising the cash deficit, and substantial maintenance of the employment level. 
Under the arrangements agreed with the State and the company, the Commonwealth contribution is estimated at about $1.6m for the 21 -month period. However, the cost could be more if copper prices do not recover to the extent expected. Accordingly the Bill proposes that there be a limit of $3.8m on the Commonwealth payments to Tasmania in relation to the period 1 October 1978 to 30 June 1980. This is the level of assistance required if the price of copper is 10 per cent less than that which has been forecast. 
The three parties have agreed that if the world copper outlook deteriorates significantly, each will have the right to seek a review of the arrangements. It is of course impossible to forecast future prices with any certainty. However, it is not thought very likely that there will be substantial deterioration from present relatively low prices, and the agreements reached look rather to a degree of recovery by mid- 1980 that would allow the mine to pay its own way. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 by providing an additional $33m in Commonwealth grants to the 
States for roadworks in both 1978-79 and 1979-80. The Bill also provides for an increase in quotas for State road expenditure from their own resources. Honourable senators will be aware that the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 currently provides for grants totalling $475m to be made available to the States in each of the three years 1977-78 to 1979-80. In introducing the legislation in September last year, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced that it was the Government's intention to adjust the grants for 1978-79 and 1979-80 so that they would be maintained at a level equivalent in real terms to the 1977-78 amount. The Bill now before the Senate will give effect to this undertaking by providing for the level of the grants for 1978-79 and 1979-80 to be increased to $508m. This is an increase of almost 7 per cent over the amount provided in 1977-78 and is based on a forecast rate of price movements in 1978-79. The Government considers that the increased level of funds for roads for which this Bill provides represents a very substantial commitment, having regard to the continuing policy of restraint in public expenditures that it has had to adopt The increase will be applied equally to all States. 
Honourable senators will be aware that, in allocating its grants for 1977-78, the Government made it clear that its priorities were to ensure that the road needs of local authorities were adequately covered and that emphasis was maintained on the funding of the national road network and rural arterial roads. The additional moneys which this Bill provides have in general been allocated among road categories pro rata to the existing allocations. This will effectively ensure that the priorities inherent in those allocations are maintained. There has been a slight departure from the pro rata approach in the case of South Australia. The indexation adjustment that would normally have been added to the national commerce roads category has instead been applied to the national highways construction category. This has been done to assist the State in meeting the Commonwealth's request that work to the value of Sim be undertaken on the Stuart Highway during 1978-79. In line with the Government's view that road funding is a responsibility of all three levels of government, each State will be required to fund an increased quota of road expenditure from its own resources in order to qualify for Commonwealth assistance. The Government has decided that State expenditure quotas for 1978-79 should be increased by the same percentage as the Commonwealth grants. I should emphasise that the quotas represent rninimum expenditure requirements which the States are free to exceed according to the priority which they attach to their road programs. 
It is pleasing to note that in recent years a number of States have exceeded their quotas by a significant amount. It is fair to say, however, that, having regard to the increases in Commonwealth general revenue assistance that have been made available in recent years, the States have been well placed to increase their own road funding efforts substantially. 
The details of the legislation are quite straightforward. The Bill provides for the repeal of the schedules to the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 and for their replacement with new schedules setting out the increased Commonwealth grants by road categories and the increased State quotas. The Bill also provides for a further minor amendment to update the reference in the principal Act to the Commonwealth transport planning and research legislation. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
Most of the matters which have been raised tonight were raised in the Estimates Committee hearings but there are a couple of matters on which I wish to comment. It seems to me that honourable senators opposite have extremely poor memories and when they regale the Senate with their complaints about Government advertising I simply remind them of their own brief period in office when there was a considerable amount of government advertising, some of which I recall featured a photograph of the then Leader of the Government in the Senate. There was some debate at that time about whether or not that advertising should occur. My recollection is that that advertising tended to relate to the benefits which the Labor Government, in its view, was bringing to the population and matters which it thought should properly be brought to the attention of the Australian population. 
The advertising conducted in February this year followed a complete change in the system of tax imposition with the introduction of standard rate taxation. It was the judgment of the Government that that was a matter properly to be brought to the attention of the populace. The experience of honourable senators opposite ought to indicate to them that when they imposed any penalties on the Australian community in the form of increased charges and so on the news tended to get around without the need for any paid advertising. I suggest that honourable senators opposite ponder on their experience. They might be prepared then to conclude that the temporary tax surcharge of  Vh  per cent which was introduced in this year's Budget but which is to be cut off on 30 June next year is news which, I suspect, has found its way into the minds of the Australian taxpaying public without any assistance from this Government. I thought that there was a certain lack of sincerity in the call for the Government to advertise to make that matter plain to the Australian taxpayer. I would be very surprised if honourable senators could go out into the electorate and find a sample of people who were not aware of the imposition of the temporary surcharge. However, they might conclude at the end of their interviews with the electors that the Government would be justified in advertising the fact that under this BUI the surcharge is imposed for only 12 months. I suspect that the populace, whilst it is aware that there has been an increase in taxation, is probably not 100 per cent aware that it is only a temporary increase although that has been explained in the Budget. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, at the time I came into the chamber to take up duty, was talking about the delay in re-calling tenders for the Australian Bureau of Statistics computer. I did not hear all that he had to say but I think he posed a number of questions. One of the questions related to the delay from about February through to the present time. I can only say in answer to that question that following the decision of the Government to re-call tenders because of the doubts which had been cast on the process that had previously occurred- I think that is a matter which is well known to all honourable senators and which received a lot of publicity at the time- there was an obvious desire on the part of the Government to make sure that the procedures followed this time carried no risk of criticism or suggestion that the tender procedures were not fair to all parties concerned. It ought to be known to honourable senators that as part of the process of re-calling tenders, an independent consultant who was engaged advised the Government that the tender documents were in proper order and so on, and, indeed, there was an extremely meticulous and time-consuming process adopted for reexamining what was to be done before tenders were re-called. 
I suppose I have to bear some of the blame for the delay. Undoubtedly, the change of Ministers in the portfolio which I now hold would have contributed to the delay to some extent. I had to become familiar with the matter when I took over the portfolio so there was probably some additional time lag because of that fact. It has now been announced that tenders are to be recalled. Honourable senators should not be surprised that the tender process is fairly time consuming. It is an extremely complex tender and I think that the time which has been allowed is simply an acknowledgment of the fact that tenderers wil need time to prepare their tenders and consider the requirements. Once tenders are closed there will be a further period in which tenders Will have to be considered. I emphasise to the Senate that buying a computer system is not like buying a typewriter. It is a rather more complicated procedure. Therefore, one cannot simply call tenders, close tenders and buy something immediately off the shelf. It is not quite as simple as that. 
The only other matter on which I wanted to comment was the matter raised by  Senator McLaren.  Effectively, he was simply repeating comments which are implicit in questions he asked at the Estimates committee hearing. I do not think that one can seriously suggest that the process of sampling unemployment by the Australian Bureau of Statistics ought to be accompanied by a simultaneous recruitment campaign of those who were discovered in the survey process to be amongst the unemployed. Who is trained and used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics is a matter which is no doubt within the discretion of the Australian Bureau of Statistics in which it is guided by its experience in this area. I agree that the ABS is an extremely experienced gatherer of statistics. If its experience is that women of the type described in the Estimates committee do provide the service which is required by the Bureau, I think it would be an extremely odd thing if the Government intervened and told the Bureau that it should use these people to find pockets of unemployment that could be relieved and to get rid of its existing staff. I suspect that those constituents of  Senator McLaren  who perform this work would be extremely unimpressed by his advice to the Government. I must say that I do not regard his suggestion as a very practical one. It is a suggestion, however, which is on the record and it no doubt will be considered. But I would not hold out any great hopes that it is in fact a practical suggestion which would be adopted by the Government. 
 Just so the record will be straight, if there was any misunderstanding of what I said I would like to make it clear that there is no argument about the fact that the increase over the year is a 1.5 cent increase in the standard rate of tax. So it is true that it is greater than a 1.5 per cent increase in the amount of taxation that is paid. I think the standard rate was 32c in the dollar. For incomes up to $16,000 the rate will be 33.5 per cent for the financial year 1978-79. 
I am not able to answer in detail now the matter which has just been referred to by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I will make an inquiry and see whether some material can be made available to the Committee of the Whole on that aspect. However, I must say, with respect to the effect of the delay in procuring a new computer, that obviously the Australian Bureau of Statistics will have to go on using its existing computer services. In the case of the Department of Trade and Resources, which is associated with the procurement of new equipment, there will be an extension of the leasing of equipment which is servicing that Department at present. Undoubtedly, to some extent that will restrict the ability of the Australian Bureau of Statistics to achieve that statistical output that both it and the Government might desire. It would be footling to suggest that the delays would have no effect. They must, of course, have some effect. 
The overall effect of that, and of staff ceilings, is to ensure that resources are rationed. There has to be a sorting out of priorities.  Senator McLaren  has addressed the Committee on that matter on a couple of occasions this evening. The fact that resources and effort have had to be rationed is not peculiar to this Department. Throughout the consideration of the Estimates, as there was during the work of the Estimates committees, reference will be made to the fact that staff ceilings have been imposed. In many cases that means some restriction on the activities of departments. That would seem to me to be like night following day. This Government has made it quite clear that it regards the holding down of government expenditure as a matter of considerable importance- in fact, it is fundamental to its economic policy. Therefore, the Government does not apologise for the fact that this and other departments must ration the effort they make, and decide what priorities should be followed. 
Although that might be quite irksome to those honourable senators opposite who lived through a period of government in which expenditure was regarded as a blessing and something which could be entered upon without a great deal of consideration- we had a massive increase in government expenditure and the activities of departments under Labor- this Government has chosen to move in a different direction. It has done so quite openly. It has made it clear to the Australian electorate that that is its course and I do not think that a great deal is served by drawing attention over and over again to the obvious. Having said that, I will endeavour to obtain a response on the point that has been raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Probably there is available material which can answer the question that he has asked. 
I doubt that the Australian population shares the view that has been put by  Senator McLaren  and I suspect that massive foreign investment forthwith would please the great bulk of Australians enormously. In any event, I refer  Senator McLaren  to the transcript of the Estimates Committee hearing to which he has been referring. If he looks at the section relating to his questions about job surveys and the suggestions that he put that it was at the direction of government that the Australian Bureau of Statistics discontinued job vacancies surveys he will see that  Mr Bagnall  replied: 
No, it was a consideration of our overall work program, ministerial comment and our own statistical and professional judgment as to the areas in which we should make the cuts in our statistical program. 
Later, as recorded at page 1075, in response to  Senator McLaren Mr Bagnall  said: 
It was considered, in our judgment, to be an area where we could reduce our staff allocations to optimise the value of statistics overall. 
The fact of the matter is that the Government has made a decision as to the funds which will be available to the Australian Bureau of Statistics as it has made decisions as to the funds which will be available to other sections of Government. Those decisions have been related to the views of the Government as to total government expenditure in Australia. That is a matter on which we have made our position amply clear to the Australian electorate. No matter how much  Senator McLaren  likes to complain about the fact that this sort of financial restraint is placed on government departments, it is the fact. That is a matter for which the Government cannot escape responsibility and for which it does not seek to escape responsibility. It is a government decision related to our approach to the whole of the Australian economy. I think singling out this particular point really takes us no further along that track. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $525,985,000. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
to (S) An opinion was sought from the AttorneyGeneral's Department in June on the question whether the Remuneration Tribunal had power to determine a minimum salary for electorate staff of Senators and Members. 
The substance of the opinion was that paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 9.6 of Determination No. 1978-9 in relation to the salaries of the electorate secretaries and the assistants referred to therein were legally ineffective, as the staff concerned were engaged under the Public Service Act and their salaries and other terms and conditions of employment fell to be determined under that Act and not by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
An opinion was also sought from the Solictor-General who agreed that the Determination did not have the effect in law of fixing the salaries of assistants of Members of the Parliament. In light of the foregoing advice, the matter of classification of electorate staff was referred to the Public Service Board for Determination and on 8 August the Board issued a Determination providing new salary rates for such staff. In respect of the Tribunal's determination to make available additional staff to Shadow Ministers, there was consultation with the Attorney-General's Department and advice was prepared by the Solicitor-General. 
I assure the honourable senator that the Government decisions in these matter, conveyed to the Acting Leader of the Opposition by the Prime Minister in a letter of 30 June 1 978, were consistent with the advice that was given. 
The reason why persons in respect of whom paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 9.6 of Determination No. 1978-9 have not received new salary rates from 1 July 1978 in accordance with those paragraphs is because, on the legal opinions referred to above, those paragraphs did not have the effect in law of fixing those salaries. 
Teaching of Rehabilitation Medicine and Geriatrics (Question No. 712) rk  Senator Knight  asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
What action has been taken, or is proposed, concerning the recommendations in the Second Report of the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped that: (a) notwithstanding the Council's preference for the establishment of Chairs of Rehabilitation Medicine in lieu of Co-ordinators of Rehabilitation Studies, 'the Tertiary Education Commission be enabled to implement, as a matter of high priority the recommendations of the Working Party on Rehabilitation Medicine and Geriatrics, in order to promote the teaching of rehabilitation medicine and geriatrics within university medical schools': (b) 'the Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training (Williams) take special account of the need to analyse rehabilitation tasks, and to assess manpower requirements accordingly, in its examination of the requirements of special groups such as handicapped people '. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No specific investigation has been made of the complaints in the  Sunday Mail  of 1 October 1978 because of the broad nature of those complaints. 
Notwithstanding the fact that no specific investigation has been made I have had the matter looked at from an overall point of view and I would like to comment on the general points raised. 
Archerfield is a training aerodrome and as such carries a great deal of circuit traffic. These circuits, apart from the take-off and landing phases, are carried out at the normal height of 1, 000 feet. 
With regard to late operations, training flights do not extend beyond 9.00 p.m. and normally conclude at 8.00 p.m. There is a small number of itinerant operations after 9.00 p.m. 
In regard to formation flying this type of operation is carried out at Archerfield only with the approval of Air Traffic Control and is subject to satisfactory arrangements being made between the formation leader and Air Traffic Control on the sequences to be flown. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee examined the possible use of international airlines to provide some capacity for domestic use and concluded that it could be advantageous for some consumers and result in better utilisation of resources if TAA and Ansett Airlines of Australia were able to enter into arrangements with Qantas for utilisation of that airline 's spare capacity over Australia 's domestic routes. Following release of the Committee's report discussions have been initiated with the domestic airlines and Qantas on this and related recommendations, these discussions are continuing. 
I do not have any information on the matter raised by the honourable senator. I shall seek a reply for him from the Minister for Transport. 
I do not think that there has been any particular attempt by the Auditor-General's Office to recruit youth. I understand, again from the officers, that there is recruitment both from below and across the Service. Therefore a mixture of people are entering the Auditor-General's Office. The only comment I add- it is no more than a comment- is that I suppose some experience is often an advantage in handling the work carried out by the Auditor-General's Office. To have inexperienced people running the rule over departments is probably not the optimum way to go about it. Again, that may well be a sensible explanation for the emphasis on the employment of older people. I am advised that at present no particular effort is being made to recruit youth to reduce the hump which the honourable senator has mentioned. 
I am advised by the officers that there is a different age distribution in the Auditor-General's Office as against the rest of the Service. The Office has a larger proportion of officers who are in an older age group. That is probably the explanation of the matter that  Senator McLaren  has raised. 
 Quite clearly from what was said by  Senator Carrick  and from what I have just said, some response ought to be given to the matter which has been raised after it has been considered by the responsible Minister. 
If there is any truth in the matters which have been raised by the honourable senator I am a little surprised that I have not heard about them. I must say that one of the interesting things about this portfolio is that one is very accessible to a portion of the department that one administers. My common experience is that car drivers let me know all of the matters that are concerning them in the administration of the Department and of the car pool. I am pleased to say that not one of them has complained of seat collapse, brake problems or vaporisation. I could go on to list some of the things about which they have complained. I will, however, check on the matters that have been raised with respect to the Ford Fairmonts and let the honourable senator have a detailed reply. 
I was not aware that a little over three weeks ago the honourable senator had written to  Mr Staley  on this matter. I must say that for an honourable senator to have to wait between three and four weeks for a reply on an inquiry of that kind would not be unusual, in my experience. I will mention the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and ask him to expedite a reply to the honourable senator. 

 - Senator Keeffe raises a matter which has always been of keen interest in Australia. One has a certain superstitious reluctance to refer to the very good safety record of Australian airlines. That, however, is a fact. This is in part of course a function of the very high standards which have been required by the Government and by the airlines themselves. The 350 metres visibility limit is a matter on which I have no detailed knowledge. I shall refer all of the detailed questions which have been asked by the honourable senator to  Mr Nixon  to obtain a reply for him. 
I am rather put off by the thought of stamps carrying likenesses of Prime Ministers. When we think of all the things we do to stamps it seems terribly undignified. I was not aware that the practice of issuing stamps in booklet form had been discontinued although, now that the honourable senator has mentioned it, it is a long time since I have seen a booklet of stamps. I will seek information from the Australian Postal Commission on why that practice was discontinued. 
-Senator Bishop has raised a matter which, as he has said, has been raised in the Senate on a number of occasions because of the concern felt by honourable senators from South Australia about the Whyalla situation. I did see a report in the  Advertiser  of 14 November about the situation and, in fact, the honourable senator drew my attention to it. I must say, however, that his own recollection answers the question in part. There is a continuing Commonwealth interest in the problems at Whyalla and I think it was true that  Senator Jessop  went with the Minister for Industry and Commerce to that town in June or July- I think it was June- and had discussions with the local authority and with industry in the town. As far as I know, and as  Senator Bishop  has said, there has not been any report to the Senate or to the Parliament about what is currently happening. Certainly I will seek information for the Senate and make it available as soon as possible. 
I am a little concerned about the report to which  Senator Bishop  drew my attention because it appears from it that some action is being taken by the State Government which is exacerbating the problems in the town. The local Australian Labor Party member for Whyalla is reported in the newspaper, when commenting on the severe social problems, as saying that he believed that the Community Welfare Department in Adelaide had encouraged and advised people to take advantage of the cheap Whyalla housing. If that is happening it does seem to me to be a most short-sighted approach on the part of the South Australian Government and I would urge  Senator Bishop  to urge his Labor colleague in that State not to take that approach to the relocation of those people seeking housing in Adelaide. It seems fairly clear that while Whyalla remains in a relatively depressed position it is not wise to be encouraging migration to the town, particularly of people who already have social problems. 
There is some light at the end of the tunnel in the report to which  Senator Bishop  referred me. I notice that the State Director-General for Economic Development commented in the same article that the loss of employment has not been as bad as expected and that in fact there has been some absorption into the steel works of the people who have lost their jobs at the shipyards. Reference is made in that article to the constant on-going endeavour to try to find employment in Whyalla. I think I can assure the honourable senator that the Commonwealth would be anxious to co-operate with State authorities in alleviating that position. 
They are very proper questions on which I hope to be able to give a reply to the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the election statistics for the Senate election and general election of members of the House of Representatives held on 10 December 1977. These election statistics form part of the information and electoral education services of the Australian 
Electoral Office. Each senator will receive a copy of the appropriate State volume. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of the full set of these volumes have been placed in the Records Bills and Papers Office and the Parliamentary Library. 
Also, for the information of honourable senators, I have a statement outlining the information and electoral education services which the Australian Electoral Office has been developing over the last two years and in particular the most significant advances that have occurred in the areas of ethnic groups, Aborigines and school children. These are matters of great interest to senators and members of the House of Representatives and I will welcome comments and suggestions as to how procedures might be further improved. In light of the general interest which I think will be shown in this statement,  Mr President,  I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

STATEMENT BY SENATOR THE HON. F. M. CHANEY, MINISTER FOR ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES, ON THE TABLING OF 'ELECTION STATISTICS' AND ON ELECTORAL EDUCATION SERVICES, NOVEMBER, 1978 
Election Statistics' has been produced by the Australian Electoral Office and comprises 7 volumes, one for each State and one for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I have arranged for each  Senator and  Member to receive the relevant volume for his or her State or Territory. 
This book gives a most detailed breakdown of the election results and will provide a basic reference for students of political science as well as for Senators and Members. The statistics have been compiled by Division and Subdivision and details are given of the percentage vote obtained by candidates, parties and groups. 

 Mr President, there is a tendency, I believe amongst all of us, to regard the Australian Electoral Office as an organisation which concerns itself almost solely with the maintenance of the electoral roll, the running of elections and the counting of votes. This is not so. Our electoral system has far wider implications than this and the Australian Electoral Office has a very significant community role to play. ' Election Statistics' forms part of the information and electoral education services which the Australian Electoral Office has been developing, particularly over the last two years. 
This activity of electoral education- the development of programs designed to assist people to give meaningful effect to their rights and obligations under the electoral law- is one to which I would like to refer now. 

 Mr President, those Senators who were present during the hearings of the Estimates Committee E dealing with the estimates of the Australian Electoral Office will recall the interest evoked when some of the initiatives of the Electoral Office in this important field were referred to. I believe that the achievements of the Electoral Office in this field are significant and that they demonstrate a desire by the Office to assist voters. They have been developed without fuss and fanfare and have been aimed at the needs of the community rather than at publicity for the Electoral Office itself. 
I am particularly anxious however that these developments should be brought to the attention of Members of Parliament because of the effect they are likely to have on the people we represent and because Senators and Members may have other useful suggestions to bring forward for consideration. In this regard I can assure honourable senators that I and the Government will continue to support the initiatives which have already been commenced and will look for the introduction of further developments in the electoral field. 
In recent years the Australian Electoral Office has been developing and implementing programs designed to assist people in understanding the electoral process. It has been making most significant moves especially in the areas of ethnic groups, Aboriginals and school children as well as aiming to reach the community as a whole. 
Honourable senators may have seen already the very simple information pamphlet which the Electoral Office has produced and which describes clearly and succinctly the electoral rights and responsibilities of those in the community who are entitled and obliged to enrol and to vote. This pamphlet, which is a far cry from publications which earlier generations may have expected to receive from a public service organisation, sets out to explain electoral matters in a way which can be readily understood by all. 
The pamphlet has been translated into 9 major ethniclanguages in order to provide the widest possible spread of information. The English version of this pamphlet has already been distributed widely, particularly in conjunction with habitation reviews, which are the roll checking cyclical programs carried out by the Electoral Office on the basis of inquiries at all households. The multi-lingual pamphlet which will become available shortly will be further distributed through Government offices and copies will be made available to migrant organisations. Supplies have also been offered to all local government authorities to assist them in their work with the ethnic groups in their areas. 
Additionally, under an arrangement with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer is writing personally to each person who acquires Australian citizenship, sending a copy of the pamphlet together with an electoral claim card and post free return envelope. 
This leads me to outline for honourable senators other aspects of the work which the Australian Electoral Office has been undertaking on behalf of our ethnic communities. In keeping with the Government's directives in relation to providing services for members of ethnic communities, the Australian Electoral Office has made wide use of ethnic radio and ethnic newspapers not only at the time of elections but also during non-election periods. 
For example, for three months this year special enrolment advertisements for citizens from Malta and Cyprus were displayed in Turkish, Greek and Maltese newspapers. Enrolment advertisements in more than 20 languages have been played regularly on the ethnic radio stations 2EA in Sydney and 3EA in Melbourne. This kind of material was broadcast frequently prior to the elections in 1977 and was continued between April and August 1978. The broadcasts will be repeated at the end of this year and played again in 1 979. 
Honourable senators will also probably recall that in addition to the quite extensive advertising in ethnic press and ethnic radio prior to the elections, the Australian Electoral Office undertook the display in polling booths of voting information on posters in a variety of languages depending upon the ethnic concentrations in the particular areas. These posters were supplemented by pamphlets, again in foreign languages and again designed to make the voting process meaningful and understandable to all persons. Voters in polling places have also received personal assistance because the Australian Electoral Office has endeavoured to ensure that Poll Clerks fluent in one or more languages have been employed at those booths where large numbers of former migrants are expected to record their votes. 
This assistance to ethnic voters is a continuing activity. For example for the Referendum on Self-government for the Australian Capital Territory, the Australian Electoral Office has produced tapes on voting information for broadcasting in ethnic language programs on the Canberra community radio station 2XX. lt is also printing bi-lingual leaflets containing similar information for distribution to ethnic community organisations prior to polling day. 
The Australian Electoral Office also has been adopting broadly the same approach in relation to Aboriginals, particularly at the last Federal elections and at the August 1 977 Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections. Not only were Poll Clerks fluent in the Aboriginal languages employed, but special instructions were issued on the assistance which should or could be given to assist persons who were not literate in the English language. Special cassettes, films and video tapes were produced both in English and Aboriginal languages in order to explain voting procedures and to assist voters to record a meaningful vote. 
I believe that the large reduction in the informal vote for the Legislative Assembly elections was in no small way due to the work of the Electoral Office. But more than that perhaps is the value to the Aboriginal people themselves. On this point I was particularly heartened to see a copy of a newsletter produced at the Maningrida Aboriginal community and published in September 1977. The significance of that particular issue was that amongst other things it said Good Job Electoral Office' and then went on to praise the Office for its work in assisting the Aboriginal voter. 
I was also very pleased to note the attention which this work has been attracting in academic circles. In the ABC's Notes on News' in June of this year,  Dr Dean  Jaensch, Senior lecturer in Politics at Flinders University, commented that 'notable progress is being made in the area of political education of Aboriginal voters in the north. The Australian Electoral Office shoud be given praise and support for the work it is doing in this area . . .' 
Honourable Senators are also aware that funded by the Commonwealth Government, a special electoral education program was conducted in the Kimberley area of Western Australia by the Adult Aboriginal Education Section of the Technical Education Division of the Western Australian Education Department. The training material for that program was developed in co-operation and consultation with the Australian Electoral Office. 
In the longer term, however, the Australian Electoral Office has recognised the need to develop programs of electoral education on a continuing basis for Aboriginal people in order to consolidate on the important and significant results which had already been achieved. A special program has been designed and is expected to commence in March 1979. $100,000 has been provided in the 1978-79 budget to fund the initial stages which are aimed at non-urban Aboriginals. The program will be conducted in the first instance in South Australia and Western Australia and will be extended to the Northern Territory and other States as it develops. It will involve two mobile education teams which are planned to include Aboriginal members. The program has been designed by the Australian Electoral Office which has been working in close co-operation with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the National Aboriginal Education Committee. 
I mentioned earlier,  Mr President,  the responsibility seen for the development of electoral education programs for school children. In conjunction with the Curriculum Development Centre, the Australian Electoral Office has been developing a special electoral education kit for secondary schools. The kit, which is aimed at Years 9 and 10 students, is in the final stages of development and is aimed at helping the voters of tomorrow understand the workings of our electoral system and assist then in the enrolment and voting process. It is expected that in March 1979 there will be a distribution of a free copy of this kit to every secondary school in Australia. 
It is also hoped to complement this program with general dissemination of electoral and enrolment information through the display of attractive, and it is hoped, eyecatching posters which I believe are a welcome improvement on the staid approach of the past. 
In this vein, Honourable Senators may also have heard the enrolment advertisements which have recently been broadcast on commercial radio in all States except New South Wales where, because of the State elections, the broadcasting was delayed until last week. These advertisements have been produced in what is hoped is a catchy style particularly suited for use on commercial radio. They are aimed at reminding those turning 18 of the need to enrol and those people who have changed their address of the need to tell the Electoral Office of this change. 

 Mr President, speaking now as the Minister responsible for the Electoral Office, I can say that I personally am particularly pleased with the work that that quite small organisation has been doing in the area of electoral education. That comment, however, is not made with any sense of complacency. There is a great deal of electoral education to be undertaken. There is also a large program of other work ahead of the Electoral Office itself if it is to continue its endeavours to improve its service to the community. I repeat, however, that it is heartening to see under way activities which are being developed solely for the benefit of the community. I repeat also my thought that Senators and Members may have further useful suggestions to make in this regard. Within the limits of the resources available to it, both financial and staff, I am confident that the Australian Electoral Office will continue its important work in this field. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of its tenth Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. This aircraft is scheduled for delivery in May 1979. The Boeing 727-200 series aircraft has now been in operation for a number of years and it has proved to be a most suitable aircraft for Australian conditions. In comparison to the earlier 727-100 model, it is noticeably quieter, provides greater passenger capacity and is less demanding on energy resources. This aircraft type will still be useful in meeting the airline's needs, even if it were decided, at a later date, to upgrade the aircraft fleet of the domestic airlines by the acquisition of the larger wide bodied je ts. 
The Australian National Airlines Commission, Trans-Australia Airlines, which operates the same number of Boeing aircraft as Ansett, will not require a Commonwealth loan guarantee on this occasion, as they have indicated their intention to finance their tenth Boeing 727-200 aircraft from their own internal resources. Both Ansett and TAA have sought to acquire the additional aircraft to meet the anticipated long term increase in demand for domestic air traffic and older type aircraft in the fleet will be progressively disposed of to keep fleet capacity and demand in balance. 
The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of $US 11.12m or its equivalent. This amount represents 80 per cent of the estimated total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. The proposal will not involve the Commonwealth in any expenditure. It will merely create a contingent liability for the Government to the extent of the outstanding balance of the loan. Australia's aviation industry has been recently subject to some of the most comprehensive reviews in its history. As honourable senators will be aware, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  recently tabled the report of the review of Australia's international civil aviation policy. Following Government consideration, negotiations have now commenced which I expect in the near future to lead to greater opportunities for all to use international air travel at the lowest possible cost. 
On the domestic scene the reports of the domestic air transport policy review committee have been released and the Minister for Transport is looking for public reaction to the recommendations contained in the reports. These views will be taken into account before decisions are finalised. The domestic airlines have already shown some speed off the mark in their reaction to the reports. Since the release of Part I which covers trunk route services and the two-airline policy we have seen a number of innovations with regard to domestic fares. An example is the introduction of stand-by fares on selected sectors for a trial period in order that their operation, and potential for further extension throughout the airlines networks, may be assessed. A further example is the extension from 1 November 1978 of the advance purchase excursion domestic fares to Canberra and Darwin so that all capital cities and Launceston will be eligible for this concession. The Minister for Transport is looking to a further extension of concession fares wherever it is practicable to do so. 
The first meeting of the Aviation Industry Advisory Council- AVTAC- was held in September this year. This body has been established to provide advice on policies, plans and programs relating to industry and to act as a forum for discussion of important matters which are the joint concern of the industry and the Government. Certainly after only one meeting the value of AVTAC has been clearly demonstrated and the Minister for Transport is looking forward to the role it will play in developing Australia's aviation industry. 
Honourable senators will recall that the domestic air transport policy review committee concluded that the two-airline policy should be continued although with some significant changes. Negotiations are now proceeding with the airlines on the review recommendations with a view to finalising changes to the airlines agreements which will of course be brought before this Parliament for ratification in due course. However the airlines obviously must continue to modernise their fleets to meet customer demand. Adequate forward planning is essential and the commitments to the industry involved in this legislation are an integral part of that process. I am sure that the honourable senators will agree with me that the Australian airlines are making a significant contribution to the development and welfare of this country, with an air safety record equal to the world's best. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
The matter is properly one to raise in the Senate. I think that  Senator Carrick  has already indicated to the Senate that he proposes to refer the points which have been raised to the responsible Minister. I do not see the matter in the stark terms in which it has been referred to by the honourable senator. I think that he himself has conceded that there could well be criticism if the Government announced its intention to pursue a certain course, eventually proceeded to enact legislation through the Parliament and there was then a long delay before any action could be taken because of the lack of staff or any sort of developed methodology to tackle the task. I do not think there is any suggestion that what has been done in the present situation is illegal. The question has been raised as to whether a change of policy of this sort ought to be prepared for before the actual legislation is passed. All I can do is acknowledge the point and agree that it should be put to some study. 
I direct the attention of the Senate to the fact, however, that the Australian Legal Aid Office was established without any legislation. It was carried on for years- I think it is still carried onwithout enabling legislation as such. Officers are recruited. I think that they remain formally members of the Attorney-General's Department. They perform a function. In other jurisdictions such as Canberra and Western Australia where legal aid commissions have been established by legislation, the function is performed under statute. Again, it might be thought that in the long term that is an undesirable situation. On the other hand, there is no doubt that that is an avenue open for government to proceed along. 
I think that there was a legal challenge by Victoria to the Australian Assistance Plan which suggested that it was not open to the Government to proceed to implement that program without enabling legislation. My recollection of the case is that the High Court said clearly that that was not so. Whilst I acknowledge that a principle is involved and that the matter is properly raised by honourable senators, I do not see it in the sharp terms that have been used by them. 
 With respect to recruitment, my advice is that there is, for the reason I have mentioned, emphasis on recruiting people with degrees and people with experience. On the particular problems relating to officers on sick leave, I understand that when it becomes clear that an officer will not return to the Service he can be placed on the unattached list and a replacement for his position can be recruited. However, if an officer is simply away temporarily he remains part of the staff for the purposes of staff ceilings and therefore a replacement cannot be recruited. In relation to diversion of officers to the efficiency audit, I think that throughout consideration of the appropriations  Senator McLaren  will be commenting that if there are staff ceilings there must be a restriction of function. As I said in the Senate yesterday, if one accepts the principle that the Public Service shall not be allowed to grow beyond a certain size, that government expenditure on government itself should not be allowed to grow above a certain size, that means that there must be an assessment of priorities and directing of work in the areas which warrant priority. The Government supports the move of the Auditor-General into the area of efficiency audits. That is a Government decision to give some priority to that area of work. It has diverted officers to preparing for that task and developing a technique for doing that work. I think that most people outside would welcome this development in ensuring that there is more efficiency within the Public Service so that there is a better return on the spending of government money. That is a policy decision by the Government. It is a decision taken within certain staff ceilings. Therefore it simply means that we have given that area priority over other functions. 
I cannot add a great deal more to what I have already said. The only additional information I have obtained is that the staff ceiling for the Auditor-General's Department has been increased by 12. So there has been an increase and a process of recruitment is going on. The Auditor-General has been given a new task. He has been given an increase in the staff ceiling which will not encompass the totality of that new work. Therefore, undoubtedly there is some diversion of resources. I do not think the matter can be taken any further. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $78,604,000. 
Department  of  Trade and Resources 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 1 8,890,000. 
Department  of  Employment and Industrial Relations 
Proposed expenditure, $282,7 1 6,000. 
Department  of  National Development 
Proposed expenditure, $49,967,000. 
Department  of  Special Trade Representations 
Proposed expenditure, $462,000. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) One statutory corporation is required to report through me to Parliament- the Australian Tourist Commission. 
The Australian Tourist Commission Act requires the presentation to the Minister, as soon as practicable after the 30 June, of the annual report and financial statements which must be tabled in Parliament within IS sitting days of their receipt by the Minister. 
20 February 1978 for the 1 976-77 Annual Report. 
22 February 1978 for the 1976-77 Annual Report 
5 ) The Australian Tourist Commission. 
The Auditor General's report was not received by the Minister until 1 October 1977. Printing of the annual report, which includes the audited financial statements, was not completed before the proroguing of Parliament on 8 November 1977. The repont was tabled immediately after Parliament resumed in February, 1978. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) (a) The radar separation standard between identified aircraft, or formations of aircraft being controlled as one, is 5 nautical miles except that, when high definition ( 1 5 rpm) terminal area radar is in use, such as that at Sydney and Melbourne, the minimum separation is 3 nautical miles provided that the aircraft are within 30 nautical miles of the radar site. 
Aircraft operating under the visual flight rules (VFR) along airways in controlled airspace, in accordance with procedural separation standards, normally are required to be separated longitudinally by 10 minutes or by 1,000 ft vertically (2,000 ft if flying above 29,000 ft). For aircraft that are using Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) the 10 minutes standard can be reduced to 20 nautical miles. Any of these standards may be increased depending upon the circumstances and, in some instances, the longitudinal standards may be reduced. An aircraft flying along a controlled airway may conduct its flight in visual meteorological conditions (VMC) but it must be separated from other aircraft by Air Traffic Control (ATC) by applying the instrument flight rule (IFR) standards mentioned above. 
Aircraft operating in a primary control zone established around an airport are provided with separation by ATC. This may be in the form of radar separation (3 or S nautical miles as applicable), vertical separation of 1,000 ft or more, or by aircraft maintaining laterally separated tracks. In VMC by day ATC may also provide separation by instructing the pilot of an arriving aircraft to follow a preceding arriving aircraft if the pilot has the traffic in sight and the controller is satisfied that adequate separation will be maintained. Within the airport traffic circuit the tower controller may also use his own visual observations to separate aircraft. 
The separation standard applicable to aircraft operating in accordance with the visual flight rules is that one aircraft shall not come in closer proximity to another aircraft than 600 metres horizontally and 500 feet vertically. 
The Australian air traffic control system's separation procedures and standards are similar to those used by the United States of America 's air traffic control system. However, when visual meteorological conditions (VMC) exist, the USA system allows a pilot to accept greater responsibility for maintaining separation from other aircraft than is permitted in Australia where positive control over all aircraft operations in control areas or primary control zones is exercised at all times by ATC. 
and (4) No specific definition, nationally or internationally, for a 'near miss' exists as far as my Department can ascertain from examining UK, USA and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) material. Therefore, it has been decided that the most practical definition for a near miss' in controlled airspace would be where either one aircraft or the air traffic control system deemed it necessary to initiate avoiding action, or where the aircraft passed closer to each other than the parameters specified in Air Navigation Regulation (ANR) 139, i.e., 2,000 feet horizontally and 500 feet vertically. 
In summary, therefore, a 'near miss' in controlled airspace is as defined above and in uncontrolled airspace it has been confined to the occurrences where the ANR 139 parameters have been infringed. Attachment 'A' sets out the occurrences classed as 'near misses' as reported in Australian airspace from 1973-1977 inclusive and Attachment 'B' sets out similar information on 'near misses' reported in airspace under the jurisdiction of the Sydney-Bankstown air traffic control system. 
The accident at San Diego on 26 September 1 978 occurred in circumstances where the aircraft were providing their own separation on the basis of advisory information. 
In Australian controlled airspace aircraft are positively separated by Air Traffic Control in accordance with internationally accepted standards. 
As a consequence of recent incidents that have occurred in Australian controlled airspace, these standards are being reviewed, but at this stage there is no evidence to indicate that they are deficient or have in any way contributed to the incidents under consideration. 
Attachment 'A' 
I do not wish to react any more than to say that I am aware of the great interest of South Australian honourable senators in such a building. I do not think that I really can add anything to my previous statement on the matter. Certainly at this stage there is no proposal to dispose of that land. Any proposal to build on it is not as far advanced as  Senator Bishop  and his colleagues on both sides of the chamber would wish. But I really have no further information to give the honourable senator. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Administrative Services, Rent (Defence)- proposed expenditure, $40,500,000-agreed to. 
Department of Administrative Services, Acquisition of Sites and Buildings (Defence)proposed expenditure, $7,8 12,000- agreed to. 
Department of Administrative Services, Furniture and Fittings (Defence) 
Proposed expenditure, $5,200,000. 
That again is a matter on which I have no information. I will seek some information for the honourable senator. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Industry and Commerceproposed expenditure, $ 19,554,000- agreed to. 
Department of Transport 
Proposed expenditure $311,581 ,000. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) and (2) An ad hoc committee of Cabinet to study VHF FM broadcasting was formed. However, that committee did not meet and I am now preparing a further submission for consideration by my colleagues. 
I do not think those speeches require a response except that I would say that the most difficult job in the Commonwealth must be that of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  I acknowledge the temperate remarks that have been made about a Minister who has, I think, a most unenviable task of decision making. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-On 27 September 1978  Senator Mason  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
In view of the fact that the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission mentioned in a staff memorandum on 5 September the possibility of staff retrenchment and the reduction in scale or cancellation of programs as a result of reduced staff ceilings imposed once more on the ABC by the Government, can the Minister give an assurance that a review of ABC staff ceilings planned for the end of this month will be sufficient to avert these possibilities and permit maintenance of ABC programs at least at their present level? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware of difficulties which proposed staff ceilings could create for the ABC and is taking these into account in the current review. 
I will place the matter before the Minister for Enironment, Housing and Community Development, as  Senator Mulvihill  has requested, and seek a response from him. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Housing for Servicemen- Advance to the States (Defence)- proposed expenditure, $ 1 1 , 600,000-agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to 8 p.m. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Government has not yet decided its policy relating to the introduction of commercial FM broadcasting. Consequently, I am unable to advise the honourable senator when such services will be introduced. However, the Government believes in free competition and new independent operators will certainly be given an opportunity to compete for licences at that time. 
I would like to say that I think Telecom Australia itself set out as good a justification as it could before the Estimates Committee. I have made no attempt tonight to repeat the evidence of  Mr Banks  which, I think, is available to the Committee of the Whole. That is why I have not gone into the matter in greater detail. I note the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and I would hope that Telecom would note them also. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill-by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests, but with a resolution expressing certain opinions; report adopted. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) The information for the financial year 1976-77 is as follows- 
The amount of the grants and the method of their disbursement which was announced recently does not represent a change in policy. The Government clearly wishes to assist voluntary conservation bodies and the reduction of $50,000 has to be seen in the light of the general restraint which has been exercised by the Government in a number of fields of expenditure. The suggestion that this will cause a number of groups to receive no money in the future could only be on the basis that these groups will not be able to raise any money and thereby qualify for a matching subsidy. I point out to the honourable senator that the announcement that the change in the subsidy arrangements is for the next financial year has been made at this early stage so that it does not affect the immediate operations of such groups. In fact, it is in the next financial year that they will have to look to raising money so that they attract the $1 for $1 subsidy instead of a $2 for $1 subsidy which will apply up to that point. 
I think  Dr Geoffrey  Mosley is being unduly pessimistic in his assessment of the situation. Of course, his organisation is the one which has had, I think, the most substantial reduction in the grant which is being made to it from $ 1 50,000 to $ 100,000. In that regard, because it probably is a matter of some interest to honourable senators, I point out that the Australian Conservation Foundation is in fact the largest recipient of grants. It has income from non-Commonwealth sources of something over $200,000. So in terms of an ability to carry the burden of some of the reduction that organisation is, I think, the best based. With respect to the Australian Conservation Foundation, I also point out that on my information it has a declining membership. Bearing in mind that the question asked relates to the whole position of voluntary organisations, it is important that such organisations maintain public support and the support of an active membership. The decline over the last few years in the membership of the Australian Conservation Foundation ought to be a matter of concern to it and to anyone who believes that it has an important role to play in conservation in Australia. 
I am not aware of any of the facts which have been raised in the question asked by the honourable senator. They are matters which I would have to check. Certainly, on the facts he has put before the Senate it appears that there has been a misleading advertisementindeed, it goes beyond that- and a course of conduct which led people to believe that jobs would be available which apparently have not been made available. I assume that the honourable senator would like an explanation of why that has occurred, as well as an answer to the primary question he put, which was whether this is in line with the matters that have been condemned by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I can only say that on the facts made available it certainly does appear that people have been misled. I will get the facts for the honourable senator and try to find out why that occurred. 
I think that it is very easy to say that all sections of the community should be treated equally and to accept that as a principle. But it does not necessarily solve the problem which was raised by  Senator MacGibbon.  I think in the answer that I gave to  Senator Martin  I dealt with only one aspect of the problem with respect to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its sporting broadcasts. I now understand that there are also administrative difficulties in providing different programs in certain parts of the ABC's organisation. They are complications quite apart from the financial implications which I mentioned to  Senator Martin.  Although I do not have any statistics in relation to additional provisions for people in remote areas, I have little doubt that on a per head basis the costs incurred in providing programs to people in country and remote areas is high compared with the cost of providing them in the more concentrated areas. Needless to say, one accepts that people in remote areas have to be given some provision. I simply say in response to the honourable senator's question that that is a difficult equation and one which is not going to be solved by some sort of mathematical approach in terms of equal treatment. I do not think that it would be economically possible to provide the same variety of programs throughout the country as is available in the more closely settled areas but obviously it is important that people in remote areas should receive an adequate service for their needs. 
I have received today some additional information but it is not all of the information which has been sought in the question of  Senator Ryan.  This matter has been raised in a previous question, I think at the time the appeal was lodged by  Ms Chung.  I have been advised today that in fact the appeal has been refused after going through all the procedures under the Australian Broadcasting Commission rules right up to the Commission level. I would need to give some consideration to whether a Minister might make an independent evaluation of the matter. I can see possible objections to threatening the independence of the ABC in that matter. That is not to say that the ABC ought to have complete freedom in the matter of racial discrimination any more than should any other section of the community. It may well be that if there is discontent about the matter it would be more appropriately dealt with under the statute which has been passed by this Parliament than by a Minister acting and thereby raising the possibility or suggestion that there is political interference with the ABC. 
I think that the answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question is no, there is not an acknowledgment in this that the prices at which the Australian Government Clothing Factory supplies uniforms are not competitive. In fact, the situation is that some bodies which formerly were required to deal with the Australian Government Clothing Factory, particularly the Post Office, now go to public tender or are free to go to whichever supplier they choose. In fact, the Government Clothing factory still manages to maintain quite a substantial part of its business, which I think is a good indication of its efficiency. 
However, it is true that the defence forces do give priority to the Australian Government Clothing Factory. In that circumstance I think it is of particular value that the factory continues to do some work for bodies which are in a competitive tendering situation because it does provide some sort of guideline against which one can examine the Government Clothing Factory and its efficiency. I think it is worth noting that in Appendix J to the annual report of the Australian Government Clothing Factory, to which  Senator Lewis  was kind enough to direct my attention, it is pointed out that the Factory is operating at a relatively high level of work load and employment. I think that there is a fair amount of confidence that that will continue to be the situation. 

 - Senator Archer raises a matter of considerable importance because the two-way trade that Australia has with ASEAN countries is now of the order of $1.4 billion a year. Obviously, that represents a very significant element in our overseas trading. The Senate is probably aware that, late in October, the Australian Government agreed with ASEAN to have in cases where there was a trade interest, a system of early warning on possible industry assistance measures by Australia. This simply extends the situation in which domestic interests already have a process of consultation and information available to them, in the course of which their views are sought. The present proposal simply extends that so that other areas with an interest also have an opportunity to contribute their views. It would be useful for the Senate if the quite brief statement setting out what consultation is required were incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

Basically, three questions have been asked; the one by  Senator McLaren  involving a number of parcels of land and two separate questions by  Senator Mulvihill.  The questions deal with matters of detail on which I do not have information at the moment. I will seek answers to the questions and let both honourable senators have them. With respect to the land transfers in Sydney referred to during the hearings of Estimates Committee E, within the last week I have signed a letter to the appropriate State Minister confirming that I wish to speak to him as soon as possible. Most honourable senators will appreciate that it is difficult to find time to arrange for talks and consultations during the session, particularly this latter part of the session. But it is my intention to spend some time in Sydney during December. I hope then to be able to clear up the matters to which  Senator Mulvihill  has referred. 
In fairness to the State Minister, my recollection of his most recent letter is that he is a little puzzled as to why talks are necessary at all. My recollection of the matter is that questions of the value and so on involved in the mutual exchange of land are still to be decided in this whole program. When I looked at the matter in some more detail a little while ago my conclusion was that I did need to talk to the State Government. I can only assure  Senator Mulvihill  and other honourable senators that I realise that this matter is regarded as one which has dragged on for some time. I intend to give it early attention. 
I thank the honourable senator for the warning. 
With so much mutual understanding developing around the chamber I am almost loth to speak. However, I must respond to the speeches which have been made by honourable senators and indicate a view on the motion which has been moved by  Senator Bishop.  We all agree that there is a high degree of unanimity in the Senate at a certain point, and I pick up the very recent remarks of  Senator Bishop  when I say that. I certainly confirm that the Commonwealth Government sees the development of the Stuart Highway in South Australia as a high priority task and a matter of great importance. That is not a matter for argument. It is a matter of record too that honourable senators from both the Government and the Opposition have made representations on the matter individually and together over a considerable period. I think Senators Jessop, Bishop and other honourable senators have done so and have asked questions in the Senate and so on. So this matter has had considerable airing. There is a high degree of unanimity between Government senators and Opposition senators that this is an important highway and that something needs to be done about it. 
In the Commonwealth Government's view it has a role in the development of this highway and there was a reference to a Minister's statement that work would begin in 1978. My understanding is that construction work commenced on 16 October. So work is being carried out on the Stuart Highway in accordance with the current annual program. The history of how that program was arrived at has been referred to in previous debate in this chamber. Some of that history is set out in a letter which was read in part or wholly by  Senator Kilgariff  a little while ago.  Senator Kilgariff  received a letter from  Mr Nixon  in about mid-October which clearly set out that it was at Commonwealth urging that provision was made within the South Australian national highway program for work to start on the Stuart Highway. In that letter  Mr Nixon  stated: 
When South Australia did not include any construction work for the Stuart Highway in last year's National Highways program, I wrote to the State Transport Minister,  Mr Virgo,  expressing my deep concern and urging him to ensure that a substantial start was made on reconstruction of the highway in this year's program. 
What follows in the letter to some extent challenges some of the remarks  Senator Cavanagh  made. He said that there was a reluctance on the part of anyone to suggest that priorities should be altered. I do not quote the honourable senator's words exactly but I think that was the gist of them; that people were not able to find portions of the program which ought to be deferred or not dealt with in favour of the Stuart Highway.  Mr Nixon's  action was to urge particular changes in the program to allow provision to be made for work to start and about Sim to be spent on the Stuart Highway this year. I will not refer to the letter again but it has been placed on record that  Mr Nixon  made specific recommendations to the South Australian Minister in that regard. 
-As I understand it  Mr Nixon  agreed with the original proposition made by South Australia but said that additional provision should be made. In fact provision for additional expenditure has been made, although I do not think the South Australian Government has specifically agreed to the method which  Mr Nixon  suggested as to how the money ought to be found. 
In any event, as has already been said in the debate, some $I9.5m have been provided for national highways in South Australia this year; $66m has been provided to South Australia in the last four years, as well as nearly $7m for maintenance. So, Commonwealth moneys are being provided and the State has a large say in determining how they are spent. What is clear in the dealings between  Mr Nixon  and the South Australian Government is that  Mr Nixon  has avoided requiring the South Australian Government to comply with his directions. He has made suggestions and those have resulted in the South Australian Government agreeing to start work and to reserve $900,000 or $lm for work this year. The difficulty I have with the motion which has been moved by  Senator Bishop  is fairly simple. In fact, it was foreshadowed by the remarks of my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  and, before him,  Senator Jessop,  who in fact raised the difficulty involved, namely, that  Senator Bishop  is asking this chamber to express the opinion that: the Australian Government - 
I would prefer to read that as 'Commonwealth Government', if  Senator Bishop  will forgive me:  . . should provide special funding to enable a continuing program of construction of the Stuart Highway to be undertaken 
What  Senator Bishop  is doing in moving that motion is seeking to single out that one road as being something which ought to be dealt with quite differently from the way in which the Commonwealth is dealing with national roads throughout Australia. I think it is fair to comment, as a number of speakers before me have commented, that that is a very difficult measure to ask the Committee to take. There are other national roads which are of national significance. 
I certainly am not prepared to stand here and make a judgment whether one particular highway, because it connects South Australia and the Northern Territory, is uniquely important. 
I would think that there would certainly be people- I give this merely as an example- in my State of Western Australia who would regard some of the very bad roads there, which there still are in the national highway system, as being just as important to national development and just as important in terms of potential for encouraging exports, mineral development and all the rest. Those aspects ought to be looked at in balance with the Stuart Highway. I put it no higher than that. I suspect that people in Western Australia would urge me to say that the situation there is even more important. 
I make the point that at this stage- I think that the Minister for Transport has made this clearspecial ad hoc grants are not made outside normal funding arrangements. So, we have a general pattern of national highway funding in Australia which relies on grants being made to the States. In a process of consultation and so on between the Commonwealth and the States, national highway programs are actually laid down.  Senator Jessop  has indicated that he is in the process of urging upon the Minister for Transport- he has urged upon the Minister already- that there ought to be some adjunct, some additional collateral program. 

 -What Senator Young said in this chamber is that he has urged on the Minister a new approach which would involve having a separate fund. That is a major policy matter. I trunk that it raises issues which are not the subject of this motion and, quite frankly, that it raises them in a way which is much more rational. I do not believe that in this sort of debate we can pick out a single road project and say that, in the Committee's opinion, that project ought to be treated quite separately in all these national accounts. 
I have no doubt that  Senator Bishop  has moved his motion in this form because to move for an additional appropriation would be beyond the powers of this chamber. Therefore, he is seeking to do what he can do in this regard. But if he moved a motion- he is indicating by nodding his head that he would do so if it were not for the constitutional restrictions- requesting additional funds for this road, it would become quite clear that what we were asking for, if the motion were accepted, was an additional allocation in the Budget; in other words, either for a greater Budget deficit or for the imposition of more taxation. They are the only alternatives that we have. I really think that it is in that broad context that the motion can be seen to be inappropriate. Whilst I am quite certain that, as all honourable senators who have spoken have indicated, there is a wide sharing of the Government's view that the Stuart Highway in South Australia is an important national project which needs support, I do not believe that it is right to suggest that it should be dealt with uniquely in this special funding way without consideration of the general problem how we are going to treat national roads. 
I want it to be very clear on the record that it is for that reason alone, and not because there is any doubt in the Commonwealth's mind about the fact that the Stuart Highway project is important and has high priority, that I oppose the motion. I suggest to honourable senators that the record is clear. Representations have been made. The further matters which have been raised in this chamber can be referred to the Minister for Transport for further consideration. I think that the matter really cannot be taken further this afternoon. 
There have been a number of speeches concerned with the railways expenditure. If I might generalise, it seems to me that one can, in the broad sense, deal with them in the following ways: First, there were a number of second reading-type speeches on transport generally. I do not think that I should endeavour to respond to some of the broad propositions that  Senator Elstob  and others have put forward on the whole subject of transport policy. They are matters of record and can be submitted to examination. 
There were also, however, a number of quite specific points which honourable senators asked me to refer back to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  A number were brought forward by  Senator Robertson,  some by  Senator Kilgariff  and some, in the final stages of his remarks, by  Senator Bishop.  I acknowledge all of the points made and will refer them to the Minister for Transport. I comment on one or two points of detail that were raised by honourable senators.  Senator Elstob  appealed to the Government and to the Australian National Railways Commission not take a narrow view. I assure him that a goodly number of the factors which he brought forward as complicating the question of closures are matters which are given careful consideration. In other words, one does not consider a given railway line in complete isolation. It may be of some consolation to him to know that the whole series of matters that he brought forward are, of my own knowledge, taken into account when questions of closures are considered. 

 Senator Robertson raised as one of his initial points the problems which he said had been experienced in Alice Springs by people who were to be transferred, and sought assurance that there would be discussions with the people affected by the changes that would occur when the new railway line was completed and the new terminal was installed. I am advised that the ANR has a consistent policy of working in close collaboration with the unions and all who work for it. I understand that that will be a continuing policy and that the sort of assurance which  Senator Robertson  sought is therefore available to him. 

 Senator McLaren, in the course of a number of contributions, expressed great concern about the fact that the Government and the ANR wanted to increase efficiency and reduce costs. The one disappointing feature of the debate- a point that might be borne in mind for the similar debate next year- is that not a single suggestion was put forward by any honourable senator as to how some of the $60 m to $70m deficit might be dealt with. I assure honourable senators that that is not an invitation to re-open the debate; next year will be quite soon enough for those contributions to be made. I suggest that honourable senators apply themselves earnestly to that aspect of the problem in the meantime. 
The other matter that occurred to me during the course of the debate was that, with a large number of South Australian senators participating in both this and the previous portion of the Committee's consideration, I am left very pleased that I represent the State of Western Australia rather than South Australia. We are in the fortunate position of having a State government of extraordinary vigour and efficiency. I point out, for example, that in the national roads program there was a very long period during which the black road stopped at the South Australian border. I commend for the study of honourable senators the approach that has been taken by the Western Australian Government in these matters. Also, in respect of railways, I would say that Western Australia, where railways are run by the State, has gone through the trauma of rail closures in country areas. The speeches that have been made this afternoon have been extremely reminiscent of speeches that were made in Western Australia a few years ago. I simply say to honourable senators that very often there is a quite adequate alternative, even in rural areas, and that such matters do call for careful study. The concern that is expressed at the time is often not particularly long lived. A large number of items have been raised in the debate. I am sorry that I cannot deal with them in great detail. However, a number of senators said expressly that they wished their remarks to  be referred to the Minister and I will certainly see that that is done. 
A number of speeches have been made tonight on this final part of the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79. It would be fair to say that the matters raised in this debate are matters which, perhaps more than most matters which are debated in this chamber, touch on the lives of the great majority of Australians. From that point of view, it has been a most useful and relevant debate. It has centred on the institution of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and on the matter of sporting programs in particular, although the last  speaker  spoke more generally of the ABC. But that is an area which is of interest, I think, to the great majority of Australians. The other area which has been tackled is that of the Australian Telecommunications Commission which, again, affects most Australians. The points that have been raised generally are matters of substance which are worthy of consideration. They will be referred to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and to the Postal and Telecommunications Department for proper consideration. 
I look firstly at the matter which first was raised by  Senator McAuliffe  and subsequently was raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland- in fact, it is a matter which has been raised at Question Time recently- namely, the broadcasting of sporting programs.  Senator Douglas  McClelland saved me a little time by drawing the Committee's attention to what I think is still an uptodate statement of the ABC's publicly stated position on the broadcasting of sporting programs. He referred to the forty-fifth annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for 1976-77 and in particular to page 1 1 of that report. I do not wish to go over that again, but that is a statement from the Commission itself to which those honourable senators who are interested in this subject might like to apply themselves. Reference is made there to the economies which have had to be effected and also to the organisational problems and the problems which can be involved in maintaining two networks engaged in partial broadcasting by the ABC. 
In that regard I found the comments of  Senator McAuliffe,  who effectively challenged part of what is contained in that report- he was supported in that by  Senator Douglas  McClelland- of particular interest. I will ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to have them examined.  Senator McAuliffe  really did raise doubts about the inability of the ABC to conduct two broadcasts. In fact, he cited examples of the blacking out of metropolitan areas and the broadcasting of different programs in country areas, which I think were pertinent. I will be very interested to see the explanation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the light of the general stance taken here by  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I can say- I think I already have said at Question 
Time- that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications regards this as a serious matter and is keeping it under examination. 
The other major matter dealt with was a matter which has been raised frequently at Question Time, namely, telephone metering. I think it is quite clear that honourable senators are raising a matter which is of concern to at least some subscribers of the telephone system. Although  Senator Martin  suggested that in the Sydney area 1.6 per cent of subscribers queried their accounts every month I think that the evidence given before the Estimates Committee indicated that the figure was 0.8 per cent. In any event, even on the lower figure, it represents quite a large number of accounts. It represents about 80,000 bills a year. 
I think that  Senator Gietzelt  was a little harsh with respect to the Telecom officer who appeared before us in the Estimates Committee hearings. I thought that he gave extremely good evidence. It would be true to say that  Mr Banks  defended the Telecom system. I suppose that that was his duty. He was there to tell us how the system worked. But I thought he gave us a great deal of information on the system which was of assistance to those honourable senators who are interested in this subject. I do not think that  Senator Gietzelt  meant the word 'glib' in any offensive sense to the officer. I thought that he added valuable information to that which was available to us. 
I can tell the Committee that, as I have indicated in response to questions, a system of accounting is available in a technical sense. It has been referred to by  Senator Townley  on other occasions and, I think, by  Senator Wriedt  in conversation if not in public statement in this chamber. I am advised that the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry recommended for the Australian Post Office that an automatic meter system should be introduced in association with the introduction of international subscriber direct dialling, then extended to cover subscriber trunk dialling calls. That is a fairly heavy authority on which those honourable senators who are seeking this change might like to draw. The Vernon Committee report, as I recall it, was the report which in fact led to the establishment of both the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission, so at least a good number of its recommendations must have been pretty effective. I refer honourable senators to that report. I have not seen the relevant passages, but they might be of assistance in putting forward this case. 
In fact, nearly 18 months ago, in March 1977, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications asked Telecom to give him a report on the issues involved in introducing automated message accounting. A number of interim reports have been prepared, as well as a more substantial report on the costs, practicability and the pluses and the minuses of such a system which came forward in August 1978. That response is still being examined by the Department. It is proposed that the Minister should seek further clarification from Telecom on a number of issues which have been raised. To those honourable senators who are properly concerned about this matter I would say that for a fairly considerable period, since March 1977, there has been some movement by the Government. Reports are now before it and we might be able to report some greater progress in the not too distant future. 
I will not go into detailed reply.  Senator Ryan  raised a number of points. I realise that she was suffering, as I am beginning to suffer too, from a damaged throat. I think that a large number of the points she raised were in common with the points she raised in the matter of public importance which she brought before this chamber some weeks ago and which will be remembered by most honourable senators. I doubt that honourable senators will recall my response, but I refer them back to the  Hansard  record. At least a number of points that were raised by  Senator Ryan  tonight were raised by her then and I did give some response on behalf of the Government to her at that time. I can confirm for her that the reports on the proposal for satellites, which she was concerned about not being available, have now been made available. I am advised that they are in the bookshops. Some time ago I told her that more copies were being printed. So that problem is over.  Senator Ryan  acknowledged that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications had extended the time allowed for comment, which was another matter about which she and, I think,  Senator Gietzelt  expressed some concern at that earlier time. 
I do not think there are any other matters to which I wish to refer now, except to affirm the Government's interest in the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its recognition of the fact that that Commission is an extremely important element in Australian society and is performing a function which no other organisation across the nation performs. I would not like it to be thought, as I think  Senator Gietzelt  was suggesting, that action by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has been prompted only by industrial action. Long before industrial action was taken  Mr Staley  had indicated that he was pursuing the matter of staff ceilings, that he was talking to the Commission and that he intended to take the matter up with the Government. I would simply like the fact that he was moving before strike action was taken to be placed on the record in the course of this debate. I thank honourable senators for their contributions to this debate and assure them that their contributions will be carefully examined. 
I have no information as to whether or not the concession or the proposed economy rate will apply to booked calls. It is quite possible that it will not, because of the different cost structure of booked calls. In any event, I will refer the question to the Minister and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
I have not seen the report. I do not know whether it is correct. I can assure the honourable senator that the Government is running the country. 
I think that that is clearly a question which should more appropriately be put on notice and I invite the honourable senator to do so. 
I think it is useful to have the additional information which  Senator Bishop  has put before the Senate because it indicates that, for whatever reason, there may well be a developing social problem in Whyalla. I would like to make it clear also- I think  Senator Bishop  did say this in his comments- that when I quoted from that article I did so very much in the sense of simply attributing the words to the article. Of course, I accept the explanation which has been given by  Senator Bishop. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Senate adjourned at 4.34 p.m. 
I assume that the question relates to other questions I have received lately in answer to which I have indicated that the matter of the provision of cars for use at overseas posts is under examination. I can say to  Senator Sibraa  that the resale value of cars is an important factor which must be taken into account in assessing what sorts of vehicles should be bought. 

 - Senator Townley is playing on my chauvinistic instincts like a harp when he asks why we should not have such a concession in the 09 area. Like him, I can only say: Why should we not have such a concession in the 09 area? I must say that if the subscribers of Australia - 
I was about to say that if the subscribers of Australia had been listening to  Senator Townley  in the past, I do not think that any of them would accept three phones, whether they are free of rental or otherwise. It seems to me that they are carrying a heavy potential cost burden for telephone charges for the number of calls they make or that the Australian Telecommunications Commission says that they make. In any event, this is a matter which is in the discretion of Telecom. I will send the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He might be able to obtain a reply from Telecom. Obviously this is a marketing matter; Telecom, like the Australian Postal Commission, is engaged in rather more marketing than was the old Post Office. No doubt this is a means of getting quickly to the second million telephones in the Sydney area. 
by leave- I wish to make a personal explanation. My attention has been drawn to a report in the  Australian  newspaper of 17 November- that is today- which is headed 'ABC accused of racial bias'. The report refers to a question asked of me yesterday by  Senator Ryan  about the complaint by a  Ms Chung  in relation to an allegation of racial discrimination by the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Senator Ryan  asked whether I was satisfied with the decision of the Commission. Alternatively, she may have meant the Minister whom I represent in this chamber. In the answer I was very careful to make no judgment on the particular case. I referred to the fact that there was an avenue available, namely, the Racial Discrimination Act. The inference from the headline and what follows is that I am the one who is accusing the ABC of racial bias. Quite clearly, that is something which, on my access to the facts, I am not able or prepared to do. I therefore dissociate myself from the headline. For the information of honourable senators let me say that in fact I am advised that the complainant concerned has laid a complaint with the Commissioner for Community Relations and that that complaint is being considered by him. That, in my view, is the proper avenue to be followed in the matter. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975 I present the report of the Australian Heritage Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946 I present the report and financial statements of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) for the year ended 31 March 1978. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 I present the report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I do not quite agree with the proposition put by  Senator Walters.  I think that it could well be argued that we should have greater resources for encouraging tourists from the Asian region to come to Australia. It is true, as  Senator Walters  has said, that there are only three staff in Tokyo and no other staff employed permanently by the Australian Tourist Commission in Asia. Staff from the Commission's head office in Melbourne make periodic trips to the area. It is worth noting that, notwithstanding the small staff number in Tokyo, the number of Japanese visitors to Australia has increased in the past five years by over 100 per cent, from over 15,000 tourists in 1972 to over 30,000 tourists in 1977. It is hoped that the Government's recent initiative to include the travel and tourist industry in the export market development grants scheme will encourage the industry to promote more actively tourism from Japan and elsewhere in Asia. 
I understand that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has written recently to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. However, I am not familiar with the precise contents of his letter. I understand that there have been requests from the Commission about funds and there may well have been requests from the prior  chairman  of the Commission.  Senator Button  and other honourable senators no doubt will be pleased to know that, under the terms of the settlement of the dispute which has been bedevilling the ABC over the past few weeks, there are to be discussions between the management and the staff on matters of concern to the Commission, including the impact of staff ceilings and the provision of additional funding. I have no doubt that the Australian Broadcasting Commission, pursuant to its responsibilities, will continue to press the Government for whatever it thinks is a proper provision for the Commission. 
I think that it is drawing a long bow to call that question a supplementary question. In fact, I am not sure whether it is relevant to the present situation because the evidence given by officers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission before the Senate Estimates committee was very much in terms of what might have to be cut out of program making. Consequently, the problem mentioned by  Senator Button  may not arise. However, I will seek from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the information that the honourable senator has requested and give it to him if it is available. 
I noted a few 'Hear, hears' from a Western Australian senator behind me. I know that the question asked by  Senator Young  would strike a very responsive chord in many parts of Australia. It is my understanding that there is some difference between the responsible State Ministers as to whether stage 3 of the emission control regulations should be implemented. Some of the differences of opinion can be explained, of course, by the fact that very different conditions apply in different States. For example, in the city of Sydney, I think, there are probably some very real problems in terms of the effect on the quality of air. I am not in a position to confirm the precise figures quoted by the honourable senator with respect to fuel costs and so on, but I will seek some information from the Minister for Transport. I will also refer to the Minister the honourable senator's suggestion that the additional emission control equipment might be fitted as an optional extra. I have some doubt as to the practicability of that suggestion, but I am not in a position to say that it is not possible to do it. 
If it is possible, that may be a very satisfactory solution because the particular State governments can carry the burden of convincing their electors that that is a necessary additional cost. I think that this is a matter of some complexity because of the limited size of the motor vehicle market in Australia and the difficulty of proliferating the specifications of motor vehicles for sale. I will refer that also to the Minister for Transport and get a detailed reply. 
This question is not unlike many questions asked by  Senator McLaren  who manages to find out all sorts of detail. I must say that I was not aware that the meeting place was just next door to  Mr Miller's  hotel. I was not aware also of quite a number of the matters raised by the honourable senator and I thank him for drawing them to my attention. However, I also say to the honourable senator that, as I recall,  Mr Miller  has been working in an unpaid capacity, while doing this work for the Commonwealth Government. As I understand it, there was a most effective and economical presentation of the proposals that the Commonwealth has in mind for 1988. 1 understand also that the overall cost of our presentation was considerably less than anything done by a comparable country. I do not have any further information with me at the moment but I will examine the matter which has been raised by  Senator McLaren.  My information is that we have conducted an effective and economical exercise, and I would like it to be very clearly understood that this has been done by someone who is not receiving remuneration. I think that it is unusual for somebody to give his time - 
With the greatest respect I suggest that the mounting of this sort of presentation to an international body to establish that Australia can hold an exposition, the cost of which will run into hundreds of millions of dollars, will involve something more than the oneday meeting which was attended by  Mr Miller.  I remind honourable senators opposite that a good number of their constituents seem to think that senators are working only when this Parliament is sitting and that they will be going off on their holidays at the end of this week. I draw that parallel. Perhaps honourable senators will continue to work for their constituents notwithstanding that this Parliament is not sitting. I suggest that  Mr Miller  may well have had to do more than attend a single one-day meeting to put forward the sort of presentation which was put forward on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I do not think that the first part of the question comes within the ministerial responsibility of any Minister of this Government, but I will refer it to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to see whether he does have anything to do with the advertising or non-advertising of a book on commercial television. I would have thought that that was a matter of private activity and nothing to do with the Government. Whether there has been any approach to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I have no idea. I am prepared to refer that question to the Minister; but again I would have thought that it was a matter which lay outside the competence of the Minister. 
Honourable senators will recollect that a quite lengthy statement was made by the Minister for Transport on the future policy of the Government relating to international air fares. That statement foreshadowed that there would be a series of bilateral negotiations aimed at achieving cheap point-to-point air fares between Australia and various other countries. The first negotiations related to the Australia- United  Kingdom  route. I am not sure what other negotiations have actually commenced, but I will seek that information and let the honourable senator have a reply. As far as the air fare between New Zealand and the eastern States is concerned, my knowledge of geography is not sufficient to tell me what the comparative distances are, but I suspect that there is little, if any, difference between the distance from Sydney to Auckland and the distance from Sydney to Penh. Perhaps that is something that the honourable senator and I might jointly examine and see whether, indeed, a cheaper fare might well be justified on a distance basis alone. As to whether it will ever be cheaper to go from Melbourne to Sydney via Singapore I can only say that that might make what is usually a terribly dull journey at least a little more enjoyable. 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Life Insurance Act 1945 to bring the provisions applying to the Life Insurance Commissioner into line with more recent legislation relating to similar statutory offices. More specifically, the Bill will enable the terms and conditions of appointment and service of the Commissioner to be determined under the Life Insurance Act. The existing legislation does not contain adequate provisions to allow for determinations to be made of the remuneration and other conditions applicable to the appointment of a commissioner. This deficiency has not presented any problems in the past as occupants of the office of commissioner have until recently also occupied the position of Australian Government Actuary created under the Public Service Act and have been entitled to the salary and conditions applicable to that position. In view of the increased workloads of the positions of Life Insurance Commissioner and Australian Government Actuary, it is no longer appropriate for these two positions to be filled by the one person and when the positions became vacant last year upon the retirement of  Mr S.  W. Caffin it was concluded that the position should be 'split' and filled by separate persons. 
Earlier this year the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced the appointment of  Mr G.  L. Melville as Life Insurance Commissioner and  Mr J.  R. Ford as Australian Government Actuary. Pending amendment of the Life Insurance Act, the present Commissioner's salary and other conditions of appointment are subject to temporary arrangements agreed to by the Public Service Board and the Remuneration Tribunal. The Bill will enable the arrangements applying to the Commissioner to be placed on a permanent basis. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is twofold. First, the Bill includes provisions to establish a varietal control scheme for wheat by providing for the imposition of dockages on varieties of wheat processing undesirable characteristics delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. Second, the Bill provides for a change in the legal basis on which the Board makes payments to State bulk handling authorities and for a change in the basis of remuneration of those authorities. I should point out that these amendments are being made to provisions of the current wheat industry stabilisation plan. The 1978-79 season which we are now entering is the final year of the plan. There will, of course, be new legislation introduced next year to cover the arrangements to apply beyond the 1978-79 season. 
In respect of this Bill the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation requested that the Commonwealth and States introduce a scheme to discourage the growing of unacceptable varieties of wheat in Australia. The Australian Agricultural Council agreed in principle to introduce such a scheme with the objective of ensuring that the marketability of the Australian wheat crop is not prejudiced. The Council accepted that the homogeniety of the crop is an important characteristic in the Australian Wheat Board 's ability to sell the grain competitively on the international market. Unacceptable varieties would have a deleterious effect on the homogeniety of the crop and so affect its marketability. 
The scheme is based on the Australian Wheat Board making dockages on unacceptable varieties delivered to it. The guidelines for the operation of the scheme were drawn up by the Australian Wheat Board in close collaboration with both the Commonwealth and the States. As this matter is one where the Australian Wheat Board will be exercising powers that it derives from Commonwealth-State legislation it is necessary for complementary Commonwealth-State legislation to be enacted. As mentioned previously, all States have agreed in principle to the varietal control scheme. AH States, with the exception of Victoria and Western Australia, are proceeding with the introduction of this amendment without delay. Victoria and Western Australia propose making the necessary amendment to their legislation next year. 
Until the legislation of the two States mentioned has been amended it is necessary to make provision for this in the complementary Commonwealth-State legislation because of the nature of the pooling arrangements provided therein. Thus the amendment provides for the exclusion of wheat from the two States from the scheme for the time being. When the legislation for the arrangements to apply beyond the 1978-79 season is introduced next year this section of the Act will be adjusted to delete the exclusion because the varietal control amendment will be in place in all States. 
This Bill authorises the Board to make dockages in respect of wheat of a Commonwealth Territory. Equivalent provisions in the legislation of the various States will give the Board similar powers in respect of wheat delivered in each State. The scheme will rely on provisions being included in the enabling legislation of the Commonwealth and each State for the prescribing of classes of wheat fixed by reference to the variety or varieties of the wheat and provides for dockages to be made by the Wheat Board for classes which do not fit the prescription. It is not intended that dockages for varietal control purposes will be actually imposed in respect of wheat of the 1978-79 season. However, the opportunity will be taken by the Wheat Board to advise growers delivering unacceptable varieties this season that such varieties could be subject to dockages in future seasons. 
The change in the arrangements for the remuneration of State bulk handling authorities by the Wheat Board is also supported by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. This matter was examined by the Australian Agricultural Council and all States and the Commonwealth agreed to proceed with amendments to the complementary Commonwealth-State legislation to enable the revised arrangements to operate for the coming harvest. Hitherto the costs of wheat handling and storage have been pooled on an Australia-wide basis. Under the revised arrangements this Australia-wide pooling will no longer apply. Growers delivering wheat to the central receival system of each State will be charged a rate for storage and handling that is appropriate to the costs of the bulk handling authority in the State. The new arrangement will identify for growers the charges incurred by the authority that stores and handles their wheat and so enable there to be greater accountability to wheat growers for these charges that have been increasing. To effect this change it has been necessary to make amendments of a machinery nature to define the existing six State bulk handling authorities as State corporations for the purpose of being licensed to receive wheat on behalf of the Australian Wheat Board. The bulk handling authorities will also be empowered to appoint agents on the approval of the Board. This will formalise already existing arrangements in some States. 
As earlier indicated, the Bill also provides for a change in the legal authority on which payments are made by the Wheat Board to the State bulk handling authorities. Presently this authority is provided by agreements between the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry and each of the State Ministers responsible for Agriculture. This requirement was incorporated in the legislation to protect the Commonwealth's contingent liability under guaranteed price arrangements which took into account changes in bulk handling costs. 
The character of the industry 's stabilisation arrangements is now different and the need for formal agreements between the Commonwealth Minister and appropriate State Ministers to protect Commonwealth revenue no longer exists. Accordingly, the proposed amendment provides for the Australian Wheat Board and the bulk handling authorities to enter into agreements in respect of payments for remuneration for handling and storage of wheat. The revised arrangements will overcome deficiencies in the authority for payments by the Australian Wheat Board to bulk handling authorities which were identified by the Auditor-General. These revised arrangements have been agreed to by the Australian Agricultural Council at its meeting in August 1978. 
Under the existing arrangements the Wheat Board payment arrangements provide for a freight advantage allowance of up to 92c per tonne to be applied in respect of wheat shipped from Western Australia reflecting the advantage accruing to that State from its relative proximity to some overseas markets. There has been agreement to the removal of the 92c ceiling in keeping with the principle that has been adopted in moving to State accountability for bulk handling and storage costs. The Bill provides for the removal of the ceiling from the Commonwealth Act The Act is to come into operation on the day it receives royal assent. However, amendments set out in Clause 5 will have effect from 1 October 1978 which was the commencement of the 1978-79 wheat season. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965 so as to increase the level of funds available for poultry research. In addition to the principal amending clause of this Bill, the Parliamentary Counsel has also incorporated a number of formal drafting amendments in the interests of clarity and standardisation of expressions. The Poultry Industry Assistance Act and related legislation were introduced in 1965, for the purpose of imposing a levy on hens over six months of age in commercial flocks exceeding 20. The levy money paid into the Poultry Industry Trust Fund is disbursed as grants to the States for the stabilisation of the poultry industry. No Commonwealth subvention is involved in such payments. The Poultry Industry Assistance Act was amended in 1 966 to provide, among other matters, that in addition to the disbursement to the States, the money in the Trust Fund could be allocated for research purposes. The amending legislation laid down that the Commonwealth Government would meet one half of the expenditure on research, up to a maximum of $200,000 in a financial year. The present Bill seeks to raise that limit by 50 per cent. 
In 1968 the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia- CEMAA- established a poultry research advisory committee, to propose each year a suitable research program. The total allocation for research to date, that is industry plus Commonwealth funds, amounts to $2,171,053, including $260,649 for the 1978-79 program. The funds have been and are being used for research into the control of diseases, for work on nutritional studies, for investigation of egg quality aspects, together with some research dealing with genetic improvement for hens. Over the years, research projects have produced some notable benefits and others show promising results. Summaries of the work are to be found in the several reports of the committee. These reports, although not statutory documents, have been tabled for the information of the Parliament from time to time. In addition to its reports, the committee arranges for a continuing flow of articles on current research topics for publication in industry journals directed to poultry farmers. 
Rising costs through the nine years since the poultry research arrangements began have had the effect of eroding the volume of research effort that can be supported by the unchanged and limited research funds. The industry considers that insufficient resources are being devoted to research generally but more especially in the marketing and economic research field. A detailed market research survey was recently commissioned using existing poultry research funds. This survey developed from the earlier quantitative studies funded by the State egg marketing boards. The current survey is examining consumer attitudes to eggs, egg products and egg marketing systems. It is designed to give a better understanding of the factors that influence buying patterns and to provide a sounder basis for future marketing techniques. 
The poultry industry does not consider it practicable to reduce the already low level of funding for technical and biological research to the extent necessary to accommodate a continuing research program into marketing. Accordingly, the industry offered to increase its annual contribution by $50,000 so that an effective marketing and economic research program can be maintained. The Government has agreed to match that offer. With passage of this Bill, the total amount available for poultry research in any one financial year, commencing with the current 1978-79 financial year, will become, instead of the present $200,000, a maximum of $300,000 with the Government's share being up to $150,000. It is estimated that in the current financial year the increase will involve additional Government expenditure of about $23,000. The industry is to be congratulated for its initiative in offering to increase its expenditure on research. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank the three honourable senators who have spoken for their contribution to the debate. Today  Senator Hamer  raised a matter which has been debated on a number of occasions, namely the extent to which the Commonwealth should be involved in the precise allocation of funds which are made available to the States for road purposes. In that debate to date the Government has maintained a position that, to the extent that it is involved in the provision of section 96 road grants, it should have some say in expenditure priorities for those funds. The Government takes the view that this Parliament, which raises the funds and then makes them available for that purpose, has some duty to ensure that its priorities are observed.  Senator Hamer  gave a very clear message to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and I will certainly ensure that what he raised will be drawn to the Minister's attention for future consideration. 
The contribution by  Senator Lewis  was pitched more at the practical problem of meeting Australia's roads needs. The honourable senator raised a number of interesting propositions, at least one of which I had not heard before and which, once again, I think should be referred to the Minister for examination. I note that he also asked that a suggestion be referred to the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  I will see that that also is done. I acknowledge and adopt the honourable senator's opening statements that dealt with the general financial position of the Government and the way in which roads grants fitted into the general budgetary strategy that the Government has adopted. 

 Senator Gietzelt raised a number of queries when the Senate was debating the Bill last week. In particular he was concerned about the adjustment figure. Bearing in mind the Commonwealth's undertaking to maintain the value of the grants in real terms, he felt that the figure of 7 per cent was inadequate. That is a matter which is open to endless argument. We could all be very satisfied, perhaps in retrospect in a year's time, as to what the position was. In any event the commitment to maintain grants in real terms is a substantial commitment. The figure of 7 per cent exceeds the Treasury Budget forecast of a 6 per cent increase in the consumer price index. This, of course, allows for the fact that price movements differ in different sectors. I do not believe there is anything I can usefully add to that comment. 

 Senator Gietzelt was also concerned about the declining share of total Budget outlays going to roads and this, of course, is true. The fact of the matter is that certain items of Commonwealth expenditure have been taking a larger proportion- areas such as health, education and welfare in particular have had an increasing share of Commonwealth expenditure. It necessarily follows that other areas have been getting a declining share. In general it might be said that capital works have suffered. It may be of some consolation to  Senator Gietzelt  to know that the government which he supported in fact really commenced this trend. An increasing share of total budget expenditure went to roads up until 1972-73 when it reached a figure of 2.74 per cent. In 1973-74 the share declined to 2.5 per cent; in 1974-75 to 2.03 percent; and in 1975-76 to 1.99 per cent. It has not been possible, given the Government's general economic policy, to reverse that trend. But the roads' share of the Budget has stabilised at around about 1.8 per cent in each of the last three years. I think the Government and most honourable senators would agree that it would be desirable for more money to be provided for roads, and hence the interest which I have expressed in the suggestion put forward by  Senator Lewis. 

 Senator Gietzelt also made reference to the fact that the States are placing increasing burdens on their citizens. I think  Senator Gietzelt  said that this is being forced on them by the Commonwealth. The honourable senator said that the States were being forced to increase their motor vehicle registration charges in order to meet their road commitments. There has been continuous debate in the Senate about the obligations of the States as against those of the Commonwealth. In fact ever since this Government came into office there has been a substantial and continuous increase in general purpose assistance to the States which gives the States greater flexibility in determining their own priorities. It is a matter for the States whether they allocate those funds to roads, to the health, education and welfare fields. Therefore, if one looks for example, at the education budgets of the States one would conclude that the States have chosen to give a massive priority, say, to that area. Again there seems to be a great priority in the health area. It is not for the Commonwealth to interfere with that priority, or to carry the whole of the blame for the declining proportion of national expenditure on roads. It is a matter concerning which I think there is an increasing public consciousness and, therefore, perhaps the politics of the situation will change and roads will enjoy a higher priority. I do not wish to delay the Senate by referring o the other small matters that were raised. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speeches in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978 
In a detailed statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 27 September 1978, it was indicated that the Government has decided to put beyond doubt that employers are entitled to deductions for the cost of their employees' long service and other leave only at the time when payment for the leave is made. This Bill will give effect to that decision. 
The need for the amendment arises from a decision of the Supreme Court of Victoria in the case of Nilsen Development Laboratories Pty 
Ltd v. The Federal Commissioner of Taxation. In its decision, the court held that an employer is entitled to a deduction for the cost of an employee's leave in the year in which the employee becomes entitled to the leave or in any year in which there is an accretion to a previouslyaccrued leave liability, notwithstanding that no payment is made to the employee. Appeals against the Supreme Court decision have been lodged by the taxpayer concerned and the Commissioner of Taxation and, in the normal course of events, the Government would prefer to await the decision of an appellate court on such an important matter before considering an amendment of the law. However, there are several important reasons why the Government has decided that on this occasion it should not wait for the appeal processes to be concluded. 
Firstly, the decision has significant revenue implications for the Government. If deductions for leave were to be allowed against 1977-78 income on the basis ofthe Supreme Court decision, the cost to revenue in the current year would be of the order of $600m. A revenue loss of such proportions in 1978-79 could not be contemplated. Secondly, the decision creates considerable uncertainty among taxpayers because of the disturbance of a practice that has long been regarded as settled and has been accepted by the very great majority of taxpayers over past years. This uncertainty would continue until the appeals have been finally decided. Taxpayers would be aware that there must be a possibility that if one part of the original decision were upset on appeal-the part which indicates that deductions may be taken when payment is made for previously-accrued leave- they could lose very substantial deductions in future years. 
The Bill specifies that the amendment allowing deductions for leave liabilities when payment is made is to apply in respect of assessments for the 1977-78 income year and subsequent years, other than assessments made before 28 September 1978. This will protect the revenue from the loss of up to $600m in 1978-79, but it will also ensure that employers do not lose deductions when employees arc paid for leave which had previously accrued and for which deductions had not been allowed. 
The amendment will not apply in respect of assessments yet to be raised in respect of earlier years and it will not apply to assessments already raised in respect ofthe 1977-78 and prior years where the taxpayer's rights are protected by way of objection or appeal to a court. The finalisation of these latter cases will have to await the decision of an appellate court, and it could well be that further amendments will be required when that decision is given. Although the nature of these further amendments will depend on the final decision of the court, it is envisaged that amendments may be necessary either to ensure that employers do not suffer any loss of deductions or to ensure that employers do not gain any double benefit, for example, by having had a deduction when payment is made and by also being found entitled to deductions at the time of accrual. 
The Government realises that by providing for the amendment to apply to the 1977-78 income year, it will be seen as having retrospective effect. For this reason, the Government was very reluctant to take this course. At the same time, it must be stressed that the amendment will not result in the loss of any deductions for taxpayers. It is a question only of the timing of deductions. 
There are also the other aspects that I have mentioned- the fact that the amendment will do no more than restore previously long-accepted practice, the fact that it will guard against the possible loss of deductions and will resolve the uncertainty arising from the decision and, finally, the significant revenue implications for 1978-79. Moreover, the Bill does not foreclose on the options available to the Government in the future as to adoption of the accruals basis of deductions. Details of the amendment are contained in the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated. 
Finally, I draw to the attention of honourable senators that this Bill was amended in the House of Representatives to provide that income tax deductions are to be available in respect of gifts made to the  Sir Robert  Menzies Memorial Trust. That amendment is reflected in the Bill now before the Senate. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1978 
The Bill that I now bring before the Senate contains further measures to counter tax avoidance and to improve the equity and balance of the income system. It also contains legislation designed to encourage investors to put capital into the production of Australian films. Honourable senators will recall that earlier this year the Government introduced a number of major amendments directed against prevailing tax avoidance practices. I spoke then in a general way about the problems that are posed by tax avoidance arrangements, and the Government has subsequently further demonstrated, by the steps it has taken, the seriousness of its intent to strike down these arrangements. I shall, however, speak first about the policy initiative concerning capital investment in Australian films. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The main purpose of the Bill is to increase the penalties that may be imposed upon persons convicted of offences against the quarantine laws of Australia. The existing penalties have remained unchanged for almost a decade and are not now commensurate with the gravity of quarantine offences, nor do they provide an adequate deterrent to persons contemplating a deliberate breach of quarantine. Quarantine breaches should be regarded as particularly serious in view of their possible outcome. Notwithstanding the remarkable success achieved in the world fight against smallpox, many other human diseases continue to pose serious problems overseas. These, and the newly emergent and dangerous viral haemorrhagic fevers, such as lassa fever and marburg virus disease, emphasise the need for continuing vigilance and an effective and responsive quarantine service. 
Honourable senators will no doubt know that despite the best efforts of health authorities in the countries concerned, rabies continues its steady spread across western Europe. We have succeeded in keeping this dreaded disease out of Australia for a century and continue to apply the most rigorous controls on the importation of animals which could be a source of infection. The establishment of this disease in Australia, which could follow an illegal importation of a cat or dog, would have profound effects on all Australians, requiring them to adopt a whole new lifestyle and a change in their attitudes to domestic pets and indigenous animals. 
In the animal and plant health fields, I am sure all honourable senators appreciate that Australia's rural production and the advantages we enjoy on overseas markets for our livestock and agricultural products depend critically on our comparative freedom from serious pests and diseases. It has been estimated, for example, that an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Australia could cost this country up to $600 m per annum. Such a disaster would have grave economic and social consequences for all Australians. It has been shown that illegal importation is a most important factor in the world spread of animal and plant diseases. In this regard I refer honourable senators to a recent incident in Australia where Newcastle disease was diagnosed in a consignment of illegally imported Indonesian birds. If this disease spread amongst our bird population there would be an immediate and substantial drop in our export earnings and complete disruption of our poultry industry. Prompt action by quarantine authorities in this case averted any spread of the disease from the smuggled birds nevertheless, the importance of this incident is well illustrated by overseas experience. A Newcastle disease outbreak in California in 1971-72 involved the destruction of some 12 million birds and cost the American people well over $56m. 
It is only in comparatively recent decades that the natural quarantine protection afforded by Australia's geographic location has been eroded. The comforting isolation of our island position and the natural barriers of time and distance have become less relevant as transport has become speedier and more flexible, and trade and travel has increased, particularly from areas where many exotic diseases are well established. In the face of these developments, honourable senators will know that conventional entry of persons, animals and goods into Australia is rigorously controlled. No country can guarantee continuing exclusion of all exotic diseases. However, the Government is firmly committed to continue all practical measures necessary to minimise the possibility of such diseases being introduced and to maintain the quarantine record which continues to be the envy of other countries. 
Honourable senators will be aware from the announcement by my colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  on 9 July, that the Government has become increasingly concerned at the activities of foreign fishing vessels and others off our northern shores. Any unauthorised landing on the Australian coast constitutes a risk of disease introduction. This factor, coupled with the special problems of distance and remoteness across our northern shores, and our relative proximity to countries where major exotic diseases exist, was a major consideration in the decision announced by my colleague to upgrade Australia's northern surveillance. The new arrangements, which will be implemented as soon as appropriate arrangements can be made, will include a daily aerial search by charter aircraft of the northern coastline between Geraldton in Western Australia, and Cairns in Queensland. The purpose of this program, from a quarantine viewpoint, will be to alert quarantine authorities to any matters of quarantine significance and provide a basis for immediate quarantine follow-up where necessary. 
The Government is acutely aware that there is a greater need than ever before to maintain an effective quarantine system and the legislation which provides the framework for that system must be adequate for the task. The Government, however, accepts that a sound quarantine system requires not only tough penalties for quarantine breaches but must also provide a framework which will encourage public co-operation. In this respect, honourable senators will know that we have embarked on a comprehensive program of quarantine station development intitiated amongst other things, to facilitate importation of small animals into this country. Extended waiting periods for quarantine station accommodation increase the incentive for illegal importation. 
As an example of the seriousness with which the Government views breaches of quarantine, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the proposed maximum penalty in respect of offences against section 50 of the Act. This section prohibits the landing of any imported plants or animals in a place other than a proclaimed port. The Bill proposes to increase the maximum penalty for a breach of that provision from $500 or 6 months imprisonment to $5,000 or 2 years imprisonment. As another example, I would draw the attention of honourable senators to the proposed maximum penalty provided under sub-section (1) of section 67 of the Act, which prohibits a person from knowingly bringing into Australia any goods, animals, plants, disease agents, et cetera, in contravention of the Act. Offences of this sort strike at the very foundation of our quarantine barrier and call for an extremely severe penalty. It is therefore proposed that the maximum monetary penalty be increased from $2,000 to $10,000. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has directed his department to maintain a rigorous approach to quarantine enforcement backed by firm prosecution action where appropriate. All quarantine personnel have been assured that they have the strong support of the Government in carrying out their quarantine duties and responsibilities. 
I now turn to the manner of dealing with offences, at present offences against section 79, forging documents, and section 83, misleading a quarantine officer, are expressed as indictable offences and cannot be dealt with in a court of summary jurisdiction. In line with provisions in other Acts, the Bill proposes that these offences may be prosecuted in courts of summary jurisdiction and that these courts, when disposing of a matter, be empowered to impose a maximum fine of $2,000 or 1 year imprisonment. However the Bill also provides that where an offence may be prosecuted summarily or upon indictment and that prosecution is brought in a court of summary jurisdiction, that court may commit the defendant for trial or, if it is satisfied that it is proper to do so may, with the consent of the prosecutor, as well as the defendant, determine the proceedings summarily. At present the consent of the defendant only is required. This amendment would protect the right of the prosecution in appropriate cases to require proceedings to be determined in a jurisdiction where higher penalties are available. 
The Bill further provides that the maximum penalty which may be imposed by regulation under the Act be increased from $1,000 to $2,000. Amendments to the penalties applicable for specific offences against the regulations are being prepared. Finally, the Bill provides that the value of goods which cannot be effectively treated and which may be destroyed without prior ministerial approval be increased from $20 to $200. The present $20 limit is administratively inefficient and out of line with present-day values.  Mr President,  the Bill before the Senate reflects the Government's firm commitment to an effective quarantine system for Australia. A realistic set of penalties for quarantine breaches is a most important component of this system. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
in reply- This Bill is a fairly common piece of legislation to pass through this Senate. I think most honourable senators would have seen similar Bills passed through this chamber, guaranteeing part of the loans for the purchase of new aircraft. On this occasion the guarantee is for Ansett Airlines of Australia only, Trans-Australia Airlines having decided to finance its purchases internally. Both  Senator Gietzelt,  who spoke for the Opposition on this Bill, and  Senator Collard,  who has just resumed his seat, used the Bill to make some general comments on aviation policy. I mean no disrespect to either honourable senator, but I do not intend to respond to the particular matters they raised. I think they are matters which are properly brought before the Parliament, but which do not call for answers in this debate. 
I must say that the comment about soggy sandwiches from  Senator Collard  reminded me of some of my own complaints some years ago in that direction. Like the honourable senator, I sense a small but discernible improvement in that direction on the part of the airlines. I have no doubt that if the improvement could be increased we would get Bills like this through the Parliament even more quickly. I thank the Senate for its speedy consideration of this Bill and I commend it to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Each State and Territory classifies parks and reserves according to their own requirements. 
The terms 'National Park' and 'Wildlife Refuge' do not have precisely the same meaning throughout Australia and consequently accurate comparisons of the areas set aside for these purposes cannot be made. 
The following material includes the various categories of reserves administered by fauna and national park authorities and has been compiled from information provided by the responsible State and Territory authorities. 
Unless otherwise stated the information provided represents the situation as at 30 June 1978. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A series of biological surveys of selected areas ofthe Great Victoria, Gibson and Little Sandy Desert have been undertaken by the Western Australia Department of Fisheries and Wildlife since 1975 and further survey work in the Great Sandy Desert will be undertaken during 1979. 
Work has also been carried out to establish whether the species occurs in the Warburton area. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) An Acting Supervising Scientist was appointed on 29 June 1978, under the provisions of Section 1 4 of the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act 1978. The permanent residence of the Acting Supervising Scientist is in Sydney; he does not propose to permanently reside in Jabiru in the Northern Territory. Plans are in hand to extend his existing laboratory at Jabiru, and to locate a significant field force there. 
The basic training of the Acting Supervising Scientist was in physics.  His  early research experience was in the field of meteorological physics. The Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry recommended that the Supervising Scientist have 'both administrative skills and scientific expertise in a range of fields relevant to the task '. These fields include water and soil chemistry, ground and surface water hydrology, geology, freshwater, estuarine and terrestrial biology, studies on the effects of heavy metal pollutants on animal and plant species, ecology, mathematical modelling of environmental systems, meteorology, radiological protection and mining, milling and dam engineering. 
The Acting Supervising Scientist is one of Australia's most experienced health physicists. He has worked as a hospital physicist and for many years directed research in the multidisciplinary field of radiological protection which included studies in environmental radioactivity. He has had considerable administrative experience within the Government bureaucracy, was Atomic Energy Adviser to the High Commissioner in London for three years and has served on a number of international panels and committees concerned with the environmental and public health aspects of nuclear energy. He is a member of Committee 4 ofthe International Commission on Radiological Protection,  Chairman  of the Committee on Radiological Protection and Public Health of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the OECD and  Chairman  of an ad hoc committee of this Committee concerned with the environmental and public health implications of uranium mining and milling. For a number of years he has chaired an Advisory Group to the International Atomic Energy Agency which has formulated limits and controls on the dumping of radioactive wastes in the ocean as required by the international 'Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter' and was associated with the development of the Agency's regulations relating to the safe transport of radioactive materials. He was also a member of the working panel set up by the Australian Department of Health that drew up the 'Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores 1975'. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Government, by notice in Commonwealth Gazette S 1 16 of 29 June 1978, acquired the fee simple interest in land comprising the Gimbat and Goodparla pastoral leases. No change in the ownership of the existing pastoral leases has been made. 
No changes in the lease arrangements are forseen. 
See (2) above. 
Northern Territory legislation requires the consent of the Administrator to the transfer of leases. 
The Government has not yet completed its consideration of the resumption of the Gimbat and Goodparla pastoral leases in line with the recommendation of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry that consideration be given to the resumption of Goodparla and part or all of Gimbat, with a view to their incorporation in the park. 
I have no information about the status of assistance to the Pritchard steam engine. I will seek a reply from the Minister. 
The answers to those two questions are: No, and I do not know, respectively. I will seek a reply with respect to the second question. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Trans-Australia Airlines operates on a commercial basis. Any requests received by them from the Commonwealth Police on such matters do not fall within the ambit of my portfolio as these matters are of a confidential nature between the airline and the Commonwealth Police. 
I am not able at this stage to add much more to the reply that I already have given. I point out to  Senator Evans  that the same problem arises with the point raised by  Senator Button,  that is, what is a fit and proper person. That definition could be as long as the Public Service Commissioner's foot. We should also remember that serving Public Service officers who are not unattached officers- in other words, those officers who are carrying out their normal duties- are subject to the same sort of test, so the problem is not peculiar to the part of the legislation we are looking at. 
I have indicated already to the Committee that the particular problem of officers who work in a Public Service union is the subject of discussion between the Public Service Board and the unions concerned. I can give only the sort of assurance that I gave before- I give it, I must say, without instructions but simply on my understanding of the attitude that the Government would adopt that there is no wish to repress the trade union activities of public servants. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I suppose that  Senator Cavanagh  's sense of humour so late in the session left me a little cold. We were following the excellent precedent established by a former Labor Minister,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1972 in which the same expression is used in section 6. Whilst it may be a good idea to be meticulous in these matters, the worst that can be said of the wording is that it represents a belt-and-braces approach to the drafting. Earlier I heard an interjection from  Senator Grimes,  who is more scientifically trained than most, suggesting that there may be some third category involved. In any event, I do not believe that in any sense the wording causes any confusion. It may give  Senator Cavanagh  and even some of his constituents some amusement. I would have thought that that was something for which we all would have been grateful. 
I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bill, which is one of the non-partisan measures to which  Senator MacGibbon  referred. I thank  Senator Button  for his brief summary of the Bill and for his reference to the debate in the other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its speedy consideration of the Bill and its commendation of both its intentions and its effects. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Each airline has an idle B727-100 series aircraft as a result of traffic growth showing a growth of four per cent instead of the budgeted ten per cent for 1978-79. I am satisfied that both airlines are using sufficient capacity to provide adequate services to the public. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (i)- 
I thank  Senator Gietzelt  and the Opposition for their support of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I cannot confirm that anything unique has been done by Walter Burley Griffin in the area referred to by  Senator Knight  but it certainly is true, or so I am informed by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, that Walter Burley Griffin did a design plan for an area of about 20 acres in the East Ringwodd-Croydon area of Melbourne. That is at present under examination. The Australian Heritage Commission has received a nomination for the East Ringwood subdivision to be listed on the register. The nomination will be considered by the Australian Heritage Commission on 28 November. The significance of the work of Walter Burley Griffin needs no emphasis in this city. It is possible that the design could be included in the register, but I emphasise that that is a matter for the judgment of the Commission and not for the Government. 
I am not able to answer all of the questions which  Senator Wriedt  has asked me. At the moment, a joint Commonwealth-State committee is examining the possible design of the second Hobart bridge and related studies. So far the total costs incurred by the committee have been met by the Commonwealth Government. The committee is still working and it expects to report some time early in the new year. At that time the Government will carefully consider the report as  Senator Wriedt  has requested. The honourable senator also asks whether the report will be put to further study by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I will have to seek a reply on that matter, as I would with respect to any undertaking given about the financing of the bridge. In saying that, I do not wish to qualify any undertaking which has been given. I simply have no information on that matter and I am not putting any qualification upon it. 
The speech by  Senator MacGibbon  has made the debate on the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1978 a little more varied than it otherwise would have been. I congratulate the honourable senator on his speech, not only because it was his maiden speech but also because I agreed with most of what he said. He said something towards the end of his speech about the Executive which I thought was slightly objectionable but apart from that I thought it was a thoroughly admirable speech. I particularly commend to the Senate the comments which he made about the fact that certain matters should be tackled on a non-partisan basis. I think it is true that a great number of the problems with which the Senate deals can be dealt with in that way. I hope that  Senator MacGibbon  provides a very good example to us in the future. 

 Senator Ryan catalogued her disagreement with the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1978. I would not regard it as having been one of the more difficult speeches that she has had to make in this chamber because effectively she simply listed the extent to which benefits were cut, explained why she thought it was desirable that benefits should be retained and indeed why benefits should be extended. I suggest with respect that that is a fairly easy proposition to make out in terms of doing something which is pleasant. I think the main feature of this Bill, which I do not believe was really dealt with by  Senator Ryan,  is that there is an essential duty on the Government and a duty on this Parliament to balance the interests of the Government's Public Service with the interests of the general community. I commend for  Senator Ryan's  serious attention the passage in the second reading speech which refers to the Government's view that the revised maternity leave scheme that is to be implemented by this Bill is fair and reasonable, balancing the interests of government as an employer against its duty of restraint to the Australian taxpayer. 
I acknowledge that  Senator Ryan  mentioned in her speech that indeed the benefits which are available under the legislation as it will be amended by this Bill are still extensively more generous than the benefits that are available generally throughout the Australian work force. I think there is a serious duty on both the Government and the Opposition to try to ensure that a fair balance is maintained across the spectrum of the Australian work force. I do not believe that it is desirable that Canberra should be held up as some oasis of enlightenment on the basis that it has unlimited access to the funds raised from taxpayers around Australia. I do believe that it is important that we should ensure that the Australian Public Service gets good conditions commensurate with the very heavy responsibilities it bears. I simply say to that Public Service and to the Australian public that the delicate task of achieving balance is one which I think this Bill does. 
I do think that to suggest that it is an enormous hardship on people to have one week's paternity leave removed is somewhat exaggerating. I think it is somewhat insulting to the resilience of the male members of the Australian Public Service to suggest that if they took some of their recreation leave at the time of the birth of the child the loss of the holiday aspect of the leave at some later time is likely to have some serious affect on them. I would have thought in fact that that sort of use of recreation leave would be something which would be as refreshing to any male member of the Public Service as a week at the coast. 
In any event, I do thank both  Senator Walters  and  Senator Ryan  for the attention that they have devoted to the Bills. I thank the rest of the Senate for not devoting any oral attention to the Bills and giving the Government the chance to deal with the legislation reasonably promptly. I commend the Bills to the Senate and I trust that they will be supported. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bills. 
Firstly, I shall deal with the matter raised by  Senator Button  on behalf of  Senator Mulvihill.  I understand that the expression in the statute which governs the entry of persons into the Public Service is that the person has to be a fit and proper person. That is obviously a fairly wide expression which could be interpreted to mean a number of things. I understand that the Public Service Board has the discretion to determine whether a particular conviction renders an applicant outside that category of person. The inquiry seems to me to be proper. I am sorry that I cannot answer it in more detail at this stage. I am happy to undertake to seek some further information from the Public Service Board on the interpretation ofthe words with respect to criminal offences. I am sure that that will meet  Senator Mulvihill  's needs. If it does not, I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  will speak about it in the adjournment debate tonight or tomorrow night. 
The matter raised by  Senator Evans  is not something on which I have close knowledge, but I am advised that this proposed new section is meant to cover the difficulty that arises at the moment because unattached officers who are working in a union situation are totally outside the provisions of the Act. There is no way, whatever conduct they engage in, that they can be subject to any form of discipline. I think that is the problem the proposed new section is aimed to meet. 
I am also advised that the Board has written to the various unions and that there are discussions in train with respect to the position of officers who are required by their duties as unattached officers to make public statements on matters which are critical of the Service and so on. I think I can give an assurance on behalf of the Government that this proposed new section is not meant to muzzle officers who are performing a proper duty as trade union officers or as officers of a Public Service trade union. It is a significant question and one on which I would be very happy to seek more detailed information from the Board and, of course, from the Government itself if that would be of assistance to the honourable senator. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bill and for its assistance in giving it speedy passage. I support the remarks of  Senator Gietzelt  to the effect that the work of the Remuneration Tribunal would be regarded as generally satisfactory. I think that most honourable senators and members in the other place would regard the Tribunal as having served them very well and as having performed the very valuable function of removing the question of salaries and allowances from the rather difficult situation they were in previously. The simple fact of that matter is that having an independent body to pass an independent judgment gives the findings a public validity which a decision by politicians about their own salaries could never have. I think it would be true to say that every senator and member has felt relieved at that change. 
I have noted the various points made by both  Senator Gietzelt  and by  Senator Mulvihill. Senator Gietzelt  would understand that the matters of resources and the problems of shadow Ministers which he raised are matters for government rather than simple ministerial decisions. I can only say to him that I have listened to what he has said and that I will certainly direct my mind to the points he has raised. 

 Senator Gietzelt also raised the question of accommodation in Parliament House. He acknowledged in this speech that you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  have particular rights in this area and I suppose it is only fair to say that you also have particular problems in this area. The decision which was announced in the other place today about a new and permanent Parliament House is a beacon on the hill, I suppose, for those of us who think that we might last another 10 years. I look around and think that there will not be all that many of us here then. I believe that the long term interests of the Parliament have taken a great step forward today. It may be that those of us who are here in the interim might not enjoy quite the conditions that we think are appropriate for us and perhaps even more significantly for those people who work for us, many of whom suffer quite difficult conditions. 
I do not say any of this by way of any complaint to you,  Mr President,  because, as I said earlier, I quite understand the constraints within which you and  Mr Speaker  operate. A very real practical problem is where we are to find space for the appropriate bodies. I think again that the whole Parliament will be very pleased that a new and permanent Parliament House is to be built. We can simply take consolation in the fact that the next generation of politicians will be better equipped in a physical sense to do the job that the people of Australia send them here to do. 

 Senator Mulvihill raised a particular complaint, namely, the disallowance of some additional remuneration which was suggested by the Remuneration Tribunal for temporary chairmen of committees. 
-That is the very point I was about to make. The Government is in a difficult situation with respect to the findings of the Remuneration Tribunal. I think that there is both a difficulty and a protection in that we cannot disallow parts of a finding of the Tribunal. Although I was not a member of the Government at the time I think that the principal determination of the Government was that Ministers should not receive the additional ministerial allowances which had been suggested by the Tribunal. It had to decide either to accept those allowances or to disallow the allowances of all office bearers. The simple fact of the matter is that the Government made what it regarded as a substantial concession to the views it had put in public about the need for restraint. It took a step which penalised the members of the Government most. It penalised the Whips and it penalised various people, including office holders in the Opposition. Whilst I am sure that the Government would have preferred to penalise merely itself, it had to make that decision and nothing can be done about it until the Remuneration Tribunal reports again next year. 
The sorts of amendments which might be made to get round that difficulty might well be amendments which would give rise to very great difficulties in other directions. I would suggest that members of the Opposition should think very carefully about that before they put it forward. In any event, I have ended up making the longest speech on this Bill, which was not my intention. I thank the Senate for its consideration and commend the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978 and associated Bills which are before the Senate have been described by  Senator Wriedt  as complex. I can only agree with him in that summary. I think we can all take some consolation from the fact that the complexities apply to a minority of taxpayers whom  Senator Wriedt  has described as those people who are aiming to try to avoid paying what any citizen would regard as a fair share of income tax. I regret that the Opposition has seen the necessity to move the amendment. I would have thought that, in the light of the Government's very strenuous efforts over this past year or more to take on the problem of tax avoidance, the Opposition might well have felt that these Bills, in common with the other measures which have been taken, are a clear indication of the Government's good faith. The Government of course opposes the amendment which has been moved here, as it did in the House of Representatives, basically for the reasons which were set out by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the House of Representatives on 16 November. 
I note the extensive suggestions that were made by  Senator Hamer  with respect to the reform of the tax laws. I think that at one stage he expressed pessimism about the prospect of amending section 260 to achieve a solution. The Government has that proposition under study but it is of the view that that is not a simple solution to the problem. It is a matter which has been urged upon the Government and which, as the Treasurer has made clear, the Government has under active consideration at the moment. I am sure that all honourable senators would welcome an amendment to a single section of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which would enable us to deal with this difficult area of tax avoidance. I must say that any suggestion of a section 260 type remedy has to be looked at in the light that the more one gives a discretion to the Commissioner of Taxation the more uncertain is the position of the taxpayer. There really is a very serious problem in balancing the collection of revenue and the granting of discretions to an official, the exercise of which must in many cases be a matter of uncertainty. That can put the taxpayer in a most difficult and unfortunate position. In any event I thank honourable senators for their contributions to the debate. I confirm that the Government opposes the amendment and I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its speedy consideration of the Bill and for  Senator Gietzelt  's unusual courtesy in accepting some of the opprobrium of increasing charges, which is what I took his last remarks to mean. The second reading speech adequately sets out what the Bill achieves, and  Senator Gietzelt  has commented on that. I do not propose to respond in detail to the honourable senator, but I will refer to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  the matters raised so that they can be taken into account. The only comment that I would make to the Senate is that notwithstanding the increased fees in all sectors of aviation other than international the amounts collected are still well below full cost recovery. Bearing in mind that both the previous Government and the present Government have indicated that it is their intention to pursue a policy of cost recovery, it is a matter of some concern that notwithstanding steep increases in charges there is still such a gap. In any event I thank the Senate for its consideration of the Bill and I commend it to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that a mining authority to be issued under section 41 of the Act for mining at Ranger affords the persons on whom the authority has been conferred security of tenure similar to that enjoyed by the holders of a mining lease under laws in force in the Northern Territory and most of the States while at the same time ensuring that it is subject to appropriate controls. On 25 August 1977 the Government announced its policy to develop the uranium ore deposits in the Ranger project area on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding of October 1975 which provided for mining to be undertaken under the Atomic Energy Act by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd as joint venturers. In this regard honourable senators will recall that in June this year the Atomic Energy Act was amended to authorise the participation of the Commission in the Ranger project for the purpose of ensuring the supply of uranium. The legally binding agreements to implement the Memorandum of Understanding are now being negotiated to establish the Joint Venture and thus enable an authority' to mine to be issued under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act. The need for further amendments to the Act has been identified in the course of working out those legally binding agreements. 
Honourable senators will appreciate that laws which normally govern mining operations, for example State and Northern Territory mining laws, contain provisions which provide the holder of a lease with security of tenure and make quite clear the circumstances under which leases may, for example, be cancelled or revoked, assigned or transferred, and the conditions under which leases may be renewed. The Ranger joint venturers have pointed out that section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act, as it presently stands, does not provide them with adequate security of tenure. While the Act was designed to allow mining, detailed provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. Consequently, the Act does not address these issues but because of the decision to proceed with Ranger under the Act, amendments to deal with them have now become necessary. This does not indicate, however, that the Government has in mind using the Act for other mining projects. 
The Prime Minister said on 25 August 1977 that it should not be thought that the Commonwealth's participation in the Memorandum of Understanding would give Ranger advantage over other mining companies. The Government of course, also believes that the holders of an authority under the Atomic Energy Act should not be disadvantaged in respect of such an important matter as security of tenure in comparison with prospective competitors. In order to take appropriate account of requirements for security of tenure, and in addition, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, the recent agreement with the Northern Land Council in respect of Ranger, and the Memorandum of Understanding, the resulting provisions in this Bill are somewhat involved. 
Before turning to the detailed clauses of the Bill it is appropriate to recall some of the provisions of the 1975 Memorandum of Understanding, presented to Parliament on 29 October 1975 and incorporated in  Hansard  on 27 October 1977, which are relevant to the matters covered in this Bill. One provision of the Memorandum requires that the initial authority for mining should be issued for 2 1 years, others provide that the Ranger project will be conducted as a commercial venture and continue in force during the economic life of the uranium ore deposits in the area. Another provision of the Memorandum requires that the Commonwealth contribute 72  'A  per cent of the capital cost and be entitled to receive 50 per cent of the proceeds of sale; still another provision dealt with the circumstances under which the Joint Venturers would be able to assign their interest to other parties. The Government considers that it would be inappropriate for it to continue to contribute  72lA  per cent of the capital cost of Ranger Project on a permanent basis, that is, after the initial 2 1 year mining period, as might be thought to have been contemplated by the Memorandum. Consequently all costs of mining beyond 2 1 years at Ranger will be shared on a straight 50:50 basis, and provisions to this effect will be incorporated in the legal agreements now being negotiated between the Commonwealth and Peko/EZ. 
I turn now to the detailed provisions of the Bill. Honourable senators will note that the Bill is to commence in two parts. All except the provisions dealing with renewal- clause 6- will commence on royal assent. It is the Government's intention that clause 6- which deals only with Ranger- will be proclaimed to commence at the same time as the agreements now being negotiated with Peko/EZ are executed. Clause 4 of the Bill makes it clear that an authority issued under section 41 of the Act continues in force for the period for which it was granted unless terminated earlier in accordance with its own provisions, or unless it is revoked under new provisions dealt with in clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill. By way of example, I draw the attention of honourable senators to a provision of the proposed authority for Ranger which would lead to its termination if the Government varied a Determination as to payments to be made to the Aboriginal Benefit Trust Account. This provision is included in details of the proposed authority contained in documents tabled by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in Parliament on 7 November when he disclosed details of the agreement reached with the Northern Land Council. 
Clause 5 will introduce two new sections into the Atomic Energy Act, namely 41 A and 4 IB. The new section 41 A will provide the basis on which an authority can be revoked or its conditions varied by the Minister. I draw the attention of honourable senators to sub-section (3) of section 41A which ensures that the Minister cannot revoke an authority upon application unless conditions and restrictions relating to rehabilitation of a mining area have been observed. This is consistent with the obligations the Government has undertaken in its agreement of 3 November with the Northern Land Council in respect of the Ranger project. Sub-section (8) is relevant in this regard. If a breach of a condition or restriction in the authority occurs, sub-section (4) of section 41A will empower the Minister to prohibit or suspend mining operations, as distinct from operations ro rehabilitate the mining area, until the breach is remedied; but the Minister must first give the authority holder proper notice of the breach alleged and specify action required to be taken by the authority holder as provided in sub-section (5). 
The new section 41B expressly authorises assignment of an interest in an authority. It provides a proper framework within which assignments may be made and will enable those provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding that provide for assignment to be given effect. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 41B will enable a person holding an interest in an authority to assign, with the consent of the Minister, the whole of an interest to a person not having an existing interest in the authority. Sub-sections (3) and (4) are designed to enable interests in an authority to be assigned as between parties engaged in a joint venture, each of whom holds an existing interest in an authority. 
Clause 6 of the Bill will introduce into the Act a new section 41C. That section provides for the renewal of an authority granted in relation to the Ranger project area. The initial authority for Ranger is to be issued for 26 years and under that authority mining will cease after a mining period of 2 1 years unless the authority is earlier renewed or extended. Under sub-section ( 1 ) of the proposed new section 41C an application for renewal (only one renewal is provided for) must be lodged between 4 and 6 years before the end of the mining period. Sub-section (2) provides that the existing NLC Agreement must be extended, or a new agreement under section 44 of the Land Rights Act entered into, before the entitlement of a new authority becomes effective. Sub-section (3) requires the relevant Minister to endeavour to obtain an extension to the NLC Agreement or a new agreement with the NLC, and honourable senators will note that he will have a period of 3 to 5 years in which to do so. I would emphasise that the Bill does not empower the Minister to have resort to arbitration proceedings to secure extension or renewal of the NLC Agreement during the currency of that Agreement. The conditions and restrictions of the renewed authority are to be determined under sub-section (4) at the time of the renewal. 

 Mr President, I have explained the provisions of the Bill at some length in view of their complicated character and in view of the relevance of other legislation and agreements relating to the Ranger project. Honourable senators will recognise the care the Government has taken to ensure, by this Bill, that mining at Ranger is able to be undertaken on a commercial basis and consistent with the Government's policy as is reflected in the agreement so recently entered into with the Northern Land Council. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I wish to refer to the matters raised by  Senator Mulvihill  in the adjournment debate tonight. Firstly,  Senator Mulvihill  referred to the discussion that took place in the Estimates committee on the Airline Hostesses Association. Although  Senator Mulvihill  made material available some time today or perhaps earlier I do not yet have what I would regard as a satisfactory response. I can merely say that I will seek from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  some response to the comments made by  Senator Mulvihill. 
In respect of the second matter  Senator Mulvihill  raised, I would not want him to misinterpret any of the expressions on my face. The conservation of fauna is something which is of great importance and I respect  Senator Mulvihill  's dedication to that cause. The position is that many symbolic birds in Australia are protected. For example, the black swan is protected in my own State of Western Australia, the shrike is protected, I think, in  Mr President's  State of South Australia, and so on. I suggest to  Senator Mulvihill,  without dealing at this point with the specific case he raised, that our kangaroo and emu are in a slightly different category and one could not deal with either the bird or the animal on the basis that it is simply absolutely protected. I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  would concede that. I would like to take  Senator Mulvihill  to the north of Western Australian during a good season where he would see far more kangaroos than he could shake a stick at, let alone point a gun at. 

 Senator Mulvihill raised a serious matter about a newspaper report which concerned a kangaroo called Skippy. I understand that it is not the prominent Skippy which is known to us all as the star of the television screen but simply another kangaroo bearing that name. I can assure the honourable senator having made inquiries of the relevant Minister, that the export of kangaroos to circuses and travelling zoos is already prohibited. The export of Australian native fauna generally is prohibited except for bona fide scientific research at a recognised institution or display purposes at an approved zoo. Recipient zoos must be publicly owned and suitably equipped to house and care for the. fauna in question. 
The export of fauna for exhibition at zoological gardens is carried out on a zoo to zoo basis involving stock surplus to the requirements of the exporting zoo. In addition to these purposes, export of a native animal is permitted if it is a genuine household pet and the owner is leaving Australia. It may be that the explanation for the incident that  Senator Mulvihill  referred to is that kangaroos which have been exported to zoological gardens do breed under suitable conditions and it would appear that this animal may be one that was bred outside this country. 
Probably some inquiry could be made. However, I point out to the honourable senator that although it is not possible to control the fate of the progeny of animals exported to overseas zoos, the Government would have no hesitation in prohibiting further exports to an overseas zoo which was found to be maltreating or improperly trading in Australian animals to circuses or travelling zoos. I am sure that the Minister will do his best to determine the origin of this kangaroo. In any event there appear to be rules which, one would hope, would safeguard against any proliferation of this sort of incident. 
Qestion resolved in the affirmative.  Senate adjourned at 1 1.30 p.m. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) The Minister for Transport did so advise in a letter dated 17 August 1978. An evacuation demonstration is required before an aeroplane carrying more than 44 passengers can be placed in service. In this demonstration, the passengers and crew must be able to evacuate the aeroplane in 90 seconds using half the available emergency exits and equipment. The test is conducted in darkness and the aeroplane configuration, as far as seat and aisle layout is concerned, must be the same as that intended to be used in service. A representative load of passengers are used comprising children and adults of various ages. It must be emphasised that the demonstration is designed to (est the efficiency of the evacuation equipment and the standard of the emergency training of the aircraft crew. The whole procedure is designed to show that the aeroplane can be evacuated without outside assistance. 
An evacuation could be necessary in a variety of circumstances. The responsibility for ordering the evacuation normally rests with the captain but in the case of an accident the cabin crew are expected and trained to initiate evacuation. If the aeroplane is not on fire, the speed of the evacuation is not of great concern, but in most recorded cases evacuations have been reported to be completed in 90 seconds. 
Because we have been fortunate enough not to have had such types of accidents, we have no first hand knowledge in this area. Reports of accidents involving foreign aeroplanes do not give accurate times for evacuation to be completed. 
Not in Australia. However, TAA, Ansett and Qantas have emergency evacuation trainers which are mock-ups of part of the cabin areas of the aeroplanes they operate and it is possible to simulate a smoke filled cabin in these trainers. This is regularly done during crew emergency training. 
Aircraft cabin furnishing materials are required to meet stringent specifications which include actual burn tests on representative samples of each of the materials under specified test conditions. For transport aeroplanes the minimum standard applicable to interior wall panels, ceiling panels, draperies, baggage racks, partitions, etc., requires that they be self extinguishing after removal of the ignition flame, when tested vertically. Other items, such as seat covers, seat cushions, carpets, etc., must have a burn rate less than four inches per minute when tested horizontally. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under Air Navigation Regulation 82 the Secretary to the Department of Transport may determine the conditions of use of aerodromes operated by the Commonwealth and under Section 1 8 ofthe Air Navigation Act the Secretary has power to authorise the use of by civil aircraft of joint-user (Defence) aerodromes in accordance with such conditions as he specifies. In exercise of these powers the Secretary has issued a direction, as a condition of use of these aerodromes, that passengers shall submit themselves and their hand luggage to a search if required. 
Passengers are carried only on the terms and conditions of the contract of carriage as set out on the airlines' ticket. These terms and conditions expressly provide that the airlines are not common carriers and reserve the right to refuse to carry any passenger without assigning any reason for so doing. The airlines have determined that, in the interests of aviation security, carriage will be denied to any passenger refusing to submit to a search. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and seek a reply. 
I will seek an answer to those questions from the Minister for Post and 
Telecommunications and let  Senator Ryan  have the answer. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) My Department annually processes in excess of 32,000 movements of furniture with associated storage of goods, and enters into contracts with 125 removalists to carry out these tasks. In administering an area of operations of this magnitude, it is to be expected that queries will arise from time to time. 
A member of the industry has raised with me the points referred to in the honourable senator's question and I am having the matters examined. In addition, a departmental working party was recently established to review practices and procedures for the provision of furniture removals and storage services by my Department. The matters raised by the honourable senator are among the items listed for attention by the working party. 
Paraguay: Australians Held in Custody (Question No. 1024) 
I am seeking from the Minister for Transport an answer to the question raised yesterday by  Senator Wriedt  but as yet I have not received it. Therefore, I am unable to give the assurance that he has requested. However, I must say again, as I said yesterday, that I would not wish that failure to give an assurance to be construed as meaning no because it is simply a matter which is beyond my own ministerial competence. I am seeking information from the Minister for Transport. 
-Senator Townley has asked a series of questions about the Tasman Bridge at Hobart. Firstly, I am not aware of the matters which he raised about the design work for the repairs to the bridge. Secondly, I have not been advised about the facts which are contained in the third part of his question and I am not familiar with the significance of a foul up in the design of dead load span strength and whether some deficiency there indicates that there may be deficiencies elsewhere. The final part of his question was whether I would ask the Minister for Transport to start a total check of the design of the repairs to the bridge. I certainly will refer to the Minister for Transport the matters that have been raised by  Senator Townley  with a view to their being checked as soon as possible. I will then take up with the Minister the question of an appropriate course of action if the matters the honourable senator has raised are found to be matters of fact. 
I am advised by the Minister for Transport that, under the Government's charter policy, the charterworthiness of a group must be in accordance with the provisions of the International Air Transport Association resolution 045. That resolution, which forms part of a tariff of charges filed with and approved by the Secretary to the Department of Transport, is in accordance with Air Navigation Regulation 106A. The application form for the operation of a charter under resolution 045 by an affinity group requires, inter aha: 
All members participating in the chaner must be members at the date of signing this application and at least six months before the date of departure of the first chaner flight. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question therefore is yes. 
I appreciate the importance of the mail service to people who live in country and isolated areas of Australia. Indeed, it is not only in this area but also in the area of actually getting a postal delivery service that people in some remote areas suffer very great inconvenience. That is a matter of considerable concern to the Government as well as to those people.  Senator Kilgariff  is correct when he says that the postage rates for registered publications are to be increased on 1 January. Those increases, which are only a matter of cents in most cases, still are in the order of the percentage increases which  Senator Kilgariff  has indicated. I understand that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has received a number of representations on these matters. I think  Senator Kilgariff  would expect that to be so because of the wide interest which is held in this matter. I am advised that the Minister is to discuss the matter with Australia Post to see what, if anything, can be done about it. 
I do not know the scope of the inquiry referred to by the honourable senator, or the way in which it is intended to carry it out. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport, along with the expression of concern that is contained in it. 
In reply- I thank Opposition senators particularly for the speedy consideration of this Bill which, as  Senator Gietzelt  has pointed out, is a Bill to remedy a technical problem about the guarantee which this Parliament agreed to give earlier this year in respect of the borrowing of $80m. I note the comments which have been repeated in the Senate tonight by  Senator Puplick  and the fresh comments which have been put to me by  Senator Harradine.  I will pass those on to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and seek some response from him. I can only say that it is with great relief that I notice that  Senator Mulvihill  is not here to complain about the use of koala bears in the American advertisements and the fact that the kangaroos painted on the outside of the aeroplanes have to fly in the cold where there is no pressurisation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) In 1977-78, 7266 applications from Queenslanders for Home Savings Grants were approved. A larger number is expected to be approved in 1 978-79; some 2 1 92 applications were approved between 1 July 1978 and 5 October 1978. 
Grants approved in respect of applications lodged after 27 July 1978 will not be paid before July 1979. Grants approved in respect of applications lodged from October 1978 will be paid approximately nine months after lodgement. All applications approved will be paid strictly in order of lodgement. 
No. Persons who lodged their applications before 28 July 1978 have had to wait only while their applications were being processed. Persons who lodged their applications on or after 28 July are advised when their applications are approved how long they will have to wait for payment of their grants. Payment will be made in July 1979 for applications received on 28 or 31 July or in August or September 1978. Payment will be made approximately nine months after lodgement for applications received after September 1 978. 
Uranium Ore Dumped at Snake Creek (Question No.  881) 
Pursuant to section 60 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1975 I present the report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Transportation of the Australian Wheat Harvest'. 
in reply- I thank both Opposition speakers,  Senator Button  and  Senator Ryan,  for their support of this Bill. I have noted their remarks, particularly those made by  Senator Ryan.  It would be common ground between the Government and the Opposition that one would prefer that this sort of retrospective validation not be necessary. I think that the point she has made about the need to ensure that administrative processes are adequate for the job which has to be done is one which should be borne in mind by the Government. I also join with Opposition speakers in pursuing relative brevity in the debate and commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business Order of the Day No. 150 - Constitution Alternation (Holders of Offices of Profit) Bill 1978, Second Reading. 
The motion is designed to allow  Senator Colston  to move the second reading of the Bill and to speak to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
25 July 1977. 
No. 
(a)15(b)3. 
The interviews in which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  comments on National or Federal matters, are usually balanced by interviews with or comments from Members of the Federal Parliament 

 AM- lib. 158 appearances; ALP 125 appearances; NCP/NP 47 appearances; CLP (NT) 1 appearance; ADP 15 appearances. 

 PM- Lib. 157 appearances; ALP 114 appearances; NCP/NP 45 appearances; CLP (NT) 1 appearance; ADP 6 appearances. 

 TOT- Lib. 261 appearances; ALP 260 appearances; NCP/NP 76 appearances; DLP 3 appearances; ADP 35 appearances. 
The ABC is not normally prepared to provide information about the employment of its staff members. 
Overseas Borrowing by Local and Semi-Government Authorities (Question No. 380) 
I am aware of the honourable senator's continuing interest in this matter and his desire to see Australian ambassadors driving around in Australian made cars. I am also aware of the excellent example that the Prime Minister has set in this matter in the recent purchase of an Australian car. It is a fact that traditionally the High Commissioner in London has driven in a Rolls-Royce. It is my understanding that a replacement vehicle was ordered some time ago and that the replacement vehicle was a Rolls-Royce. I further understand that, in fact, the funds for this motor vehicle were made available this year and that a deposit has been paid. I am looking at the matter to ascertain just how far advanced the purchase has gone and whether the decision is one which might be reviewed. I think it is quite clear from the statements of the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives that he is anxious to ensure that a larger number of Australian embassies and high commissions use Australian vehicles. At the moment there are difficulties due to the fact that in some countries cars are left-hand drive, and so on. These problems are all under examination, along with the problem of ensuring that if Australian made cars are sent to countries in which there is no wider market for them at the moment we will be able to maintain and resell them- a point that  Senator Sibraa  raised in a question some time ago. The position in London is one that I have under examination at the moment. I am sorry that I cannot give a final and firm reply to the honourable senator. 
-It is true that all such matters of national symbols, emblems and so on come within my interesting and varied portfolio. It is true that at the moment there is no national stone for Australia. That is a matter which is of concern to a number of people, including the people who have made representations to  Senator MacGibbon.  I understand that this question was raised with a previous Minister for Administrative Services and that he was not subjected to the ribald comments that greeted this question. In any event, no action has been taken to this date to obtain a national stone for Australia, but a report on that subject is being prepared and I expect to be able to consider it in the next few months. I may then be in a position to give the honourable senator some more definite information. When I am considering that report I will bear in mind the point he has raised in his question. 
A number of matters have been raised by  Senator Townley,  I think over a period of months, relating to alleged deficiencies in Telecom operations, including the method of charging. Most recently, I gather, there have been suggestions that officers of Telecom may have been interfering with lines and doing things in a way which I have no doubt would be quite illegal. Those allegations, I think, have been referred by  Senator Townley  to the Government, not to me. The honourable senator is indicating to me now that he has written to the Prime Minister about the allegations, and I assume that they will be followed up in the usual and proper manner. I do not know that I would favour the procedure set out by  Senator Melzer.  It seems to me that to do so would subject individuals who might be involved to wide publicity which may, on subsequent investigation, one would hope - 
There has been no publicity with respect to any individual. I think that what the honourable senator is asking is that information relating to individuals be tabled. I would take the view that that would be a rather poor procedure to follow; that any allegations that have been made by  Senator Townley  should certainly be investigated but that no individual should be accused of wrong doing until the matter has been dealt with in the proper way which, I would have thought, if an element of fraud were involved, would lead to proceedings before a court. 
-I am sure that the attention of the Minister has been drawn to the reports that appeared in newspapers and so on which are referred to by the honourable senator in his question. I have no information about whether, specifically KLM, UTA, or JAT have expressed concern, or about Alitalia and the Italian Government, but I do have some more general information which I can let the honourable senator have. As far as the paper prepared by ASEAN countries for consideration by heads of government is concerned, I understand that a confidential note along the lines indicated by the honourable senator was received in June, which was in fact before the Government announced its policy. 
But returning to the earlier part of the question asked by the honourable senator, I am advised by the Minister for Transport that negotiating teams are at present in Europe and South East Asia explaining details of the new government policy to governments of countries which are our bilateral partners in civil aviation arrangements. The Minister advises me that in general the response which has been received has been encouraging, but a number of matters still require resolution. These matters will be discussed more fully in talks between the airlines when details of fares and arrangements for implementation of agreed policies will be discussed. Further talks will be required at government to government level to reach final agreement on new bilateral agreements. 
Naturally, countries have not accepted completely the Australian proposals in respect of some points although no formal concern has been expressed by airlines to the Australian Government, it is known that some European airlines would wish to modify arrangements. The negotiating team has taken this into account, along with views expressed by representatives of other government delegations. The negotiating team has attempted as far as possible to meet the objections raised by other countries and at the same time to maintain the central thrust of Australian policy which is aimed at providing, in concert with other countries, the development of air service arrangements that allow for the needs of the widest possible range of resident and visiting passengers to be satisfied in a safe, efficient, rational and commercially viable manner. 
I am advised by the Minister for Transport that Qantas Airways Ltd has stated that it does not pay commission, translation fees or a percentage turnover on sales to the Tabros Travel Service at the address mentioned or at any other address, either direct or through  Mr Cassa  of Concord Travel. I am further advised by the Minister that Qantas has stated that it does not pay commission to nonIATA agents. As to whether there have been complaints of illegal discounting by Tabros Travel Service, I have no information and will have to refer the matter to the Minister for a reply. Similarly, I will have to seek detailed information on whether Qantas staff might have tagged baggage for final destinations which are not those shown on the tickets. I will let the honourable senator have a reply on this matter. 
-The Leader of the Opposition has raised this matter now over a couple of days. I have sought information from the Minister for Transport and I have a reply from him. It refers to an assurance given, in fact, by the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  in May 1975 and to a subsequent statement of the present 
Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in a Press release of 28 November 1977 in which he said: 
The Hobart area has benefited from Commonwealth funding of the first Hobart bridge. I say 'first' because this Government is committed to the construction of a second bridge for Hobart. I was surprised to see that  Mr Neilson  had momentarily forgotten this the other day- surprised because last year he and I issued a joint Press release confirming the decision that a second bridge be built. Preliminary studies for the second bridge are under way and I expect to receive the report in about six months. 
The present position is that the report has not yet been received, as I understand it, but is expected fairly shortly. In any event, there is a report outstanding which is due early in the new year. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that he responded to a letter from  Senator Wriedt.  I take it that  Senator Wriedt  has no objection to my mentioning this. The honourable senator wrote to the Minister asking what research had been done on the justification for the construction of the second bridge. It may be that  Senator Wriedt  has raised doubts about the matter in the Minister's mind, I do not know. However, I am advised by the Minister that he replied that the study was currently being carried out, that the findings of the study would be referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for comment and that the report was expected late in 1978. My present information is that the report in fact is not yet available but will be available shortly.  Mr Nixon  concluded by saying: 
After the Committee has presented its report the Government will carefully consider the findings upon which the results of the economic evaluation study and the Bureau of Transport Economics' comments will have a bearing. 
I can add nothing to that answer. That is the up to date position. I have read the statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport on the matter. 
I do not think the Leader of the Opposition is entitled to assume anything. I have given him the information which has been made available by the responsible Ministers. I indicated at the close of my question that I cannot take the matter further. 
-The information which I have on this matter arises from the information given to one of the Senate Estimates committees with which at least some honourable senators are familiar. It is true that an additional charge is made for the installation of a Touchfone. I understand that the charge applies whether a person is replacing the machine or having one installed initially to a new connection. But the explanation which, from my memory, was given to the Estimates committee was that the Touchfone is, in fact, a more expensive instrument for Telecom Australia to purchase. Telecom has taken the view that that more expensive instrument should be available to those people who want to have it. I must say that that seems to me to be a most reasonable approach. If a person wishes to have a telephone service he is entitled to choose the old dial system and get the benefit of having it installed more cheaply. In other words, those people who wish to have the additional advantage of the Touchfone are required to pay for it. I would have thought that that was something which was very defensible. Any suggestion that the Touchfone ought to be available without charge presumably would involve, since Telecom is required to operate commercially, increasing charges in some other area or diverting funds from the extension of services in other areas, and bearing in mind the significant number of complaints that are received in this chamber and elsewhere about the need for extended services in remote areas and other inadequacies, I would have thought that the policy being followed by Telecom was probably the sensible one in all the circumstances. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report and financial statements of Qantas Airways Limited for the year ended 3 1 March 1978. May I just add that I, like the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  have noted the comments made by the Opposition Whip about the late tabling of these reports and would share the views that he has expressed on the matter. Could I also draw the Senate's attention to the fact that we are rising approximately a fortnight earlier than usual and that this may have contributed to the rush of reports. I do not say that by way of excuse or to justify the tabling of reports on the last day of the session, but I think it is a factor that has probably exacerbated the situation. 
I present a statement of the Government's attitude to the following three reports of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety: Passenger Vehicle Safety, Heavy Vehicle Safety and Motor Cycle and Bicycle Safety, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  This item is not on the list but I think that honourable senators might wish to have it before them. It is presented pursuant to the Government's announcement that it wishes to make a formal response to parliamentary committee reports and it is, therefore, a considerable advance on previous practice. I trust that the Senate will not mind this also being put before it for its further consideration. 
I think members of the Opposition and, indeed, Government senators have already received an assurance that the Government takes the matter raised by  Senator Georges  very seriously. It will be examined carefully. I hope that most of the parliamentary committee reports in respect of which I tabled a statement indicating the Government's action and attitude will be greeted by the Parliament not with debate but with silent satisfaction. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I had intended to commence my reply by wishing  Senator Button  a happy Christmas, but in the light of his comments on the Bill I do not propose to do that now. I thank the Opposition for it support of the Bill. To some extent the concern expressed by  Senator Button  is reflected in the second reading speech and in particular in the passage to which  Senator Button  referred. It is unusual in the present Budget climate to find an item of government expenditure which is rising by 70 per cent. That fact alone- the increase in expenditure from $14m to $21m in one yearunderlines the serious approach the Government has to this problem and the fact that it is determined to grapple with it. I do not think there is anything else that needs to be said on the Bill. I commend it to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia provides the whole of the line in automatic exchange areas and in manual exchange areas programmed for conversion to automatic within two years. However, subscribers located beyond 16 km radially from the exchange are required to contribute at the rate of $160 per Vi km for the section of line beyond the 16 km point. Alternatively they may elect to make no capital contribution but pay an annual rental of $500. 
In other manual exchange areas the free line entitlement has been fixed at 8 km with applicants being required to construct and maintain the remainder of the lines to their premises at their own expense. I am expecting to receive a report on this issue from the Australian Telecom.munications Commission shortly and at that time I expect to be able to give the matter of free line plant for subscribers to manual exchanges further consideration. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) On 12 September 1978 the Government decided that arrangements should be concluded with the Australian Broadcasting Commission to start an interim service which would present ethnic television programs on Saturday and Sunday mornings. This service is planned to start in March-April 1979. 
UHF channels are also to be allocated for permanent ethnic television services, with funds being made available in 1 978-79 for the purchase of UHF television transmitters. 
The Government also decided on 12 September 1978 that: 
the Special Broadcasting Service, in conjunction with the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council, should co-ordinate the preparation of a public discussion paper which will cover matters relating to the establishment of ethnic television services; and 
b ) that the Ministers for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Post and Telecommunications should determine the arrangements for implementing a program of extensive consultation on the next stage of development of multicultural, multilingual television services. This consultation will be held with all relevant authorities, ethnic communities and other interested parties. 
See above. 
Television and Radio Facilities in Remote Areas (Question No. 513) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The responsibility for upgrading television and radio services rests, under present legislation, with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, and not with Telecom Australia. The Government decided in November 1977 to establish 36 repeater stations and 20 new translator stations over the three years commencing 1978-79, as part of an extensive 'remote areas' program to provide television services to communities in 76 isolated localities. 
Subsequently there has been extensive investigations into the possibility that the repeater station locations and some areas schedule for translator stations could be serviced by means of the Intelsat TV international satelite and this matter is presently under consideration by the Government. The remote areas' program is in addition to the usual three year planning and construction program for the national broadcasting and television services, which further extends these services into regional areas. 
Bathurst Island is one of the areas being considered for inclusion in the 'remote areas ' television program. 
Alice Springs is currently served by a national repeater station operation (ABAD-7) and Katherine is served by Station ABK-7, which is on relay from the national station at Darwin. 
It is anticipated that the repeater station operation at Alice Springs will be linked with a Telecom microwave system in the 1979-80 financial year. This will provide a 'real time' television service to Alice Springs, in place of the present service which involves a replay of video tapes which are freighted to the station. There are no current plans to extend the present service at Katherine. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) A Public Inquiry Branch comprising 1 9 positions and based in Sydney was approved by the Public Service Board in December 1977 specifically to deal with the scheduled hearings. Additional positions in State Offices were not sought by the Tribunal for the purpose. The staffing of the Public Inquiry Branch is proceeding and as at 16 June 1 978, ten positions were occupied either on a permanent or a temporary basis. 
A staff ceiling of 1 10 was initially approved for the Tribunal for 1977-78, but was increased to 120 as from 1 January 1978 to cater for the Public Inquiry Branch. A staff ceiling of 100 has been determined for 1 978-79 subject to review in the light of decisions taken by the Government on recommendations contained in a report on the question of self-regulation of the broadcasting media which matter was the subject of a public inquiry conducted by the Tribunal in 1977. The Tribunal sought a staff ceiling of 130 for 1978-79, but pending decisions on the Self-regulation Report, this request was not approved. 
3 ) This matter is under consideration by the Government. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission Programs in Tasmania: Appearances of Federal Politicians (Question No. 581) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (7) The ABC advises that the research work involved to obtain the information requested by the honourable senator would be very difficult and time consuming. 
The ABC does not maintain running records of the information sought and to retrieve such information, it would mean that a number of people would have to be involved to spend a considerable amount of time reviewing hours of film, video and sound tapes and preparing records. Equipment and personnel urgently required for program production would have to be assigned to this research. 
I am normally anxious to respond as fully as possible to parliamentary questions, but unfortunately this question would amount to a very onerous and time consuming assignment for the ABC. 
This Day Tonight in Tasmania: Appearances of Federal Politicians (Question No. 582) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (4) The ABC advises that the research work involved to obtain the information requested by the honourable senator would be very difficult and time consuming. 
The ABC does not maintain running records of the information sought and to retrieve such information, it would mean that a number of people would have to be involved to spend a considerable amount of time reviewing hours of film, video and sound tapes and preparing records. Equipment and personnel urgently required for program production would have to be assigned to this research. 
I am normally anxious to respond as fully as possible to parliamentary questions, but unfortunately this question would amount to a very onerous and time consuming assignment for the ABC. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No special survey is conducted by the Department of Industry and Commerce to establish the optimum level of capacity utilisation in manufacturing industry. However, the Department does undertake a quarterly Survey of Manufacturing Activity, to which the honourable senator has referred. As part of this survey, information on the current level of firms' capacity utilisation is sought. The base for this indicator is the total installed capacity of the firms surveyed. This is determined anew each quarter and is defined as 'the maximum potential output by machinery and equipment in place and capable of operating at short notice on the basis of the establishment's normal shift operations'. 
Apprentices in Queensland (Question No. 893) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1), (2) and (3) Regular Public Transport (RPT) services are operated by the licensed airlines as well as by other organisations operating scheduled services under the provisions of Air Navigation Regulation 203. Therefore the types of aircraft operating on RPT services in Australia range from a single engine light aircraft to the Boeing 747. 
Aerodromes that these aircraft operate from include Government and licensed aerodromes, and Authorised Landing Areas (ALA). There are currently some 172 licensed aerodromes throughout Australia which are neither owned by the Department of Transport nor local authorities. Eighty-nine of these have scheduled air services by RPT aircraft. ALA's are operated by a variety of organisations and private individuals. Because of the wide diversity of ownership, no complete records are maintained of the scope and cost of past development works at these licensed aerodromes and ALA's. 
At most aerodromes in Australia the introduction of RPT aircraft has not necessitated any upgrading works to be undertaken either by the Commonwealth or private interests. In many cases an increased standard of facilities has been provided to permit a larger category of RPT aircraft to operate on particular networks. Such works could be carried out on ALA's without the necessity of advising my Department. 
If the honourable  Senator has  some particular location in mind perhaps relevant information could be obtained for him. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
During the year ended 30 September 1978 the only airport to handle more than 300,000 domestic revenue passengers, apart from those airports specifically excluded by the Question, was Launceston with a provisional passenger traffic figure of 353,000. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, although the airline prefers that luggage be checked in at its Cooktown office because of the limited facilities at the airport 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
I understand that Commonwealth Government employees permanently stationed in the Northern Territory and employed under either the Public Service Act or the Northern Territory Public Service Act are granted assisted return air travel. 
(a) I am advised that conditions of service for the Commission's employees are governed by Railway Service Rules which do not provide for free air travel. However, employees on recreation leave are granted free rail travel and other concessions, such as free freighting of southbound private motor vehicles. 
I consider that this matter properly falls within the normal area of responsibility of the Commission. 
Indonesia: Consul in Darwin (Question No. 1027) 
For the information of honourable senators  I  present the annual report of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the adjournment. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Twenty-four post offices have been opened in New South Wales since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Four hundred and sixty-two post offices have been closed permanently in New South Wales since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Twelve post offices in New South Wales have been renamed since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in South Australia  (Question No. 764) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Sixteen post offices have been opened in the Australian Capital Territory since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Four post offices have been closed permanently in the Australian Capital Territory since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
No post offices in the Australian Capital Territory have been renamed since 1 January 1970. 
Post Offices in New South Wales  (Question No. 763) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom has plans to remove the aerial pole route from the road bridge crossing the River Murray at Murray Bridge, but it is not expected that the work will be undertaken before March 1979. 
Telecom has advised me that it has considered the priority of this project and, on present plans, it would expect that the work will not be completed before the 1980-81 financial year. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Thirty-three post offices have been opened in Queensland since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Three hundred and forty-six post offices have been closed permanently in Queensland since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Eleven post offices in Queensland have been renamed since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in Western Australia  (Question No. 761) 

 - Senator Bishop has raised a matter which is of great interest to people not only in South Australia but also in Western Australia, Queensland and other places which are not served by the direct point-to-point fares which have already been negotiated for international travel. On 24 January the Minister for Transport made a statement pointing out that he was committed to the principle of lower add-on fares than are currently available in Australia for people who want to connect with those flights. The Government remains committed to that principle and at the moment negotiations with the airlines are pressing on as a matter of urgency. It is hoped that there will be some finalisation of the arrangements in the near future. I cannot give the honourable senator a precise date, which from his question I think he wanted, but I can assure him that around Australia the interest that he has expressed is felt in regard to the negotiation of these fares. 
The honourable senator has asked a detailed question about Hobart Airport which follows a series of questions that he asked in the last session about related matters. I will refer the question, as I have done with a number of other questions that he has asked, to the Minister for Transport and seek a detailed reply. 
My answer to  Senator Thomas's  question must be in very similar terms to the answer I just gave to  Senator Bishop.  He has raised a matter which is of considerable importance to his constituents because of the very obvious overcrowding during large parts of the day at Perth Airport. As he said, there is a committee at the moment working on this matter. It is a Commonwealth-State committee and it is at the moment considering the final draft of its report. The best I can say to  Senator Thomas  is that it is expected to report very soon to the Government. This is a situation where the problem is not so much the runways as the facilities for passengers and baggage handling. These areas are not really adequate to meet the current needs. It is likely, therefore, that some early action will be taken on the report, even if for the time being that is merely a re-arrangement of some of the facilities. 
As far as I am aware, there has been no recent change in the purchasing policy which was announced by the Government in 1976, but there certainly was some public announcement about a change in the emphasis of that policy at some time between 1976 and 1978. I cannot tell the honourable senator precisely when that was, but it was some time ago. That is a matter about which I can find out and let the honourable senator have additional information. I have no familiarity with the circumstances that he has raised in respect of the Senate diary, and the fact that it was printed in Hong Kong. I do not know who was responsible for placing that order, but again I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator know. I would suggest that it is very likely, however, that the contract was let there for reasons of price. 
-I saw a report in Northern Territory newspapers outlining the facts which have been put before the Senate in that question. I can advise the Senate that there is no question that unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory is Crown land held in right of the Northern Territory; in other words, that it is no longer Commonwealth Crown land. The exception to that is in respect of land in the Alligator Rivers region which is still Crown land held in right of the Commonwealth. However, provisions of the Aboriginal land rights Acts, particularly section 3 sub-section 6, apply to Crown land which is held in the right of the Northern Territory, so claims can be made by Aboriginal traditional owners in respect of unalienated Crown land held in the right of the Northern Territory. The Commonwealth Government supports the view whch has been put forward by the Northern Territory Government that the latter Government has a responsibility to ensure that matters of public interest are represented before the Aboriginal land commissioner. 
With respect to the claim books which were referred to in  Senator Kilgariff's  question as not having been lodged, in effect these are statements of evidence which are produced by land councils in support of claims which are made. These books are not required to be lodged at the time of application but, in fact, the Aboriginal land commissioner issued practice directions last year which make it clear that where practicable they should be lodged before the hearing of an application so that they are available to those who are appearing at the application. The hearing dates of the various claims which have been lodged have yet to be determined as the land councils are continuing to compile the necessary evidence in relation to these claims. That is a matter which, on my information, is being actively pursued by the land councils. 
I am aware that Australia's international civil aviation policy has been discussed individually with each of the five members of the Association of South East Asian Nations and also at a joint meeting held in Canberra earlier this year. The countries have expressed concern on some aspects of the policy and Australia has indicated a desire for early negotiations with them, either individually or collectively as they wish, in the hope that we can develop mutually satisfactory solutions. 
The economic Ministers of ASEAN countries are understood to be planning a meeting in Kuala Lumpur on 22 February to consider further their joint position. It is the Government's hope that their talks will clear the way for negotiations with Australia to proceed. It is true that the Foreign Minister of Singapore has voiced criticisms of the aviation policy but it is the Government's view that any disagreements or misunderstandings over the effects of our aviation policy would be best resolved at the negotiating table. 
The estimate that Singapore could lose a quarter of a million tourists a year as a result of the policy is understood by the Government to rest on assumptions that in its view are not valid. Proposals put to Singapore and the other ASEAN countries include provision for retention of the facilities for Australian travellers to make stop-overs in ASEAN capitals or in ASEAN countries. In addition, reductions in fares for travel to ASEAN countries themselves on a point to point basis should result in substantial growth of Australian tourism to the ASEAN region. The Government has been at pains to explain its new international aviation policy to the ASEAN countries and it is hopeful that with some goodwill on both sides the matters concerning those countries will be resolved speedily. 
I can very confidently respond to the last part of the question with a no. I do not remember the detail of the matter that the senator has raised. In particular, I have no recollection of having seen the reply to  Mr Kerin  that the senator has raised with me. I would have to check that. There is, of course, a ministerial directive which covers the general program of the Department. It is a public document and is contained in the annual report. Whether there are any guidelines of the sort referred to in the answer to the questions is a matter of which I have no knowledge. I will seek further information and let the senator have a reply. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Aboriginal Land Fund Act 1 974 I present the annual report of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Aboriginal Loans Commission Act 1976 I present the report of the Aboriginal Loans Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the adjournment. 
For the information of honourable senators  I  present the annual report of the Australian Manufacturing Council for the year ended 30 June 1 978. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the adjournment. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report on the activities of the Department of Industry and Commerce for the year ended 30 June 1978. The report also includes some subsequent developments. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the adjournment. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport including those matters on which the Minister is required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920 for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
As required by section 7 of the Representation Act I present a copy of the Certificate of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer setting forth the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and of the several States in accordance with the latest statistics of the Commonwealth. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a copy of the notification made by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer under section 1 1 of the Representation Act setting forth the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. As determined there has been no change in the representation entitlement of any State except Western Australia. It has been determined that Western Australia, which is represented by ten members of the House of Representatives, is now entitled to a representation of eleven members. Section 25 (2) (a) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides therfore that a redistribution in Western Australia is mandatory. 
Unfortunately I did not hear all of  Senator McLaren's  comments. No doubt I will have an opportunity to read them in  Hansard  tomorrow. But I must record my own pleasure at the fact that he received his best Christmas present in the form of an answer by  Senator Durack  to a question. I am sure that  Senator Durack  would be similarly pleased that he has brought so much pleasure to the honourable senator and it has lasted for two full months since Christmas. In any event, I have had an opportunity to look at the paragraph in the address to the nation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which has been the main focus of those comments I have heard. I should have thought that the Prime Minister's comments were unexceptionable. He said: 
Actions that we have already taken are enabling Australian manufacturing industry to get back into export markets. 
That statement, of course, has been well and truly borne out by the report issued the other day by the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. The Prime Minister went on, and these are the areas that were most criticised by the honourable senator: 
How many of you know that Australian companies are exporting furniture to Sweden, and colour television sets are being exported into the toughest market in the world- to Hong Kong- against Japanese competition? Australianbuilt, Australian-designed fishing vessels are being exported to a number of countries in South East Asia. At least one major motor manufacturer is re-building its export organisation. 
I did not hear the honourable senator opposite deny that those exports are taking place. He simply said that there are fewer exports than there have been in the past. In any event, I am not cast down into two months of distress by the news that the honourable senator has delivered to the Senate tonight in the way that he has been given two months of obvious positive pleasure. I will direct closer attention to his remarks when they are available tomorrow in  Hansard,  to see whether there is any other matter to which I should respond. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the Special Broadcasting Service, the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the 
Australian Postal Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) so report. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is required under section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to furnish to the Minister an audited Report, with financial statement audited by the Auditor-General, as soon as practicable after 30 June each year. 
In addition the Commission will include in the report particulars of: 
a) each transmission arranged at the written direction of the Minister in pursuance of section 64; 
each case in which the Minister has exercised the powers conferred on him by the last preceding section; and 
any case in which the Minister has, otherwise than in pursuance of the provisions of this Act, issued directions concerning the broadcasting and televising by the Commission of any matter or prohibited the broadcasting or televising by the Commission of any matter. 
The Australian Broadcating Tribunal is required under section 28 (1) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to furnish to the Minister an audited report, with financial statements audited by the Auditor-General, as soon as practicable after 30 June each year. 
The Special Broadcasting Service is required under section 79ZH of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (1977) to furnish to the Minister an audited report, with financial statements audited by the Auditor-General, as soon as practicable after 30 June each year. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission is required, under Section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, to prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of its operations together with a Balance Sheet and other financial statements for that financial year. The Act directs that before furnishing financial statements to the Minister, the Commission shall submit them to the Auditor-General who shall report to the Minister on whether they are in order. The Act also directs that the Minister shall lay these documents before Parliament within fifteen sitting days after receipt by the Minister. 
Australian Postal Commission is required, under Section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, to prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of its operations together with a Balance Sheet and other financial statements for that financial year. The Act directs that before furnishing financial statements to the Minister, the Commission shall submit them to the AuditorGeneral who shall report to the Minister on whether they are in order. The Act also directs that the Minister shall lay these documents before Parliament within fifteen sitting days after receipt by the Minister. 
The Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) is required, under Section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunication Act 1946, as soon as practicable after each 3 1 March, to prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of its operations together with financial statements for the year ended 31 March. The Act directs that before furnishing financial statements to the Minister, the Commission shall submit them to the Auditor-General who shall report to the Minister on whether they are in order. The Act also directs that the Minister shall lay these documents before Parliament within fifteen sitting days after receipt by the Minister. 
The 1977-78 annual reports and audited financial statements were presented to the Minister on the following dates: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commisison: 23 October 1978 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal (1976-77 Annual Report): 28 April 1978 
The Special Broadcasting Service began operations on I January 1978. Audited accounts Ibr 1977-78 have not yet been presented to the Minister for tabling. 
Australian Telecommunications Commission: 20 October 1978 
Australian Postal Commission: 10 November 1978 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia): 15 November 1978. 
The Minister tabled the 1977-78 annual reports and audited financial statements in Parliament on the following dates: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission: 24 October 1978 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal (1976-77 Annual Report): 2 May 1978 
The Special Broadcasting Service began operations on 1 January 1978. Audited accounts for 1977-78 have not yet been presented to the Minister for tabling. 
Australian Telecommunications Commission: 24 October 1978 
Australian Postal Commission: 14 November 1978 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia): 21 November 1978. 
5 ) The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal did not furnish its first annual report within four months of 30 June 1977 mainly due to staff shortages pending the realisation of the Tribunal's starling structure, resulting from the Tribunal's establishment on 1 January 1977. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Thirty-four post offices have been opened in Western Australia since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
One hundred and four post offices have been closed permanently in Western Australia since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Seven post offices in Western Australia have been renamed since 1 January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No. 762) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Four post offices have been opened in South Australia since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
One hundred and seventy-nine post offices have been closed permanently in South Australia since 1 January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Six post offices in South Australia have been renamed since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in Victoria  (Question No. 765) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Seventeen post offices have been opened in Victoria since I January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Five hundred and twenty-three post offices have been closed permanently in Victoria since 1 January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Five post offices in Victoria have been renamed since I January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in Tasmania  (Question No. 766) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Two post offices have been opened in Tasmania since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
One hundred and thirty-one Post offices have been closed permanently in Tasmania since 1 January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Three post offices in Tasmania have been renamed since 1 January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Post Offices in the Northern Territory  (Question No. 767) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Seven post offices have been opened in the Northen Territory since I January 1 970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Six post offices have been closed permanently in the Northern Territory since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
Two post offices in the Northern Territory have been renamed since 1 January 1970. Details have been provided separately to  Senator Colston. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Telecom Australia has detailed manpower planning forecasts indicating the effects of its Manual Exchange Closure Programme and Manual Assistance Centre Closure for the years 1 978-79 and 1 979-80 only. On present plans the numbers of staff involved in each State are indicated in Table 1. 
It should be noted that these figures indicate the total number of staff involved as a result of Manual Exchange of Manual Assistance Centre closures and do not show actual retrenchments. Retrenchments can only be assessed at the time Exchanges or Assistance Centres are actually closed, as some staff accept redeployment or transfer. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No. 
Section 105b (2)  of  the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 states that ' ... the Tribunal shall not grant or renew a licence for a television translator station if, in the opinion of the Tribunal, satisfactory reception of television programs from a commercial television station is being obtained in the area in which the signals from that television translator station are designed to be satisfactorily received '. 
Should the Tribunal be of the opinion that satisfactory reception of the Bunbury station is not being received in the Bunbury area, section 105b (2b) requires the tribunal to have regard to the principle that, subject to ensuring that the needs of the people in the area concerned are adequately served (see also s. 105b (2a)), it is desirable that a television translator licence for the purpose of the re-transmission of programs for reception in an area that is not within a metropolitan television area should be granted or renewed for the purpose of the re-transmission of the programs of a station that is not a metropolitan station in preference to a television translator station licence for the purpose of the retransmission of the programs of a metropolitan television station. 
No. The coaxial cable system from Perth to Bunbury comprises four tubes which are all currently occupied and carry national television signals plus telephony. This system has no existing capability to carry additional television signals from Perth to Bunbury. 
Post Office at the Monument, Queensland: Christmas 1976 Stamps  (Question No. 855) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 November 1976. 
The 1976 Christmas stamps were issued onI November 1976. Christmas stamps were postmarked on that date with the normal post office date stamp used at The Monument. 
(a) Approximately 200. (b), (c) and (d) Not recorded. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Each year Telecom Australia issues to subscribers approximately 10 million telephone accounts and, of these, less than 1 per cent are queried in respect of the charge made for metered calls. 
Statistics in respect of such queries are maintained on a quarterly basis for capital city areas only and these are tabulated below. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In 1976 the Government received detailed advice on the establishment of a permanent ethnic broadcasting service from the Ministers for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Post and Telecommunications. This was based upon the work of a committee of officials called the Consultative Committee on Ethnic Broadcasting, appointed by the two Ministers, which consulted ethnic communities and other interested parties over a period of several months. 
As one result, the Government appointed the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council, composed of representatives of ethnic communities, to advise it upon all policy matters concerning ethnic radio and television. The Government's recent decision to involve the SBS in the provision of an ethnic television service was based upon advice from NEBAC, the Report of the Review of Post Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants (Galbally Report), and the report of an Interdepartmental Committee of Officials from the Departments of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Postal and Telecommunications, and Finance. 
Yes. The Galbally Report commended the provision of ethnic broadcasting services through public broadcasting stations as a cost-effective alternative to providing services through full SBS stations. The Government provided limited funds to the SBS for subsidising ethnic broadcasting through public stations in areas where there was no SBS service during the last financial year. This financial year an amount of $75,000 has been provided. 
Support of ethnic public broadcasters by the Special Broadcasting Service is contingent of their acceptance of the Government's 'code of Principles' which are contained in the Regulations under the Act. 
No. My colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has informed me that persons appointed to the State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Committees (SEBAC) are appointed as individuals, not as representatives of particular communities. This does not preclude nominations being made to the Minister by the community. Indeed, my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has informed me that, before making the initial appointments, he invited nominations from the community. 
The Terms of Reference of both the National EthnicBroadcasting Advisory Council and the State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Committees, NSW and Vic, call for them to advise the Government, as well as the Special Broadcasting Service, on the policy and programming needs of the ethnic communities. In addition, the SBS undertakes regular surveys on its listeners in the various languages with the purpose of obtaining information on the needs and preferences of its listeners. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No. The conversion to colour of television facilities in Darwin involved the replacement of existing monochrome equipment with colour equipment. An expansion of local content in the Northern Territory is dependent on the provision of additional funds and staff. Plans to improve the ABC news service and local public affairs programs in the Northern Territory, with existing staff, are being developed. 
The installation of colour equipment in the Northern Territory will mean that southern outlets will almost certainly feature more news and program material than they did before colourisation. It will not mean the ABC's Darwin Office will necessarily have more material to make available, merely that, as the material supplied will be in colour, it will be more acceptable for inclusion in news bulletins and other ABC programs where the regular service is in colour. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Toowong Post Office sells unserviced first day covers before the issue dates of stamps and serviced first day covers on and after issue dates. 
2 ) Toowong Post Office is a ' first day cover' office offering first day of issue facilities, but it is not a philatelic sales centre with a full range of Australia Post's philatelic services available. 
In the production of the Aviators series, the printer experienced considerable problems which resulted in the stamps and minisheets being distributed to post offices later than is usual in relation to the date of release. Special efforts were made to have the stamps and minisheets available by the issue date of 1 9 April 1978 and, in Queensland, Australia Post staff worked overtime on 1 7 and 1 8 April to hand-count the stamps and minisheets allocated to that State. Post Office staff members at Toowong are unable to recall whether the Aviators minisheet was available at that office at 9.00 a.m. on 19 April. As far as can be determined, however, the minisheet was available at the office by later in the day on 1 9 April 1978. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Study Group on Structural Adjustment did engage the Australian Council of Social Services (ACOSS) to undertake a pilot study of persons affected by structural change: 
ACOSS agreed to undertake the study on 23 May 1978; 
The aim of the pilot study was to examine aspects of structural adjustment from the perspective of the unemployed by examining the experiences of persons who had been retrenched. The survey was not intended to be representative of the clothing industry; 
28 July 1978; 
$10,000; 
Yes; (f), (g), (h)and (i) The study was conducted by staff of ACOSS assisted by Australian National Opinion Polls; 
) The report has not yet been printed but is available in roneoed form on request and a few copies have been distributed in this way. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The following work in relation to the Thursday Island broadcasting station remains to be carried out: 
Installation of transportable equipment shelter, with transmitters pre-installed, which will be shipped to site in January. 
Construction of combining system, which is about to commence, and modifications to radiator scheduled for January. 
Completion of works mentioned in (1) should allow radio broadcasts to commence by the end of April 1979. 
Television Reception in North-West Tasmania (Question No. 1007) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The East Devonport and Spreyton areas of Northern Tasmania suffer from poor national and commercial television reception due to the fairly close-in rolling hills surrounding the area which obstruct transmissions. 
Provision for improved national television reception in these areas has been included in a three-year Capital Works Program for the extension of the national broadcasting and television service recently approved in principle by the Government. 
My Department is currently preparing a planning proposal for my consideration on the establishment of a commercial television translator in the area. On approval of that proposal, I will invite applications for the grant of a licence for a translator. These applications would be received by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal who would arrange the necessary public inquiry in the event of more than one application being received, or any objection made, in relation to the proposal. The foregoing procedure is in accordance with the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
The honourable senator will appreciate that it is not within my power to grant approval for a translator to bc erected and used by TNT9. The responsibility for the grant of licences for the commercial service rests with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, as does the determination of the date on which the holder of a licence shall commence the service in pursuance of the licence. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) I have been informed that the decision by the Australian Electoral Officer for Queensland to direct the Divisional Returning Officer for Fisher not to institute proceedings against  Dr Fowles  was made by the Australian Electoral Officer in the exercise of an independent statutory discretion, a discretion vested in him under Regulation 80 of the Electoral and Referendum Regulation, lt is not the practice to give detailed reasons relating to the exercise of that discretion.  Dr Fowles'  statement is not an accurate representation of the Government's attitude. Cases of electors failing to vote will continue to be judged on their merits. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) 88 tenders were received for the 10 houses available for sale. 
) Tenders ranged from $28,000 to $49, 1 50. 
Applicants were notified that the houses, then in the course of construction, would be available at prices between $39,000 and $49,205. 
Aborigines: Employment at Mining Centres (Question No. 1025) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942 provides for encouragement of Australian artists in the production and presentation of programs and for the broadcasting ofa minimum percentage of works by Australian composers. 
In referring the Report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal into Self-regulation back to the Tribunal, the Government noted that some specific requirements and standards are necessary in areas such as Australian content, and asked the Tribunal to take into account the desirability of continuing to foster programs which are Australian in character and provide continuity of work opportunity for Australian creative talent. 
The Tribunal, rather than the Government, is the body which makes detailed decisions on program standards and related matters. 
Refer to (1) above. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the final report of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. 
I shall convey the contents of that question and the requests it contains to the Minister for Administrative Services and seek replies for the honourable senator. 
As with the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I will refer this question to the Minister for Administrative Services for reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) To the passengers through the airlines. In this regard notices are displayed in terminal buildings informing passengers that they and their carry-on baggage may be subject to search. 
The following is the text of the direction made by the Secretary to the Depanment of Transport in relation to Adelaide, Brisbane, Cairns, Hoban, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney aerodromes. A separate direction, containing the same text, relates to joint-user aerodromes, namely Canberra, Townsville and Darwin: 
Every person proposing to board an aircraft departing from any of these aerodromes shall submit himself and his carry-on baggage to be searched by an employee of the operator of the aircraft on which he proposes to travel, a person authorised for that purpose by that operator, an officer of the Depanment of Transport, or a member of the Commonwealth Police or a police force of a State, in any case in which an employee of the operator or an officer of the Depanment of Transport requires in the interests of the safety of air navigation that all or any of the passengers proposing to travel on a particular aircraft departing from the aerodrome or their carry-on baggage should be searched, provided that a female shall not be searched except by a female.' 
21 January 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill is part of the Government's program for the future well-being of the inhabitants of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The Bill will allow the Cocos (Keeling) Islands to establish its own postal and philatelic services similar to those conducted by Norfolk Island and Christmas Island. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands will obtain revenue from these operations, primarily from philatelic sales, and the revenue so derived will be retained on the islands for the welfare of the inhabitants. It is proposed that this Act should take effect on a date to be fixed by proclamation which will be the date when the ordinance establishing the postal service takes effect. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Button)  adjourned. 
I have some information from the Minister for Transport on the matters which have been raised by  Senator Peter  Baume. 
I am informed that on 24 November last year an International Air Transport Association inspector did find that a number of passengers were ticketed to Damascus with connections to a point beyond Damascus. The Senate is probably aware that Qantas Airways Ltd is the only airline that provides scheduled services from Australia over Damascus. It is therefore possible that Qantas staff in Australia could have been involved in the tagging of baggage for these passengers at the start of their journeys. This in itself does not necessarily indicate that anything improper was done or that passengers were not intending to travel beyond Damascus. It was subsequently found that the connecting flight beyond Damascus was not operating as ticketed. I am advised by the Department of Transport that it is awaiting further information on this aspect. At this stage it is not possible to know where the fault lies. The Department is investigating the whole circumstances of the matter with a view to determining what would be an appropriate course of action. Pending the outcome of this investigation, I am not in a position to give any further details. 
One of the two matters raised by  Senator Thomas  was raised in the Senate in a question asked yesterday by  Senator Bishop.  I said at that time that the question reflected interest in a number of States including Western Australia and South Australia. The first part of the question asked by  Senator Thomas  relates to the question of local air fares. At the moment domestic air fares between Perth and the eastern States are calculated according to the same formula as all major domestic network fares. That formula consists of a flagfall plus a cents per kilometre component. So there is direct relationship between the distance that is travelled and the amount of fare. 
The domestic review of air transport policy last year recommended the introduction into the formula of two components for distance to reflect the lower costs associated with long distance services. The review recognised that these changes would have to be phased in over time and it is this change, I think, that is being sought by  Senator Thomas  on behalf of Western Australians. These matters are currently being discussed with the domestic airlines and it is hoped that there will be some progress. I should add that it is only comparatively recently that there has been a number of changes relating to domestic travel between Perth and the eastern States and there is now the full range of concession fares such as group travel, ofT peak, APEX- the advance purchase excursion- and stand-by. But we have yet to achieve the further change that  Senator Thomas  is seeking. 
As far as international air fares from Perth are concerned, it would be known to all honourable senators that the new air fares are negotiated on a point-to-point basis so that for international flights leaving Perth the fares have been reduced and there are special fares available on flights from, say, Perth to London. As far as international routes are concerned, the problem arises where the point-to-point flights end in, say, Sydney or Melbourne, as of course is likely to be the case in respect of the great bulk of routes because of the concentration of population in the southeast corner of Australia. The Government, as I made clear, understands the problem and is in fact actively consulting both Qantas Airways Ltd and the domestic airlines to ascertain whether it is possible to introduce cheap domestic add-on fares for people travelling internationally. The Government is, in fact, committed to the principle of cheap add-ons and is pushing these discussions as a matter of urgency. 
-The Minister for Transport has provided me with some information on the matters raised by  Senator Missen  in his question. I am aware, of course, that there have been reports of so-called near air collisions and allegations of deterioration in Australia's air safety record. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that all reports of incidents are fully and carefully investigated by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of his Department and that, if it is found necessary, appropriate action is taken by the Department of Transport. Some of the more recent reported incidents are still under investigation. The Department is continually monitoring Australia 's air safety position. There has been publicity recently on our radar facilities. I am advised that the present radar system is not out of date in any way. The equipment is continually updated and replaced as it nears the end of its service life, and it compares favourably with systems in use overseas. The present system provides operational capabilities commensurate with Australia's traffic densities, and the Department has an ongoing plan to provide additional capabilities to cope with traffic growth and complexity. For example, systems will be provided at Sydney, Adelaide and Perth airports in 1980 to display aircraft altitude and identity, and these will be followed shortly after by upgraded systems at Melbourne, Brisbane and Canberra. 
Unions involved in the aviation industry have recently stated that immediate attention should be given to the installation of the T-VASIS visual approach guidance system at Melbourne runway 27, Sydney runway 07, Albury, Gladstone, Hamilton and Grafton. The Department is well aware of the value of the T-VASIS system. It was designed in Australia and adopted internationally. There is an ongoing program in which 85 of these systems are already in operation, and a further 46 are presently planned. Early installation already had been planned at each of the airports mentioned by the unions. 
Considerable publicity has also been given to the introduction in November 1978 of revised traffic information procedures in uncontrolled air space. When announcing the new procedures, the Department stated that experience might show modifications to be desirable. Minor variations were made as recently as 14 February, following a meeting between the Department and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and agreement by other sections of the industry. The traffic information service provided in uncontrolled air space in Australia is of a quality and comprehensiveness not attempted in any other country with busy air space. 
I make these points to emphasise that the Department of Transport and the Minister are concerned to ensure that Australia's high standard of air safety is maintained at the highest level and to illustrate that continuing discussions with the aviation industry are taking place on these matters. 
An important element of the question asked earlier by  Senator Missen  was whether there was a lack of adequate government funding, leading to there being an insufficient number of air traffic controllers. I wish to add briefly to the answer I gave a few minutes ago. It is true that there is currently a relatively small shortage of controllers. However, steps were taken last year to rectify the position by accelerating the recruitment and training program. The situation should be fully rectified by August of this year. I am advised that the controller situation cannot be attributed to an inadequacy in government funding and that the level of funding has been appropriate to the established needs for air safety equipment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  1 seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to modify the fiveyear expenditure profile of Commonwealth funds provided to assist the States with urban public transport improvements. It has become necessary following decisions to defer a portion of the funds available in 1978-79 and 1979-80 in the light of wider budget considerations. As honourable senators will recall, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in his election policy speech last November that the Commonwealth would initiate a new program for urban public transport. The program would provide $300m over five years to assist States with upgrading their urban public transport systems. It was to follow on from the earlier program. Under the Urban Public Transport Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, about $ 190m of Commonwealth funds had been provided to assist the States with urban public transport improvements over the five years to June 1978. 
The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978 honoured our election policy commitment. As was pointed out in the second reading speech, the principles of the new legislation had been the subject of extensive discussions between my colleague the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and his State government counterparts, as well as between officials. The 1978 Act included provision of $200m of Commonwealth funds at the rate of $40m per annum over the period 1978-79 and 1982-83, with allocation between States as set out in the Schedule to the Act; and provision under section 8 of $ 100m, available at the rate of $20m per annum, for allocation between States on the basis of needs. 
I would like to remind honourable senators that the Commonwealth funds of $300m provided under the 1978 Act represent an increase of more than 50 per cent over the funds provided by the Commonwealth to the States under the previous Urban Public Transport Agreement. The 1978 Act therefore reflects this Government's support for urban public transport improvements. As honourable senators are aware,  Mr Nixon  has notified the States of the 1978-79 approvals. Whilst these approvals cover more than one year for some States, approvals have been restricted to the level of funds set out in the Schedule to the Act. It is the Government's intention to maintain the total urban public transport program at $300m to 1982-83. However, decisions have been taken in the light of budget requirements to defer the allocation of $25m out of the full $40m otherwise available under section 8 in 1978-79 and 1979-80. The Bill before the Senate provides for the deferred $2 5 m to be included in an amended Schedule to the Act for the final three years from 1980-81 to 1982-83. The Commonwealth allocation by Schedule thus will be increased from $200m at the rate of $40m each year to $225m with yearly allocations as follows: 1 978-79-$40m; 1 979-80-$40m; 1980-8 1 -$45m; 1 9 8 1 - 82 -$ 50 m; 1982-83-$50m. 
The total amount to be provided by way of Schedule allocations to each State over the five years to 1982-83 is as follows: 

<graphic href="080232197902216_55_2.jpg"></graphic>

The apportionment between States in the amended Schedule is in the same proportions as in the current Schedule to the 1978 Act. 
The remaining $75m in the $300m program will still be available for allocation between States on a needs basis over the remaining four years of the program as follows: $15min 1979-80 $20m per annum in 1980-81, 1981-82 and 1982-83. 
This Bill therefore maintains the Government's longer term support for urban public transport, while meeting the current need for financial restraint. It does not impinge upon basic principles incorporated in the 1978 Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In view of the importance of the Drug Intelligence Reporting Centre Telecom made special technical and operational arrangements whereby calls incoming to that Centre are charged to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. These arrangements were undertaken as an interim measure because of the urgent nature of the request and pending consideration by Telecom of a new service known as INWATS (Inward Wide Area Telephone Service). Telecom is currently preparing the network for the introduction of an INWATS service similar to the type of service already operating in several overseas countries. The facilities provided by this service will enable callers to gain access to particular organisations over the trunk network for the price of a local call. The organisation providing this service will be required to lease special lines from the network to their answering positions and to pay the trunk charges incurred in excess of the local call fee paid by the caller. 
This INWATS service would meet the situtation raised by the honourable senator provided that the Government Departments concerned are willing to pay the appropriate charges for the service, Le., rental for the special lines plus the appropriate trunk call charges. Telecom expects the service to become progressively available to customers in the second half of 1979. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia is planning the introduction of a new type of service- known as Inward Wide Area Telephone Service- whereby subscribers such as business firms or Government Departments will be able to lease special lines at appropriate charges (rental plus charges per call) to enable persons at distant locations to make STD-type calls to them but pay only a local call free. 
This service would, of course, be of benefit to people located in areas remote from Government Departments and other organisations, providing the Departments and organisations are willing to pay the appropriate charges for the service. 
Technical modifications are necessary to provide this facility and Telecom expects the service to become progressively available to customers in the second half of 1979. 
Public Telephones: Use by Handicapped People 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom is aware that handicapped persons and especially those who are confined to wheelchairs would encounter some difficulty in using a public telephone enclosed in a full length booth. 
For this reason Telecom is, wherever practicable, ensuring that where there are a number of public telephones in a group at places such as post offices, airports, railway stations and other similar locations that at least one is installed at a suitable height so that disadvantaged people may use it. This service is already provided by Telecom at many of the locations mentioned and by signposts and other means. Every effort is made to ensure that handicapped persons are made aware of this facility. 
Telecom will provide additional public telephone facilities for handicapped persons as part of its current national modernisation program to replace all older type public telephones with the new STD units. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator 's question: 
I am advised by Telecom Australia that a marked decline in the use of Australian public telegram and lettergram services has occurred over a number of years. This decline has been accompanied by a growth in telephone and telex services, however, the Commission is most concerned at the annual losses consistently being incurred by the telegram service. 
In 1977-78, after allowing for tariff increases and cost reductions, the public telegram service recovered only SO per cent of its costs from telegram users. The subsidy, therefore, paid by telephone customers to maintain the telegram service was $9.00 per telephone service. Had charges remained at 1974-75 levels the subsidy would have approximated $ 1 2.00 per telephone service. 
Further tariff changes were introduced from 1 October 1978 in order to reduce the extent to which the service was subsidised. 
Under the new system there is a fixed charge, which reflects the underlying costs incurred in handling each telegram, plus a charge for each word contained in the message with a minimum of 12 words. The word rate remains unaltered at 1 5 cents. For ordinary rate telegrams to a street address the fixed charge is $1.50 and telegrams attracting this charge are delivered by the fastest normal method available at the office of destination. A lower fixed charge to 50 cents applies where the sender addresses his telegram for delivery by telephone or to a telegraphic code address. If addressed for delivery by telex or mail there is no fixed charge component and the charge for the message is calculated solely on the word rate. 
Although lettergrams were a little cheaper to handle than telegrams, the revenue per word derived from lettergrams was much lower than that from telegrams and consequently the service was most uneconomic. In view of the unfavourable economic position of the service and the fact that demand had so declined that it was being utilised by very few of Telecom's customers, it was decided that the service would be replaced, from 1 October 1 978,. by the mail delivery telegram service. 
This financial year a loss, on average, is still being incurred on each originated telegram and, consequently, any successful action by the Commission to promote the use of the telegram service, as suggested, would only result in an increased loss in this area of its operations. The Commission has an obligation under the Telecommunications Act to cover its operating costs and provide at least 50 per cent of its capital needs from revenue. Any increased losses, therefore, could only be covered by the Commission raising the charges for its other telecommunications services. The Commission believes that any such promotional action would not be in the best interest of its users overall. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Australia Post has assured me that it is very conscious of the communications problems of people living in remote areas of Australia. 
While mail is delivered to as many station properties as practicable there are some stations where delivery services are not provided. Mail is only one of the commodities for distribution in outback areas and is generally so small in volume that it is rarely practicable for Australia Post to provide a transport service purely for mail conveyance. Mail deliveries to station properties in these areas are provided generally where they can be associated with an existing transport service for the carriage of passengers or goods. The establishment of mail delivery services is thus determined largely by the overall transport needs of the area and the transport services available. 
Whilst no provisions exist under postal legislation which would provide relief for outback families where children are being educated by correspondence, the Government does provide correspondence allowances under the Assistance for Isolated Children scheme. This scheme is administered by the Minister for Education. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Change of Government in Sweden 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The  Chairman  of the ABC has informed me that it is not true that either ABC News journalists or officers responsible for public affairs programs refused to report the change of government in Sweden. The fact was reported in the national radio news bulletin on the morning of 6 October and a further national news item referring to the appointment of the new Swedish Cabinet was broadcast on 19 October. The election of a new Swedish Government was not considered to be of sufficient interest to Australian listeners to also warrant inclusion in ABC public affairs programs. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Early this year, the Government and the Australian aircraft industry became aware that the Boeing Airplane Company was contemplating launching new civil aircraft programs in 1 978. As a result of approaches made, Boeing offered Australian participation in the Boeing 767 project on a commercial basis, as it had already done to the Italian and Japanese industries under long standing arrangements. 
The manufacturing task offered by Boeing was for the sole source manufacture of Boeing 767 wing ribs. Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd was to be the Australian prime contractor, with a substantial part of the work to be subcontracted to the Government Aircraft Factories. Substantial investment in capital facilities was required. The value of the task was in the order of $50m. 
In the development of an Australian program to meet Boeing's manufacturing requirements, including cost estimates and pricing proposals, Hawker de Havilland worked closely with the Government authorities concerned, primarily the Department of Productivity and its Government Aircraft Factories. The pricing proposal was framed to recover all direct costs of production as well as investment costs; some fixed overheads of the manufacturing organisations (already financed from Departmental appropriations) were not apportioned to the project in the pricing proposal. 
In September and October, Boeing negotiated in US with senior executives from Hawker de Havilland and the Government Aircraft Factories. These negotiations were supported by the Government. However, in the event Boeing did not accept the price offered by the Australian industry and has since placed the work elsewhere. 
The Australian Government and the Australian Aircraft industry are disappointed at losing this contract which would have represented a substantial workload for the industry and a major gain in technology. However, in the Government's judgment the pricing offered by the industry was the lowest that could be made commensurate with the inherent risks associated with a new civil aircraft program. 
The Government recognises offset work such as this to be of major importance to the aircraft industry as a source of workload and technology contributing to our overall defence production capability. Several major US and European aircraft companies have placed offset orders on Australian industry. Indeed Boeing has within the last two months placed further orders valued at about $20m on both Hawker de Havilland and the Government Aircraft Factories for major components for Boeing 727 aircraft, bringing the total quantities ordered to 972 ship sets. I expect that further orders will be placed in Australia in line with the continued world wide orders Boeing is receiving for that extremely successful aircraft. 
Offset work will continue to be sought from overseas companies supplying Australia with major equipment such as, in the aircraft field, civil aircraft for the airlines and military aircraft for Defence. The offset proposals made by suppliers are one of the criteria against which competing proposals are judged. Nevertheless the Government recognises that Australian industry must be cost competitive in bidding for offset work, and there is a limit to the level of support the Government can provide. 
Achievement of offset work requires an energetic and hard working business approach by the Australian industry. So far the Australian aircraft industry has received offsets valued at nearly $120m, and I see no reason why the industry should not continue to win substantial offset orders in the future. 
On 15 November (page 20 1 3 of  Hansard)  Senator Bishop  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce a question and a supplementary question without notice concerning industry developments in Whyalla. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following reply: 
As the  Senator would  be aware, the Premier of South Australia has established a Working Party on Whyalla with a view to identifying measures which might assist with countering the effects of the closure of the shipbuilding activities. The Commonwealth Government has assisted the Working Party wherever possible in its investigations of industries and products and in other ways. I can assure  Senator Bishop  that such co-operation is continuing. Other contacts between Governments include those maintained through regular Commonwealth/State Industry Ministers' and Officials' Meetings and through the Premiers' Conference and Loan Council Meetings. 
On the employment and welfare side, the Commonwealth Government has taken steps to ensure that the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security are strengthened as necessary to meet the particular needs of the Whyalla situation. 
In respect of particular proposals relating to industry development in Whyalla involving the Commonwealth, steps taken by the Government are as follows: 
financial assistance has been offered to Pacific Salt Pty Ltd through the Decentralisation Advisory Board for the establishment of a salt processing plant in Whyalla. 
a builder of small boats in Whyalla, Spencer Engineering Pty Ltd, was recently registered as a shipyard eligible to seek bounty on vessels constructed within the terms of the Ship Construction Bounty Act. 
the recent Loan Council approval of a special borrowing program for the Redcliff project will be of major significance to Whyalla and the nearby region. The program provides that in the event of the project going ahead, the South Australian Government will be able to borrow for essential infrastructure subject to separate Loan Council consideration in the light of particular requirements of the project and economic and financial circumstances at the time. Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd has subsequently announced that it will undertake a final feasibility study to determine whether to go ahead with this project. 
the Premier's Working Party put to the Commonwealth a proposal for the establishment of a railway rolling-stock facility at Whyalla. The proposal was subjected to careful and detailed examination by Commonwealth officials and the Commonwealth's response has been conveyed to the Premier of South Australia. 1 am informed that this matter remains under active consideration by the State Government. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce on his visit to Whyalla in June 1978 discussed progress on a number of projects involving Commonwealth action including the Redcliff project, railway rolling-stock, manufacture of bailey bridges and the registration of Spencer Engineering Pty Ltd. The position on three of these is noted under (b), (c) and (d) above. 1 understand that the question of bailey bridge manufacture is being pursued by the South Australian authorities. 
In addition, the Minister stressed that the Commonwealth Government would assist the South Australian Government and the Whyalla community in responding to changed circumstances. 
On 22 November  Senator Collard  asked me a question concerning financial assistance to the Pritchard steam engine. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is true that, at present, the Commonwealth Government has declined to provide further financial assistance to Pritchard Steam Power Pty Ltd to allow it to continue its tests on the 3 power units already made for the company by the Commonwealth at no cost to the company. The present grant has not been curtailed, nor has the company yet spent all the moneys provided. The present Government position is based on the rather slow progress the company has made in the tests with the money now being provided, its failure to raise the supplementary funds that it undertook to raise when the present agreements were entered into, and the lack of success the company has had in generating any contributing interest in its work on the new power units. 
I understand that the company has recently run into some mechanical problems with the units which are likely to delay progress for a while; I do not have specific details. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) In order to answer the honourable senator's question it would be necessary to obtain details of flags purchased from all departments and various statutory authorities. This would involve a considerable use of resources for research, typing and collation of information which I am not prepared to authorise in the present period of financial restraint. 
I will seek information on the matter raised by the honourable senator and give him a reply as soon as possible. 
I will refer both inquiries to  Mr Staley  for answers. 
-I will refer those two questions also to  Mr Staley  for answers. 
From the remarks made by  Senator Cavanagh  who has just resumed his seat, I understand he was concerned that this matter would not be dealt with and he thought that this was an extremely bad thing for the Senate. I must say that, although as far as I know this motion has not been considered by the Government, I do think the Government would wish it to be dealt with. The role of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances is well established in this place and I do not believe that any government would wish that role to be circumvented or in any sense made less than it should be. I am concerned that I should give some response to  Senator Cavanagh.  I cannot be quite as definite as I would be if perhaps the matter were within my own direct responsibility, but what I had in mind was perhaps giving some sort of undertaking on behalf of the Government that the motion, if adjourned tonight, could be brought forward again within some denned period, as a matter of General Business. 
I actually had in mind four weeks.  Senator Missen  suggested one week and, being the character that I am, I suggest a compromise of three weeks. So, I think the motion may well warrant some further consideration in debate and it would probably warrant some government comment. I have to say that I am not in a position to make that comment this evening, so for that reason I suggest that I be given leave to continue my remarks and I will preface the seeking of leave with an undertaking that the matter will be brought on in General Business within three sitting weeks. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) -by leave- I do not want to stop the proper resolving of this problem at all. While the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  says that he will wait three weeks and then come back with comment, I think that is possibly too long. Nevertheless, the debate is now adjourned. I am concerned because I think that if this matter were discussed among Ministers within Cabinet there could be a different attitude on the part of Ministers and there could be some response to the pleas that have been made by  Senator Missen.  It may then not be necessary to carry the motion. So if the Minister could do more than prepare a reply within three weeks, if he could come back and tell the Senate something that the Government has resolved to do about this problem which has been raised, then I think the whole matter would be resolved. 

 Senator MISSEN (Victoria)-by leave-I appreciate the position of  Senator Chaney.  At the same time, this matter has been brought on today and we had first notice of it this morning, as had the Government. I find it incredible to think that some members of the Government did not know that this report was here, that the matter was on the list and that it was coming on today. I feel that to put it off for three weeks means putting it off for four weeks because we are sitting for two more weeks of this present period. I think the matter ought to be disposed of in this current three weeks. I think it would be perfectly ample if the adjourned debate were brought on within the next two weeks. 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leave- I only say to  Senator Missen  that I am exercising some caution in the matter because I do not think it is a matter within my own responsibility. I will certainly do what I can to ensure that it is dealt with within the current period of sittings. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (1), (2) and (3)  Mr Miller's  appointment as Special Adviser commenced during June 1978 flowing on from his role during 1977-78 as  Chairman  of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. The arrangement was that  Mr Miller  would receive no salary for this position but that certain administrative facilities of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation would be retained for the purposes of assisting him and in anticipation of the creation of a Bicentennial Celebrations organisation. 
The administrative facilities consisted of office accommodation and office facilities, official transport as required and a staff of two persons- an information officer and a steno-secretary. 
No expenditure relating to  Mr Miller's  new post is included in the 1977-78 period. Expenditure on facilities provided for  Mr Miller  brought to account during the period 1 
July 1978 to 31 December 1978-excluding the costs of facilities referred to in the October meeting of the Estimates Committee and associated with the July meeting of the Bureau of International Expositions in Paris- total $45,400 made up as follows: 
I have not seen the report to which  Senator Bonner  referred but someone did mention it to me. I do not know whether  Mr Porter  is accurately quoted in that report. I must say to the Senate and to  Senator Bonner  that there is no question of there being a referendum about whether Aboriginals should be under Queensland or Commonwealth control because the Federal Government certainly does not seek the control of Aboriginals and I do not believe that the Aboriginal and Islander people in Queensland want a government controlling them. So, if that is a direct quote of what  Mr Porter  said, I think it is not apt. Other States of Australia transferred responsibility for policy, planning and co-ordination of Aboriginal affairs to the Commonwealth Government, but that does not mean that the Commonwealth assumed all responsibility for services for Aboriginal people. In fact, the States remain responsible in fields such as health, education, welfare and, of course, land, which is of vital importance to Aboriginals. 
My belief, and I think it is the belief of the Government, is that what Queensland Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders want is a greater degree of responsibility in managing their affairs. That is particularly so on reserves which have been set aside for their benefit. These are issues which are currently being discussed between the Commonwealth and State governments following the recent request from the Yarrabah Council that it be brought under the Commonwealth legislation. At the moment the reserve councils in Queensland are in the process of holding their elections. They have the opportunity to elect to their councils people to express views on their behalf. It might be that, in the light of that election opportunity which is offered to them, a referendum is not necessary. 
To respond to  Senator Bonner's  question, the Commonwealth would welcome anything that is done to ensure that Aboriginal people have the opportunity to make their own decisions and to manage their own affairs. If it becomes apparent to me that a referendum of the Aboriginal people of Queensland is a necessary step to increase the opportunity for Aboriginal self-management, I will welcome and support it. 
I have some information from the Minister for Transport on this matter. I am advised that he would have no more reason to consider banning the tanker  Balderberg  than many other tankers visiting Australia. The incidents that occurred on this vessel could have happened on virtually any other tanker. In any case, it is doubtful that the more serious of the incidents in which the vessel was involved was attributable to either the ship or its crew. The Minister has shown considerable concern about the standards of tankers visiting Australia and the safety procedures associated with their loading and discharge. Last month he announced in the Press that officers from his Department will in future inspect all large tankers at their first port of call in Australia to check on the seaworthiness of the ship, the crew qualifications, their experience and, in particular, the handling and safety precautions observed during loading and discharging operations at the terminals. 
This arrangement is a direct result of a series of meetings his Department had with the industry last year. In addition, two officers from the Department of Transport have recently inspected each of the Australian marine oil refinery terminals to examine safety measures that are necessary to deal with any emergencies which may arise on a tanker, and the report of the surveys is expected to be available to the Minister in the near future. It is understood that the vessel  Balderberg  was on charter to Texaco and the charterers' agent in Australia was H. C. Sleigh Ltd. 
I will seek from the Minister for Transport the information that  Senator Mulvihill  wants. 
I have not heard of the incident raised in  Senator Cavanagh  's question. If the facts are as he has outlined it would appear very likely that there is an entitlement to workers' compensation. I will make inquiries about the matter and whether workers' compensation payments have been made. If there is any question or dispute about liability I will see that the matter is pursued. 
I very much doubt whether there is any substance in the point raised by the honourable senator in his question. There is a two-airline policy and, as I understand it, Trans- Australia Airlines, which is Ansett 's competitor, does not have any investments in such companies and there does not appear to be any difference between the fare structures. 
-Although I do frequently read New Zealand newspapers I try not to read any reports about crashes of aeroplanes. Like other honourable senators I spend a good deal of time in them. I have not seen the report to which  Senator Townley  refers. I will refer his question about hovercraft being used for rescue operations at airports to the Minister for Transport for inquiry. 
I recall a number of questions and debates or discussions on this matter last year in the Senate and in its committees. Certainly, as I recall, the debate went beyond the point of the explanation that I gave at one point about costs. I think there were various statements about programming problems and so on. I do not remember all that detail. I will make the inquiries requested by the honourable senator and let him have a reply. 
The Senate is debating the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill 1979. I thank  Senator Davidson  for his support of the Bill. I would like to make just a few comments on the points made by  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator McAuliffe  for the Opposition.  Senator Gietzelt,  who led for the Opposition, made a number of statements about the importance of urban public transport. He made a speech which in general, I suppose, put the view that the present Government is placing very little emphasis on urban public transport. He, of course, stressed the influence of the previous Labor Government in providing assistance. It is interesting, therefore, to look at what  Mr Nixon,  the present Minister for Transport, had to say in a debate on the legislation we are amending. On 1 3 April 1 97 8 in the House of Representatives he said:  . . it was as a result of an Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in South Australia in July 1 972 at which I tabled a report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on the needs of urban public transport that the first Bill of this  nature was introduced in 1973 after the change in government. 
A little later  Mr Nixon  stated: 
There is an old saying that success has a thousand fathers. 
That small item as to the origin of these grants is perhaps significant. The timing of  Senator Gietzelt  's speech is a little hard to understand when one looks at the support that has been given to the States for urban public transport since 1972. Whilst it is true that the initial legislation passed in 1974 covered the 1972-73 period, one finds that the allocations for 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76 totalled $78.92m, starting off with $12.52m in 1973-74, $32.5 lm the following year and $33.89m the year after. However, in the two years of Liberal Government which followed that period and which are included in the first five years of the program, a total of $ 109m was granted to the States. So there was a very substantial increase in the level of finance in the first two years of this Government. Out of the total amount of $191m which was paid over that first five-year period nearly $79m was paid by the Labor Government in three years and $109m was paid by our Government in two years. 
We then find that the Government committed itself to spending a total of $300m on urban public transport in the following five-year period and making that amount available to the States. This Bill does not alter the totals. I think that has been made clear in the debate on this Bill. Rather, it seeks to alter the time of payment of some of the money. It was envisaged originally that there would be annual payments of $60m with $40m being paid in a manner which is set out in the legislation and with $20m being paid on a needs basis on an assessment year by year. It is quite clear from the second reading speech that the Government has reviewed this program in the light of the fact that it has been imposing expenditure restraints. It has postponed payment of $25m of the discretionary moneys to the last two years of the five-year program. I have no doubt that the recipients would rather receive the money now than in three years time. It is perfectly true to say that a dollar now is worth more than a dollar will be worth in three years time, and I think this applies irrespective of inflation. Any financier would say that that is the case. 
The Government has not sought to hide its financial strategy. The Government has made it perfectly clear that it regards the restriction on government expenditure as fundamental to its economic policy. Without apology it has rearranged the payments in the manner that is set out in this Bill. The fact is that it has reduced the amount of discretionary money which will be paid and increased the amount of money which will be paid under the proportions which are established by the Bill. But I think it is wrong to suggest that going from a payment of $19 lm over five years to a payment of $300m over the following five years suggests some deemphasising of the importance of urban public transport. Whilst the Government by its declaration of intention in the 1978 legislation would clearly have liked to have made these additional funds available in the current year and in the following financial year where there is some reduction, it has been decided that it is in the best interests of Australia and the Australian economy that these payments should be postponed; that, quite simply, is what this Bill is all about. 

 Senator McAuliffe put forward a plea about the burdens on the ratepayers of Brisbane. I think he would accept that that is a matter which really has to be settled between the Brisbane City Council and the Queensland Government. I think it is true that in most States the losses on urban transport systems are a charge on the general revenue of the State and as such part of the costs is borne by taxpayers outside of the metropolitan area. It may well be that the taxpayers of Queensland generally would say that the loss should be more fairly borne by the people who incur the loss and use the transport, namely, the people of Brisbane, but that is a domestic argument for Queensland. I am more than pleased to leave the settlement of that dispute to the authorities of the Brisbane City Council and the Queensland State Government. I would like to profess a benign neutrality in that matter. I leave it to the wisdom of government processes to sort out. 
The only other point I want to mention is that  Senator McAuliffe  also raised the question of assistance which has been promised by the Government for railways. My information is that there was certainly a promise that $70m would be made available over a five-year period. It is true that currently there is $3m in the first year. My understanding is that these programs will have to be built up and that the Government will have to make increasing amounts available as the programs develop. I would say, in fairness to the Labor Government, that no doubt the same comments would apply in part to the programs for urban transport that were commenced in 1974. Obviously it is unlikely that there will be a constant rate of expenditure. It is likely that there will be a low rate of expenditure in the early years which will then increase. That statement stands to reduce somewhat the force of the remarks I made earlier on the Bill as to where the expenditure lies in the first five years of the program, but I made those remarks simply to show that the emphasis that has been placed on the program by the present Government is one which has consistently regarded urban public transport as extremely important to the people who live in the great urban centres of Australia. 
I do not wish to detain the Senate any further. Needless to say following the remarks I have made, the Government does not accept the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Gietzelt.  I do not accept that postponement of the payment of $20m in 1978-79 and postponement of the payment of $5m in 1979-80 should be a matter of severe criticism. That postponement is aimed at the economic welfare of the country and honourable senators with an interest in transport would know that the cost of road building, rail construction and all the rest has been as much a victim of inflation as any other activity in Australia and actions taken by the Government to maintain a lower rate of inflation are in the interests that we are seeking to serve in this program. Therefore, I commend the Bill to the Senate and oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The comments made by the honourable senators raise matters of substance and I perhaps can say only that I am a little surprised that  Senator Davidson's  remarks were not made by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Cavanagh  's remarks were not made by  Senator Davidson.  I note the comments made by each and the fact that this matter was raised in April last year during the debate on the original Bill in the House of Representatives. The Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  made some comments about it. At page 1557 of  Hansard  of 13 April 1978, he was reported as having said: 
There is a relationship between this Bill and urban planning, and there is a lot of work done by the Australian Transport  Advisory  Council and the State Ministers on the impact of urban transport expenditure of this nature on urban planning and urban growth as a whole. There is a direct relationship that cannot be ignored. 
Several paragraphs later he was reported as having said: 
The States are co-operating with us. We have joint planning committees to try to evaluate the impact of urban public transport programs in the major cities, and in that way I think we are covering this point. 
I really cannot add more than that. I think that there is something of a delicate line to be drawn in this area. If one accepts the Federal system and the jurisdiction of the States in this matter, as  Senator Cavanagh  does, then obviously it becomes a matter of judgment as to how far one imposes on that State discretion. On the other hand, if one adopts  Senator Davidson's  point that the Commonwealth after all is paying over these funds which have a significant influence on urban planning and we all have some responsibility, then I suggest to honourable senators that this sort of co-operative committee work is probably the only way in which one can really approach this matter. I note that last year  Mr Nixon  also observed that he thought that perhaps this is a larger subject on which we might need a more philosophic debate. I must say that I rather echo those sentiments during this committee debate. 
I do not have a lot to add, but once I did not rise in response to  Senator Cavanagh  and I have always regretted not doing so. Consequently, I respond on this occasion. In the scheme of things under the principal Act, the States put forward proposals as being proposals which warrant funding under the Act, for either the scheduled grants or the needs grants, which are also provided for. I think the justification for the Commonwealth's maintaining any role at all is that it is taking from the taxpayers of Australia funds which it is using to provide supplementary assistance- and no more than supplementary assistance- to States on quite differing bases. In other words, there is no per capita assessment. It is an assessment on  numerous factors which is meant to achieve some reasonable situation for each of the States. 
No, the federalism policy has never denied the role of the Grants Commission, say, to take a really classic example of an instrument which is available for ironing out inequalities between the States. So, federalist as we are, we would still accept that in various programs there will be a need for differential treatment because of differential conditions in different parts of Australia. As in all things, one is required to marry a number of principles together, and I think the marriage in this case is not a particularly awkward one. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
None. 
I have no knowledge of the matters raised by  Senator Melzer.  I will refer them to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  and seek a reply for her. 
I refer only to the second of the two matters raised by  Senator McLaren  this evening. That matter related basically to a discrepancy between an answer given by me in the Senate to a question on notice and an answer given without notice in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  on 22 February.  Senator McLaren  has correctly pointed out that there is a discrepancy between those two answers, with  Mr McLeay  indicating a slightly higher total figure than the figure which I gave  Senator McLaren  in response to his question on notice.  Senator McLaren  made it quite clear that two of the four categories of payment which were referred to in my answer correspond with the figures given by  Mr McLeay  and there is a difference with respect to two of the items. In one case there is a difference of $702.93 and in the other case a difference of $ 1 73.60. 1 think that  Senator McLaren  is certainly entitled to an explanation of that difference. 
I sought information from  Mr McLeay,  on whose behalf I answered the question. He has advised me as follows: The answer that was originally prepared for  Senator McLaren  and the material which had been prepared for that answer was in  Mr McLeay  's possession. That was the basis of the answer which he gave in the House of Representatives. However, subsequent to  Mr McLeay  being given that information, officers of the Finance Branch of the Department of Administrative Services performed a further detailed check of the figures included in the draft answer and, as a result, determined that amounts totalling $876.53 should be excluded from expenditure in relation to the 1988 bicentenary because they were properly chargeable to  Mr Miller's  work for the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. Those amounts are the amounts I mentioned of $702.93 for telephone services and $ 1 73.60 for car hire. 

 Mr McLeay had only just found out about this discrepancy and proposes to correct those figures in the House of Representatives. But I thought that, in view of the fact that the matter had been raised here, it should properly be cleared up here. That information can be repeated in the other place. As  Senator McLaren  has also indicated in his comments, he has placed on notice a series of questions about telephone accounts submitted by  Mr Harry  M. Miller. I do not have the ability to give an answer to those questions on notice now. That answer should be made available in the not too distant future and will be made available to the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Transport is responsible for the maintenance of the following New South Wales terminal buildings: Sydney International (domestic terminals are owned and maintained by the airlines), Canberra, Broken Hill, Coffs Harbour, Tamworth, Wagga and Williamtown. 
All other terminal buildings are maintained by the particular aerodrome owners, with financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan where applicable. 
I do have some information on the matter raised by  Senator Baume.  I am informed that the New South Wales Police moved with the demonstrators from Martin Plaza to Chifley Square, outside the Government Centre. When some of the demonstrators entered the building, the New South Wales Police entered the building with them and requested them to leave. The building was then cleared without incident. I am advised that Commonwealth Police were informed of the presence of the group at 1.33 p.m. and that the first Commonwealth Police car arrived at the building at 1.40 p.m. So the response time was only 7 minutes. However, it is my understanding that by the time Commonwealth Police arrived the building had been cleared. I am not certain on that point, but my understanding is that it was cleared without incident and the Commonwealth Police were not involved. The post in question is normally manned by two members of the Commonwealth Police, but one member was absent that day due to illness. There was only one member on duty on 26 February. He was temporarily absent from the entrance area conducting an inquiry in another part of the building when the group arrived. 
Once again, I cannot give the honourable senator a detailed answer to his question. I recall that during my short period as Minister for Administrative Services the Commonwealth Police Association raised with me the question of staffing levels in a number of areas. Honourable senators will recall a question asked, I think, by  Senator Baume  about the number of people in the cheques squad in the light of a large number of outstanding complaints about cheques. As I recall, I certainly put to the Police Association the point of view that any significant review of staffing ought to await the formation of the new Australian Federal Police on the basis that a good deal has to be done in the merging of the two forces. To expand one force significantly, if that were required, just prior to merger seemed to me to be not a very sensible procedure. I have no knowledge of there being any difficulty with respect to security matters, as is suggested in the last part of the honourable senator's question. However, I will refer the various elements of the question to  Mr McLeay,  and seek a full reply. 
-The Australian Tourist Commission has developed a scheme called Make Friends for Australia' which is meant to motivate Australians going overseas- of whom there are very large numbers- to act as tourism ambassadors for this country. The travelling public are being told about the scheme through Press, television and radio advertising which commenced on Monday, 26 February. A booklet is available for travellers as they depart the country which will provide information to enable them to talk knowledgeably, and, we hope, enthusiastically about the attractions of Australia as a tourist destination. 
The booklet also incorporates a follow-up system which will enable people who show interest to be contacted and encouraged to visit Australia. This proposal is receiving support from both State and Territory governments and the tourist industry, with total contributions from those sources of $270,000. This development of international tourism is of great importance to Australia because a great number of Australians proceed in the other direction. This is one of a number of marketing thrusts being undertaken by the Tourist Commission as a result of the increased support given to the Commission by this Government and other governments. I should mention, I think, that if honourable senators are interested in the development of this scheme, as I have just been reminded by  Senator Rae,  there is to be a discussion on it in Senate Committee rooms 1 and 2 at 6 o'clock this evening. Any honourable senators who have 20 minutes to spare at that time might go down and listen to the officers of the Australian Tourist Commission expounding on this subject. 
-Last week  Senator Cavanagh  asked me a question about  Mr Tiger 
Yadijajeri, an Aboriginal who, as the question stated, was employed by Lord Vestey 's Gordon Downs Pty Ltd and who was knocked off his horse while mustering.  Senator Cavanagh  asked me whether workers compensation had been paid and, if not, whether something would be done about the matter. I have made some inquiries, as I undertook to do. I am advised that the Aboriginal Legal Service is aware of  Mr Tiger  Yadjajeri 's situation but it has not been able to lodge a claim for compensation. It has not been able to contact  Mr Yadjajeri.  The difficulty in making contact arises from the fact that he has been moving frequently among different stations and communities in the East Kimberleys.  His  uncertain whereabouts, combined with communication problems occasioned by adverse weather conditions and the remoteness of the area, have prevented the finalisation of a claim. I have asked my area officer in Wyndham to assist, in whatever way he can, in locating  Mr Yadjajeri  I am confident that the Aboriginal Legal Service will pursue the matter as quickly as it is able when  Mr Yadjajeri  has been contacted. 
The implication, from the information I have, is yes, but I have not been given a firm reply. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the text of a statement dated 22 February 1979 by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  concerning the introduction of export facilitation measures to the motor vehicle plan. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Nil. 
Not applicable see ( 1 ). 
Certain Aboriginals claiming to be Aboriginal traditional owners of that area have already moved to some extent to protect their own interest by lodging a claim before the Aboriginal Lands Commissioner. The claim is expected to be heard later this year. So the legislative provisions which have passed through the Parliament, with the consent of both sides, are being used by those people to establish their position. As far as anything beyond that is concerned, obviously my Department will be concerned with the development of the park and with its impact on the Aboriginal people in that area. We will certainly be watching closely to ensure that the interests of the Aboriginal people are protected. 
I do not agree that as a result of the cutbacks in the Australian Broadcasting Commission it is no longer able to offer this service. In fact, if the ABC wants to offer that service it can do so. The Australian Broadcasting Commission receives an allocation of funds, and that allocation is a matter of public knowledge. I think it is in excess of $100m. What the Commission does with that money is very much a matter of its own discretion. Apparently it has decided in its order of priorities that it does not intend to continue to offer that service. The honourable senator who asked the question will remember that some discussion on this subject took place at the hearings of the Estimates Committees last year. I think those discussions showed that the Commission had rather mixed feelings about the value of the transcript service, although my colleague,  Senator Watson,  I think expressed very great enthusiasm for transcripts of the Commission's science program. In any event, that decision has been taken by the Commission and it is a matter for it. I have heard that a private company- I was not aware of its name- is offering transcripts for sale. If there is a market for transcripts or for tapes of the comments made by my colleague,  Mr Staley,  at $ 1 7 a throw, I can only congratulate that company for showing such extraordinary prescience. I would have thought that almost any politician who found that his words could be peddled at the rate of $17 a cassette would be filled with enormous self-satisfaction. 
-I must say that I was a little puzzled about the copyright aspects when the question was asked. I am fortified by the fact that the Standing Orders prelude me from offering a legal opinion. Therefore, I have no intention of answering the question. 
A number of other questions on safety measures have been asked. The information I have received from the Department of Transport about those questions has been that there has been no restriction on funding in connection with safety measures. With respect to the matters which were raised by the honourable senator, I am advised that there has been a preliminary analysis of the incidents to which he referred with a view to determining the reason for the increased numbers. It is a matter which requires analysis because there was no dramatic change in procedures or traffic characteristics during last year which would explain the increase. Although there was some change in the rules, it was something which was not effective until late November. So that is not regarded as having any relationship to the figures referred to by the honourable senator. There is no apparent trend in regard to a specific location or any particular industry group, but the greatest increase is in respect of operations outside controlled air space where judgment of separation is more likely to be subjective rather than scientific, lt is possible that the increase is a consequence of greater awareness of the problem and a greater reporting of incidents, although that is not something of which we can be certain. A further detailed analysis is in progress and 1979 developments have been closely monitored. I think the Minister has this matter under close examination. 
I understand that the group mentioned by the honourable senator met with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications yesterday. I am advised that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, in its report on self-regulation for broadcasters, recommended that there should be increasing percentages of Australian content and that from 1 May 1979 stations should increase Australian performances to 30 per cent of the time occupied by the transmission of music. So I suppose the answer to the first part of the question is yes. The Tribunal also recommended that of the time occupied by music programs not less than 10 per cent should consist of the works of Australian composers. The Government, for its part, has indicated its general endorsement of the Tribunal's recommendations in this area and has asked the tribunal to consider specifically the desirability of continuing to foster programs which are Australian in character and which provide opportunity for Australian talent. 
The Minister indicated to the delegation that he met yesterday that their objectives are not inconsistent with the Government's policy as has been advised to the Broadcasting Tribunal. It does appear that the views of the Government, the Tribunal and the recording industry are compatible in this area. The Tribunal itself is currently discussing with the commercial radio industry the detailed implication of this recommendation. This is a matter which is properly for that industry rather than the Government. 
I have read somewhere -I do not know whether it was in the media or in a direct communication- that there has been a call of the sort indicated by the honourable senator. Of course, as the honourable senator would know, from time to time there have been similar requests from different mining interests. There was some publicity about this general area some time ago in a newspaper and I had to issue a statement, which no doubt the honourable senator saw, about the Government's attitude to the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. In that statement I re-expressed, as has the Prime Minister, our commitment to the principles of that Act. I am giving this slightly longer answer to the question than the honourable senator might have wanted because I think it is important that our commitment to those principles is understood. 
Certainly there should be no question of any undue pressure on any community which is seeking to advance its application for land rights before the Land Rights Commissioner. The honourable senator would be aware that last year the Northern Territory Government indicated that it would continue to freeze such applications for a period of two years to enable claims to be lodged and to be proceeded with. Certainly I have been making it clear in the discussions that I have had with the land councils that I am hopeful that they will proceed with claims in good order and at a good rate. Again, I think that is a view that the honourable senator would share with me. Certainly any question of improper or undue pressure would strongly be resisted. I do not think there is any suggestion that there is any of that about. 
I am aware of the activities taking place in Bass Strait with respect to oil, fisheries and recreation, but I am not aware that it is one of the most heavily trafficked seaways in the Southern Hemisphere. I will take  Senator Rae's  word for that. I know that he traffics through the area a good deal and has direct experience of it. I am also aware, because of the placement there of the Australian Maritime College, that it is a major training area. I will refer his statement that there are no modern navigation aids in the area to the Minister for Transport and seek a response on the specific suggestions that he has made. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the rather lengthy second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The Patents Amendment Bill 1979 represents a further new development in the Australian patent system. Its purpose is to bring into operation an optional form of patent protection that has been devised specifically to assist small Australian industries and businesses. It will achieve that by encouraging the inventive activity of Australians in fields that are particularly suited to commercial exploitation by small Australian enterprises. To that extent, therefore, this Bill reflects the continuing commitment of the Government to upgrading Australia's industrial property laws through a process of reform which we believe will make them more responsive to the economic needs of the nation. 
Access by inventors and entrepreneurs to quick, easily obtainable and inexpensive patent protection is the major feature of this measure. The Bill introduces into the existing patent system provision for the statutory protection of patentable inventions by means of the grant of a new short-term patent to be known as a petty patent. The form of this new Australian petty patent system is unique and has no counterpart in other industrial property legislation around the world. The new petty patent will be an additional form of protection to the grant of a patent as traditionally provided for under the present Patents Act. A petty patent will have a minimum term of one year and a maximum of six years, by contrast with the existing patent which has a 16 year term. The existing, traditional patent will in future be known as a 'standard 'patent. 
The technological developments which are most likely to qualify to this new form of petty patent protection are those suited to protection by means of a single patent claim. This means they would normally be inventions which have only one inventive characteristic and which usually consist of only one product. Honourable senators will appreciate that the new petty patent system proposed by this Bill is therefore intended to provide a form of protection which will positively encourage innovation in Australian industry plus the creation of small industries based on innovation. The kinds of innovation aimed for will involve the rapid development of inventions which individually have a short commerciallyexploitable life, such as household or office accessories, gadgets, small appliances, and so on. 
Honourable senators will better appreciate the real significance of the changes to our patents system proposed by the Bill if I explain that existing Australian patents law is founded upon principles developed within the British patent system at the time of the introduction of a national patent system in Australia in 1904- almost 75 years ago to the day. Until now, Australia's patent law had been comprehensively reviewed only twice- in 1937 and in 1952, on both occasions by committees established by the Attorney-General of the day. In the course of these reviews, investigations were confined largely to the legal aspects of patents laws without regard to the underlying economic basis of the patent system which is being recognised here today. Additionally, those early reviews relied heavily on the reports of counterpart reviews of the British patent laws; again without regard as to whether the results of those reviews were relevant to the specific needs of the Australian industry. These attitudes have changed with the growing awareness of the economic value of the patents system as a source of technical information. Britain's patents laws have been amended to accommodate the needs of British industry in its new relationship with the European Economic Community. This Bill similarly recognises that here in Australia, reform of our industrial property system can provide a significant contribution to improving the productivity of industry. 
The existing patents law is based on a system of uniform, relatively long-term protection for inventions. Prior to the grant of a patent, every application is subjected to extensive and lengthy investigations within the patent office. The purpose of such precise and drawn-out procedures is to provide patent grants which have a substantial presumption of validity. The system provides certainty, but at the cost of delays and expense. Because of the time required to perform the operations involved- and their complexity- plus the large numbers of patent applications being lodged the grant of a patent in Australia is subject to extensive delays. Obtaining a patent does involve considerable expense and difficulties for applicants. I hasten to add that Australia is, of course, not the only country facing such problems in its patent system nor are all such problems entirely new. Similar difficulties have led others to a number of solutions including the provision in some countries of a more narrow form of protection generally described as 'petty patents' for technically simple developments, which are generally described as 'utility models'. 
To determine whether similar measures might be appropriate to Australian circumstances, the Designs Law Review Committee- the so-called Franki Committee- established in 1970, was authorised under one of its terms of reference to consider 
. whether separate legislative provisions should be made in Australia with respect to utility models, and, if the Committee recommended such legislation, the provisions which it considered should be included in the legislation. 
The Franki Committee reported in 1973 recommending the introduction of a petty patent system within the existing patents legislation and that report has been widely circulated. Not all the features of the petty patent system recommended by the Franki Committee received unqualified support from industry in Australia. In view of these divided opinions on an appropriate system among the users, I referred the question to the Industrial Property Advisory Committee for resolution. This Advisory Committee, established last year as an industryoriented body to advise me on questions of industrial property, is itself another example of patents and industrial property law reform I referred to earlier. In considering petty patents the Advisory Committee received submissions from industry, inventors and patent attorney organisations, with only one exception, the recommendations of the Committee are incorporated in this Bill. The Committee's report to me on this question is available in the Parliamentary Library or my office will supply honourable senators who are interested with copies. 
Having provided that background to the Bill let me go on to a brief explanation of the major features of the petty patent system which it introduces. Obviously, a basic feature is the scope of the technological developments for which petty patent protection can be obtained under the Bill. The existing standard of inventiveness required for an invention to be patentable has not been changed whether for a standard patent or a petty patent. But an important feature of the new petty patent system is that an application for a petty patent will not automatically be subjected to the rigorous examination applied to applications for standard patents. I wish to emphasise that this distinction does not mean that the Commissioner of Patents will be issuing petty patents with a low presumption of validity. In fact, the Bill requires that he should not do so. But it is anticipated that the nature of inventions covered by a petty patent will be in mechanical and electrical area with perhaps some simple chemical-type inventions. It is therefore expected that it should be relatively easy to have quicker examination of such applications for petty patents. The result of this should be that a petty patent will issue well within one year of lodgment compared to about five years for a standard patent. There will be tangible benefits from this greatly reduced period of examination; a manufacturer or inventor will be able to market or license his petty patent far more expeditiously; secondly they will have a far higher degree of confidence in such commercial negotiations without the previous long delays, and; finally, the cost involved should generally be reduced by half or perhaps more. As I mentioned, the time now taken to grant letters patent for a standard patent is about five years. 
The Bill further expedites the grant of petty patents by the absence of opposition proceedings prior to grant. But, in order to preserve the rights of both competitors and the public, the Bill limits the initial term of a petty patent to 12 months from the date of grant. It makes extension of that term conditional upon the Commissioner being satisfied that there is no ground for refusing to extend the term. To avoid the extension beyond 12 months of the term of petty patents, considered by interested parties to be valid, the Bill has provisions for such persons to notify the Commissioner, during the initial term, of any published matter that affects the validity of a petty patent. To provide petty patent protection which is consistent with the short commerciallyexploitable life of simple inventions, the period of extension of the initial 12 months term of a petty patent is limited to a maximum 6 years from the date of lodgment of a petty patent application- that is, an extension of five years. 
This limited term is a disincentive to unnecessary use of the petty patent system in respect of complex inventions. 
This Bill will provide a new and optional form of patent protection for Australian industry. The nature of this protection means that it is primarily directed to the many small businesses which are active in commercial innovation. The Bill also allows further choice by permitting an applicant to convert a petty patent application into a standard patent application or vice versa. The Bill also provides that on the grant of the petty patent, the Patent Office file becomes available for public inspection. This is an important departure from the previous Patent Office practice and will enable interested parties to examine the correspondence between the Patent Office and the applicant. 
Another important feature of the Bill, and one which will be of considerable value to applicants for both standard and petty patents is the inclusion of a provision for the lodgment of all patent applications in the State capital cities. This will help many applicants for patents to avoid the delays and expense involved in the present requirement to lodge patent applications at the. Patent Office in Canberra. Applicants for trade marks and designs have been able to lodge applications in the State capitals for over 60 years. Inventors will now have the same rights. 
I will not go further into the procedural aspects of the petty patent system in the Bill. However, it is of considerable practical importance that the new system is capable of immediate use by applicants. In this regard it is important to emphasise that the operation of the new petty patent system will not involve radically new procedures. It will be based on existing expertise and practices in the Patent Office. Business should therefore be able to exploit the full benefits of the system as soon as it is introduced. 
I hope it is clear to honourable senators from this brief description that this measure is an extremely innovative development in the Australian patent system. The fundamental purpose of the new petty patent system is to encourage the commercial exploitation of inventions which now go largely unexploited or unprotected or both due to deficiencies in existing patent protection. In the past it has been too easily overlooked that the simple kind of inventions involved constitute a big proportion of patentable inventions. They encompass many areas, particularly in consumer-oriented products which collectively have considerable marketing potential. When the number of inventions involved and the extent of their potential use is considered it is clear that our failure in the past to provide adequate protection for such inventions seriously diminished the effectiveness of the patent system. A large part of the inventive effort of Australians has always been directed to such inventions. It follows that the patent system has not been utilising the product of that effort. 
An indication of the great contribution which petty patent protection may make is available from the experience of other countries. In West Germany 41,000 applications were lodged in 1976 for petty patents as against approximately 62,000 applications for ordinary patents. In Japan 179,000 applications for petty patents were lodged as against 161,000 applications for ordinary patents. The majority of the world's inventions are in these consumer oriented fields. Because the particular petty patent system of this Bill is unique and has no counterpart in other industrial property legislation in the world, the introduction of the system is to a large degree experimental. In view of its unique character, it is not possible to predict the exact effects which the system will achieve in practice, although its broad impact is clear enough. This factor is well understood and I assure honourable members of my intention that the system will be continuously monitored with a view to making such alterations as from time to time appear necessary to ensure the basic aim of assisting innovation and productivity in Australia is fulfilled. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
I do have some information on the matters which were raised by  Senator Townley.  My advice is that in 1978 there were 23 reported incidents suggesting less than the prescribed standards of separation between general aviation and airline aircraft. I note that my information is provided in terms of there being less than the prescribed standards of separation, which I take it is a departmental way of saying that there have been near misses, although the quality of those near misses may indeed vary and some of them may not be what we, as passengers, would regard as near misses. In any event there were 23 incidents between general aviation and normal commercial aircraft. In 1978 seven incidents were reported suggesting less than the prescribed standards of separation between civil aircraft and defence aircraft, and five of those reports involved general civil aviation aircraft. In relation to the last part of the honourable senator's question my advice is that within areas covered by radar, facilities exist for direct communication between the relevant civil control units and all military aircraft. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled Mainline Upgrading- Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Kalgoorlie-Perth Rail Link'. 

 - Senator Cavanagh indicated that he had not been able to convince even his own Caucus on this point. I made the point to him that it was not unusual in an appeal situation - 
This is a matter on which the Act has been consistent, as I understand it, for some time. The Commissioner does have certain discretions. He cannot exercise those discretions unreasonably because appeal provisions protect people against the unreasonable exercise of the discretion. Someone has to make the decision. The Act provides that the Commissioner makes the decision. The protection to the citizen is that the Commissioner is not permitted to make that decision unreasonably. 
The Commissioner is required to be satisfied, and the appeal would require him to show that he had reasonable grounds to make that decision. In that sense I do not believe that the appeal provision is peculiar or that it requires further examination. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply- Two speeches were made this evening on the matter of Eritrea. I have to confess that lam now better informed about that country than I was. I am not able to respond on behalf of the Government to the substance of the requests which were made by  Senator Missen  and  Senator Tate.  I undertake to convey the content of these speeches to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and seek some response from him on behalf of the Government. I refer now to  Senator Colston's  comments. I am sure that it will be a matter of concern to  Mr Peacock  if he has supplied an answer which is not accurate. I will certainly seek further information on that matter from  Mr Peacock.  As recently as today I had to follow up an answer which I gave to a question on notice last week. It was drawn to my attention by  Senator Robertson  that there was a discrepancy between information I had provided and information provided in the other chamber. I had to provide an explanation as to why that discrepancy occurred. I am sure that if  Senator Colston  consulted with his colleagues who have served in the Ministry they would explain to him that this sort of thing can occur with the best will in the world. The Government takes seriously its obligation to respond with accurate information to requests whether on notice or without notice. I will seek clarification as early as possible on the matter for  Senator Colston. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-On 22 February I provided an answer to a question on notice from  Senator McLaren  relating to expenses incurred by  Mr Harry  M. Miller. I think it was on the same day that in the House of Representatives some  figures were cited and some discrepancies noted. That matter was debated and, I trust, explained in the Senate last Thursday evening. A further statement has now been made in the House of Representatives by  Mr McLeay,  the Minister for Administrative Services. That statement repeats the explanation I gave last week with respect to the discrepancy. It goes on to deal with some other figures which will have to be brought to account. As this matter is of some interest in the Senate and as there are questions on notice from  Senator McLaren  which remain to be answered, I seek leave to incorporate in the Senate  Hansard  the material which appeared in the House of Representatives  Hansard  on 28 February. 
-That is right.  Senator McLaren  has seen a copy of this statement and I have discussed the matter with him. I understand that he is quite happy for it to be incorporated, and I think it sets the record straight. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

HARRY M. MILLER: TELEPHONE ACCOUNT 

 Mr McLeay; Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to correct certain cost figures that I gave to the House last Thursday 22 February in answer to a question. 

 Mr McLeay; Thank you. The figures were given in the course of an intervention I made on a question asked by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  about telephone accounts submitted by  Mr Harry  M. Miller. The figures I quoted were supplied by my Department. On subsequent checking the departmental accountants concluded that an amount of $702.93 in respect of telephone services and $ 1 73 .60 in respect of car hire ought more properly to be apportioned to the 1 977-78 period of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. Accordingly the figures were amended to that extent. The amended figures were included in the answer to Senate Question No. 1051 on 22 February put down in the Senate subsequent to my reference in the House. At the rime I gave the information to the House I had not been advised that the accounting amendments were to be made. 
The figures given in the reply to Senate Question No. 105 1 are for expenditures brought to account during the period of 1 July 1978-31 December 1978 in respect of  Mr Miller's  position as Special Adviser in relation to preparations for the 1988 Australian Bicentenary. They exclude the cost of facilities referred to in the October meeting of the Estimates Committee relating to the July meeting of the Bureau of International Expositions in Paris. 
I call to the attention of honourable members the fact that these are the amounts actually brought to account in the period. I am advised by my Department to expect some further payments relating to that period and subsequent periods which will have to be brought to account. This arises from the time lag in the presentation of accounts, particularly for telephone services. The telephone services in question refer to one in each of  Mr Miller's  office in Sydney, his private residence in Sydney and his country residence at Manilla.  His  company pays the accounts and seeks reimbursement from the Department. 
There is a number of questions on notice relating to the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation and the preparations for the 1988 Australian Bicentenary. I have called for full details in respect of these questions and will put down answers as soon as possible. 
The matter raised by  Senator Cavanagh  lies within the principal Act. I understand it is the principal Act which gives the right of appeal against the exercise of the Commissioner's discretion. It is my understanding that it is true, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said- I will need to check thisthat the appellate body, be it the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or a court, cannot simply substitute its opinion for the opinion of the Commissioner. The appeal provision provides a safeguard against a capricious exercise of the Commissioner's discretion. It is no more than that. That is in common with most appeal provisions which do not provide even in a normal court situation for the appeal court to simply substitute its view for the view of the judgment against which an appeal is made. An additional safeguard is that if the Commissioner is to exercise his discretion adversely to the person who is seeking protection. He is not permitted to do so without first giving that person a chance to be heard. An opportunity exists, as I understand it, for a person to argue his case before the Commissioner. 
My understanding is that there is also this other requirement on the Commissioner that he give the applicant a chance to be heard. This is contained in the principal Act. I am unable to be of any further assistance. I have noted the point which  Senator Cavanagh  has made. I will examine the matter further. I am quite prepared to do so and to write to  Senator Cavanagh  with the results of the examination. 
I have considered carefully the matter which was raised by  Senator Cavanagh  and I am satisfied that it causes no problem. Therefore, I propose to persist with the Bill as it stands. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I understand that the position with respect to wives of servicemen is as indicated by  Senator Bonner,  namely, that if they are not resident in Australia they are not entitled to be on the electoral roll and hence not able to vote. The position with respect to their husbands is that there is a specific exception with respect to servicemen overseas which enables them to vote. As far as being blatant discrimination of a sexist nature is concerned, to pick up  Senator Bonner's  terms, if he means by that that there was some intention to discriminate on a sexist basis, I do not agree with him because I suspect that it is simply an historical fact that at the time when the legislation was introduced it was not thought that wives of servicemen would be overseas with their husbands. I think that the matter is one that could properly be reviewed in light of the fact that the Government is reviewing the Electoral Act. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Administrative Services and seek some further response from him. 
-This matter is not directly within my portfolio responsibility, but I understand that the Park has to be declared by either the end of March or the end of April. I am not sure which it is. I will seek further information on the subject for the honourable senator and let him know. 
I understand that the facts are as indicated in the question asked by  Senator Kilgariff.  I am advised that at the moment the Northern Territory Government is having a study of transport needs undertaken. It is thought that that study will be completed by the end of this month. In the meantime, following the various discussions which have been held, the Australian National Line has agreed to continue the service; but I understand that that agreement was made simply to allow the study to be completed so that the Northern Territory Government would be in a position to assess the situation. 
The honourable senator raises matters which are of considerable importance and I answer him as follows: No, no, no, no and no. I will refer all the matters to the Minister whom I represent to see whether he can give the honourable senator a more helpful reply. 
by leave- The statement which follows is now also being presented by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in the House of Representatives. Where a first person singular pronoun is used it refers to  Mr Nixon. 
Some five months have now passed since I announced the Government's international civil aviation policy, and I think it is now timely to point out to the House the achievements that have been reached to this point. I do not intend to go over in detail the aims of the ICAP. These should now be well known to all senators. It should be sufficient to say that, in a nutshell, the policy sets out to combine the best features of charter and scheduled operations in the one air service. That policy is succeeding. In fact, its success in the five months of its operation has been outstanding. It is specifically this success that I want to bring to the attention of senators today. 
Implementation of the Policy 
Like all other countries of the world, Australia's ability to operate international scheduled air services depends on formal agreements reached on a bilateral basis with other countries. Australia has 27 such arrangements. To make the changes required to implement our new policy we therefore have to negotiate with our bilateral partners. On the Kangaroo route alone this involves negotiations with 13 other governments. Negotiations began in October 1978 to implement the ICAP. On the Australia-Europe routes, which in terms of ethnic ties are by far our most important, we have been able to reach agreement on our policy with the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I am confident that we will shortly be able to conclude a similar agreement with the Greek Government. Each of these arrangements has meant significant fare reductions. We have reached an interim agreement with the United States which has resulted in quite dramatic reductions in fares between Sydney and Melbourne and the American West Coast. 
Negotiations began last week on the important Australia-New Zealand route and it was agreed that Air New Zealand and Qantas will meet shortly to formulate low fares proposals for consideration by our two governments. Exchanges have also taken place between Australia and Canada on new low fares, and I am hopeful that in the near future we might reach an agreement which will allow early introduction of lower fares to Canada. Arrangements are currently under way to organise a new round of negotiations with the Dutch Government, and I hope that here too we will shortly reach formal agreement. 
Much publicity has been given to the position of negotiations with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations. I am the first to admit that discussions in this area have not, up to now, progressed quite as well as I had hoped. But I am still confident that agreement can be reached between Australia and the ASEAN nations, and I hope in the very near future. Before I go into detail as to the approaches that we have made to the ASEAN countries, let me put to rest- I hope once and for all- what seems to have become a popular misconception about our dealings with South East Asia; that is that the Department of Foreign Affairs has not been involved in the negotiations. That is simply not true. I say, most emphatically, that in all negotiations, with all of our bilateral partners, including negotiations with the ASEAN countries, Foreign Affairs officials have been fully involved. There has been no time when Foreign Affairs has not been involved. Furthermore, officials of my Department consult with Foreign Affairs officials on a daily basis. 
Negotiations began with the ASEAN countries at the same time as they did in Europe. It was the Government's aim that all countries with which we have bilateral arrangements would have been able to participate in low fare arrangements from 1 February 1979. In our discussions with the ASEAN countries we have offered to negotiate fares including stop-overs at a reasonable cost for those who wish to spend time in South East Asia. We have proposed low fares and tour basing fares to South East Asia and have offered to negotiate the levels of those fares. We are prepared to work out with the ASEAN countries the extent of capacity required to cope with the expected traffic demands and to provide some additional landing rights to ASEAN airlines. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and I have been collaborating closely in this matter and I am pleased that we appear to be getting close to arranging a significant round of discussions with the ASEAN countries later this month. I sincerely hope, and will be using my best endeavours, to ensure that that meeting clears away the difficulties which have so far prevented the reaching of agreement with our ASEAN neighbours and enabling them to participate in the benefits already flowing from ICAP. 
The ASEAN problem centres in the main on concern that their tourism from Australia will decline as a result of our new policy, and that their carriers will lose access to Australia-Pacific traffic. On the first point, we confidently consider that stop-over traffic in South East Asia will not diminish, providing the correct fare levels are struck. Obviously, setting the correct fare levels is something that must be sorted out at the negotiating table. But let me point out that while there have been expressions of concern on the part of some ASEAN countries that stop-over traffic will decline, it is a fact that 47 per cent of Australian stop-over traffic is destined for Asian regions, not for Europe. On the second point, as I have already mentioned, we have proposed new fares that will allow stop-overs in the ASEAN region, at levels which are lower than those currently applying. By this means, we believe, the access previously enjoyed will be retained. 
by leave- On behalf of  Senator Durack,  who has been called away from the chamber, I wish to make a statement relating to the work test and unemployment benefits. The statement is made on behalf of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  Where a first person singular pronoun is used, it refers to him. 
There is, I believe, genuine concern within the community to see that all those persons who cannot obtain employment through no fault of their own should receive unemployment benefit. This is strongly supported by the Government. There is also some feeling within the community that any people who are not making reasonable attempts to obtain work or who might be refusing work that is available and who are still receiving unemployment benefits should not be assisted at the expense of the general taxpayer. Against this background, the Government has decided that the certain administrative arrangements associated with the provision of unemployment benefits should be reviewed. 
Part VII of the Social Services Act sets out the legislative provisions relating to unemployment benefits. In particular, section 107(c) of the Social Services Act specifies among the qualifications for benefit that a person is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike; is capable of undertaking, and is willing to undertake, work which in the opinion of the Director-General of Social Services is suitable to be undertaken by that person; and has taken reasonable steps to obtain such work. The Commonwealth Employment Service acts as an agent for the Department of Social Security in reporting on whether suitable employment for a given individual is available. 
The procedures and guidelines which the Commonwealth Employment Service adopts as an agent of the Director-General is commonly referred to as the work test. Under the Act the determination of what is suitable work in terms of section 107(c)(ii) is properly a matter for him to determine. Clearly, however, they involve matters of administrative judgment. For instance, in administering these arrangements the present practice is to seek to make an offer of employment to a person in his usual occupation or of an equivalent kind. Work of an equivalent kind is work of a type or nature in which the person usually engages or in which the person's experience, qualifications and training could be used. Where, after a reasonable period, it has not been possible for a person to obtain employment in his usual occupation or work of an equivalent kind, the range of suitable jobs to which he may be referred is extended to all which are within the person's capacity and which are open to him even though they may involve a change in his status or wages. A period of six weeks after registration for employment has been regarded as a reasonable period. However, this period may be extended up to three months where it is considered that to do otherwise would be detrimental to the person finding employment in his usual occupation. 
The CES's present instructions provide that in extending the range of suitable jobs it is not envisaged that, as a general rule, registrants would move after a period of 6 to 12 weeks immediately from one end of the occupational scale to the other. Rather, there is a counselling process, over the full 12 weeks in some cases, in which the applicant is encouraged to consider and accept employment in selected occupations which are within his capacity and available to him, even though a change in status may be involved. It might be considered that such a provision for counselling over a period of up to three months- whilst still receiving unemployment benefits- with the object of advising an individual to seek employment which may involve a lower status than he has been trained for, or is accustomed to, is somewhat generous. It might be considered that a more appropriate and objective criterion would be to have regard only to his or her mental and physical health in applying the work test. From time to time Ministers for Social Security and Ministers responsible for the Commonwealth Employment Service have established working parties of officials from both departments to examine the administrative arrangements appropriate to these provisions of the Act. The Government has decided, having regard to current practice, that it would now be appropriate to establish such a group to review urgently these administrative provisions and report urgently to my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  and me. 
Furthermore, in reviewing the current arrangements, officers have been asked to include in their examinations the question of applying the work test to casual vacancies and arrangements in respect of referring people to jobs out of their district. We have also specifically requested that our attention be drawn to any persons or classes of persons who might be adversely affected by any variations in administrative arrangements. We have also asked them to advise on whether the current allocation of responsibilities between the respective departments with regard to the application and administration of the work test is the most appropriate arrangement. We have asked that this report be available in two weeks. When this report has been received it will be considered by the Government. 
At the same time as establishing this working party I have asked my officers to reaffirm current instructions relating to the application of the work test and ensure that it is strictly applied. I have said on other occasions that there are some hopeful signs showing up amongst the economic indicators being released. I say 'hopeful signs' because I do not wish to be accused of overstating the emerging signs of recovery, real as they are. In these circumstances, I think the community would wish to be satisfied that all those who are unemployed and genuinely seeking work should be properly protected by receiving unemployment benefits but that the administration of the application of the work test would be such that it would protect the taxpayer from abuses of the system. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has just mentioned, last week when we were debating this Bill in Committee he mentioned some difficulties with proposed section 49a. To some extent he explained the difficulties further when we were in debate on general business. He made reference then to the problem which faced Karen Christine Green in her case which came before the High Court of Australia. In particular he drew the Senate's attention in Committee to the use of the expression in Section 49a which reads: 
. the Commissioner shall consider the application and petty patent specification and, if he is satisfied that the application and petty patent specification comply with the requirements of this Act . . . 
It continues and then states that the Commissioner shall accept the application.  Senator Cavanagh  also drew the Senate's attention to the use of the words 'if he is satisfied' and 'the Commissioner is of the opinion' which appear in a number of the sub-sections. As I understood it, his concern was that notwithstanding that an appeal might be granted, the appeal tribunal would be able to look only at the question of satisfaction of the Commissioner. He felt that this was undesirable. 
On Thursday night I made a couple of responses. In one I suggested that in fact the position of the Commissioner on an appeal would be that the court would be looking at least at the reasonableness of the Commissioner' findings. Since last Thursday I have had time to seek advice on this matter and to further examine the principal Act. It appears to me that  Senator Cavanagh  's particular fears are not appropriate in this case. The advice that I have is that the appeal provisions of the Act make the appeal effectively a rehearing of the application. I refer the Senate to section 150 of the Act which replaces what was section 149, if honourable senators are examining their consolidated statutes. Section 150 of the Act, as amended in 1976, provides: 
Upon the hearing of an appeal from a decision or direction of the Commissioner, the prescribed court may - 
It then lists in sub-sections (a) to (g) all the things which may be done by the appeal court. It can call in the aid of an assessor; it can admit further evidence orally or upon affidavit or otherwise; it can permit examination and crossexamination of witnesses, including witnesses who give evidence orally or on affidavit or otherwise at the hearing before the Commissioner; and it can order an issue of fact be tried in such a manner as it directs; Perhaps the most important sub-section is sub-section (e) which says that the prescribed court may affirm, reverse or modify the decision or direction appealed from. The penultimate sub-sections says that the court may give such judgment, or make such order, has in all the circumstances it thinks fit, or refuse to make an order. Lastly, it may make an order as to costs. My reading of that is that that effectively amounts to a rehearing. So we are not in the sort of position that  Senator Cavanagh  was concerned that a citizen should not be, namely, an applicant's saying to a court: 'For all these reasons I should have had the grant', and the court's saying: 'That is bad luck for you because all we are interested in is the opinion of the Commissioner'. That situation does not apply. 
I asked my advisers to give me some judicial authority for the way that could be read and they referred me to a case called Bernard Joos' Application which is reported in 1946  Australian Law Journal Reports  at page 438. That judgment says in part: 
The Tribunal 's proper function is to say whether the Commissioner properly directing himself could reasonably hold that there was no reasonable doubt as to the invention being outside the Statute, that is to say that the application was plainly without possible justification. 
That really is close to the sort of test that I suggested last Thursday night. My officers also referred me to another case called Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corp. v. The Reynolds Metals Co., which is reported in the  Official Journal qf Patents, Trade Marks and Designs  of 7 May 1970 at page 1289. 1 refer to a judgment of the High Court by  Mr Justice  Kitto which is printed there and particularly to page 1291 of the  Journal.  It makes some references which I think will be of some assistance to the Senate and to  Senator Cavanagh.  It says, in part: 
The appeal is, of course, only an appeal in name. In truth it is an original proceeding, being the first judicial proceeding in the matter of the opposition. The right of appeal is given to an opponent . . . 
It goes on to refer to various points and then says: 
. indeed it appears from the general provision in s. 149 - 
That is the section which is now section 1 50:   . . that upon the hearing of an appeal the Appeal Tribunal may (inter alia) admit further evidence and give such judgment or make such order as it thinks fit in all the circumstances. 
So I think- certainly my advice is to this effectthat the problem that was concerning the honourable senator does not apply in this case. There remains, I suppose, the question posed to me by  Senator Cavanagh  this morning when he asked: 'If in fact we can substitute the court's opinion for the opinion of the Commissioner, why have those words in there at all?' I think that  Senator Cavanagh  agrees that somebody has to give an opinion on the matter to reach a decision. I have discussed the matter with my officers who point out to me that that is the general way in which this matter is approached through the whole Act. I think that it is explained on the basis that in these patent applications situations arise in which it is very often not possible for all the facts to be known. Essentially when one brings forward something, applies for a patent and says: 'This is something novel, something new', one is relying on the evidence one can find to bring forward; and the Commissioner, or whoever is called upon to determine whether patent protection should be given, is in a situation m which he simply has to rely on whatever evidence is available to him from his records, from the evidence which is brought forward and so on. Really it is appropriate to be quite explicit that protection is being granted on the basis of the satisfaction of the Commissioner. 
There is not a substantial problem in this for the person who might be otherwise injured by this action of the Commissioner, because I am advised that the granting of a patent is always open to challenge subsequently. In other words, a person gets patent protection but, if somebody can show subsequently that the product is not novel and should not have been given patent protection, the patent can be set aside. So we are not in the sort of position in which the proprietary rights of a citizen are being put under some sort of permanent threat which is secure from subsequent challenge. After as close as examination as I have been able to give the matter over the last day or so, I think that in the circumstances the form in which the Act now stands is quite appropriate and that there is no risk in it. 
I am subject to correction, but my understanding is that if a person thought that there was some challenge to a petty patent he would have access to a court on the ground that it was not new; he would have grounds for going to a court and the court would hear that case on its merits and on the facts brought before it. Therefore, in proposed section 49a (5), to which the honourable senator has just referred, an appealable situation does not arise. It is a matter of satisfaction to the parties if the amendment which has been requested is allowed. A conflict might arise in respect of proposed sub-section (6) and it is here where one might ask: What is the remedy? The remedy is an appeal under proposed sub-section (10). If an outside person felt that he was aggrieved by this application, he could, as I understand it, bring an action challenging the registration of the patent. I have received the assistance of further advice from the departmental officers. They have referred me to proposed sub-section 68B (3), where a person may be asserting under section 100 that the patent should not be extended. In that circumstance too, if the Commissioner makes a finding which is adverse to the applicant, the applicant has a right of appeal under sub-sections (11) and (12) of proposed section 68B. 
-On 26 September 1978  Senator Ryan  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, refers to an announcement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that  Mr Harold  Cottee is to be appointed Commissioner of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. I ask the Minister: Is this the same  Mr Cottee  who, as  Chairman  of Metro West Broadcasters, was twice the unsuccessful applicant for a commercial radio licence for Sydney's western suburbs last year? Is  Mr Cottee  's appointment to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission an attempt by the Government to avoid a second High Court injunction being lodged by  Mr Cottee  against the granting of this licence to another applicant. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My answer to the honourable senator's first part of the question is yes. As to her second part of the question the answer is no. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report on investigation and design prepared by the Joint Committee on Second Hobart Bridge. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The terms 'near collision' and 'near miss' are not precisely defined internationally. Reports of such occurrences, however, would be embraced in the air safety incident reporting system conducted by my Department. An air safety incident may simply be defined as an occurrence in which the safety of an aircraft has been or could have been compromised. It is the practice to interpret this definition fairly broadly and, apart from the legal requirement to report incidents, pilots and other operational personnel are encouraged by my Department to submit air safety incident reports concerning any circumstances affecting the operation of aircraft which the originator believes to be undesirable or hazardous. Judgment of what is undesirable or hazardous is, of  course,  subjective in many cases. Accordingly, records are maintained of air safety incident reports in which an infringement of prescribed separation standards has been reported to have occurred without differentiation between those occurrences in which aircraft were in close proximity and those in which the separation reduction was relatively minor. The following figures have been extracted from those records and refer to all incidents in respect of which it was reported that there was an infringement of separation standards: 
1974-100; 1975-75; 1976-84; 1977-65; 1978-136 
(Provisional). 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has recently decided that a maximum of three car rental operators will be authorised at Commonwealth airports. Two of these will be required to service all such airports while the third operator will be selected on an airport by airport basis. 
The Government is restricted in its ability to enforce any given level of competition but it is believed that the decision to authorise a third operator will lead to an increase in competition between operators and will be generally acceptable to both the travelling public and the car rental industry. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Transport has not ruled unserviceable any aircraft of either Trans Australia Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia since January 1978. 
-Before the honourable senator's question, I had not heard the suggestion that in some way the Commonwealth was implicated in the difficulties of the Wittenoom township. I will refer the facts and information as outlined by the honourable senator to the Minister responsible. 
I think honourable senators would be aware that under the Aborigi-nal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act Aboriginals claiming traditional ownership of land may lodge claims over vacant Crown land. That situation has applied since 1976. Honourable senators would probably also be aware that since 1974 there has been a freeze on the alienation of Crown land because of the potential for Aboriginal land claims. That freeze was continued by the newly-elected Northern Territory Government last year. It advised the Commonwealth Government in August that it proposed to hold the freeze for a further two years to permit the lodging of Aboriginal claims. 
The Northern Territory Government has some problems with respect to Aboriginal land in that it does not have the normal right of resumption. With respect to other private land, of course, the Northern Territory Government can, as can any State government, resume for public purposes. With respect to Aboriginal land that is not a power that we have given it in this legislation. It is probably because of that that the Northern Territory Government has taken some action, with respect both to present towns and to potential towns, to set aside land for development purposes. 
In December action was taken with respect to Darwin, Alice Springs, Katherine and Tennant Creek. Yesterday the Northern Territory Government advised a meeting at Borroloola that it proposed taking action with respect to islands of the  Sir Edward  Pellew group. This is a matter of considerable significance to any potential Aboriginal claimants because the land can be removed from the operation of the land rights Act by this action. 
When I heard about it I contacted the Northern Territory Government. I have been in touch with it again this morning and I am seeking to have some discussions with it on the subject. As I said, the Northern Territory Government has a genuine problem in the sense of having to provide for future development. The Aboriginal people who believe that they have a traditional claim to that land also have a serious problem. Quite clearly, those two matters have to be dealt with together. 
-I must say that it has come to my personal attention, as a sometime user of public telephones, that they seem very often to be out of order. I am not familiar, however, with the massive vandalisation of them which is apparently a feature of Sydney and which was referred to by the honourable senator. I will ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether any study has been made of using a stronger telephone along the lines mentioned by the honourable senator and I will let the honourable senator have a further reply. 

 - Senator Mulvihill raises a subject which would no doubt be of great concern to all the residents of our cities and to all those who have to dig holes in the pavements of those cities. I am advised by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that measures are taken to avoid the sort of risk which  Senator Mulvihill  has raised. The difficulty that he has raised has long been recognised within Telecom Australia and there are well established practices, including local emergency procedures, to advise other authorities of Telecom's intentions. Assistance is sought when necessary from these authorities to ensure the safety of the general public and Telecom staff and plant. 
Telecom has indicated that in each State liaison occurs at high level regarding the alignment of the plant of various authorities in the road reserve. In Sydney the Street Openings Conference has as some of its members the Water and Sewerage Board, the Australian Gas Light Co., councils, the power authorities, Telecom Australia and the Institution of Engineers. At a local level, close liaison exists between Telecom and the councils and other authorities. When Telecom plans new construction work, preliminary details of the project are sent to all authorities and councils with plant or responsibilities in the area. Comments are sought on the impact of the proposal on their plant. When a detailed design and financial estimate is prepared, the location of all other plant in the vicinity is ascertained and is shown on the project drawings. When approved, these drawings are sent to each authority and council. 
In addition, Telecom field supervisors have the responsibility of accurately locating the plant in the ground prior to any excavation work beginning. Where difficulties are encountered in locating this plant, assistance is sought from the appropriate authority. Specific instructions are laid down regarding the action to be taken if gas is detected during any of the Telecom's operations or if plant belonging to another authority is damaged during construction work. The danger of damaging high pressure gas pipelines is stressed to staff working in their vicinity. I trust that  Senator Mulvihill  will therefore be able to reassure his constituents that they are not in imminent danger. 
by leave- I wish to advise the Senate that the Commonwealth Government has approved the development of the Nabarlek uranium deposit by Queensland Mines Limited. I understand that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is making a similar statement in the House. In making this decision, the Government has taken full account of the recommendations made by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in relation to the final environmental impact statement submitted by Queensland Mines on 19 January 1979. 
I remind the Senate that the Government, when announcing on 25 August 1977 its decision to proceed with uranium mining at Ranger, indicated that further uranium mining projects in the Alligator Rivers region would only proceed when the Government was fully satisfied as to the acceptability of the impact of the development on the environment and the Aboriginal people, having regard for the region as a whole. There are still some legal and administrative requirements with which Queensland Mines will have to comply before actual work can proceed. The authority to develop the Nabarlek project will be granted under the Northern Territory Mining Act as a special mineral lease. 
The Government is satisfied that the legislative controls which we introduced in April 1978 regulating uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region, in conjunction with the environmental requirements which will be imposed on the company, together with the controls negotiated and agreed between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines Limited, will ensure that any adverse impact on the local Aboriginal population will be minimised. The Government is also satisfied that opportunities exist to allow the Aboriginal people to benefit from and participate in the proposed development. 
The legislative controls to which I have referred provide for the establishment of the Office of the Supervising Scientist, a co-ordinating committee for the Alligator Rivers Region and a research institute to maintain a close watch over the environment within the region. The Aboriginal people, through the Northern Land Council, are represented on the co-ordinating committee. In addition the Northern Land Council has been given standing in the Northern Territory Supreme Court to suit in relation to the enforcement of the environmental requirements controlling mining at Ranger. Similar provisions will apply to Nabarlek. 
The Northern Land Council on behalf of the traditional owners have negotiated arrangements with Queensland Mines Limited which in part provided for the control of movement of non-Aboriginal people to and within the project area, control of alcohol, the housing of nonAboriginal workers in Darwin when off-duty, the protection of sacred sites, instruction of nonAboriginal employees on aspects of Aboriginal culture, the formation of a liaison committee, training and employment of Aboriginal people and the establishment and promotion of local business enterprises by Aboriginals. The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies was commissioned last year by my predecessor to establish an on-going program to monitor the social impact of mining developments on the Aboriginal population within the Alligator Rivers Region. The Institute is in the process of establishing this program. 
The Nabarlek deposit contains some 9,000 tonnes of uranium oxide. Production of concentrates will be at a rate of about 1 ,080 tonnes a year over an 8 to 10 year period. Development of the mine, mill and treatment facilities is expected to take approximately 18 months. Work on the construction of the plant and development of the mine is expected to commence within the next two months. 
I take this opportunity to inform honourable senators of the position relating to the development of" some of the other uranium projects in Australia. Production of uranium oxide recommenced at Mary Kathleen in Queensland in 1976. Agreement has been reached with Peko and EZ for the development of the Ranger deposits. Production at Ranger is expected to begin in 1981-82. 
In relation to the Yeelirrie deposit in Western Australia, the Minister for Science and the 
Environment advised the Minister for Trade and Resources recently that there are no objections on environmental grounds to that project subject to satisfactory arrangements being made with the Western Australian Government. The announcement last week by the Premier of Western Australia on the Yeelirrie project is therefore welcome news that the Western Australian Government is satisfied with the arrangements. In his statement to parliament on 25 August 1977 the Minister for Trade and Resources said that the Commonwealth Government would take decisions on the development of projects such as Yeelirrie subject to satisfactory completion of the necessary environmental requirements. The Commonwealth Government is obviously now in a position to take such a decision. The Yeelirrie project would of course have to comply with other requirements laid down by the Government. These include foreign investment approval of the proposed equity arrangements and compliance with uranium marketing policies. 
As to the Jabiluka and Koonigarra deposits in the Alligator Rivers Region, the companies involved, Pancontinental Mining Limited and Noranda Australia Limited, have submitted draft environmental impact statements. Pancontinental and Noranda will also have to reach satisfactory arrangements with the Aboriginal people. 
The Government's decision on Nabarlek is a further step forward in our policy for the development of Australia's uranium resources. Honourable senators will have seen from the arrangements made in respect of Ranger and which are being made in respect of Nabarlek, that the Government is taking great care to strike a responsible balance. We want to see a balance between the economic development of our uranium resources and the effective protection of the environment. We also want to ensure that proper provision is made for the welfare and interests of Aboriginal people in the Alligator Rivers region and of all other people living in the region and working on the development projects. I present the following paper: 
Nabarlek Uranium Project- Ministerial Statement, 7 March 1979. and move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
As I have been assisted by  Senator Austin  Lewis to say, I am sure  Senator Primmer  can expect a reply. I regret that he has not had one to date. I will seek information from the Minister for Transport as to when he will be in a position to provide it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(a)922;(b)96. 
(a) 229; (b) 26. 
The above figures are at 3 1 January 1979. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists (Question No. 1211) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have not been out of Australia since 24 October 1 978. 
As honourable senators are aware, I made a statement in this chamber last night, in common with a statement made by the Minister for Trade and Resources in the other place. That statement confirmed that there are still some technical matters to be concluded. I refer the honourable senator to section 43 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act which indicates that there are limitations on my ability to approve an agreement. Until the statutory requirements have been met the agreement cannot be approved. 
I saw the headline in the  Australian  newspaper while reading over somebody's shoulder. I must confess that I did not read the body of the article to which the honourable senator has referred. The matter may be appropriately dealt with by the Commonwealth Minister in conjunction with his State colleagues at the meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers. I will refer it to  Mr Nixon  for investigation and reply. 
I think the honourable senator has asked me similar questions in the past. I have given a consistent answer to such questions. The Government's publicly stated position is that there should be program independence for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This complaint, as with any other complaint, will be referred to the Commission. I understand from  Mr Staley  that that is what he proposes to do in this case. He refers any complaint made to him to the Commission, which is the body in charge of the ABC. Further action, if any, is a matter between the Commission and  Mr Crozier. 
I must confess that I have not seen the reports to which the honourable senator refers. Obviously the matters he raises are of considerable importance in light of the importance of overseas trade to Australia. I will seek a response from  Mr Nixon  on the matters that the honourable senator has raised. 
It is good to hear  Senator Bishop  acknowledge the very considerable success that has been achieved by the Government and  Mr Nixon  in bringing about lower overseas air fares. Honourable senators will recall that a statement was put down in the Senate this week setting out the very considerable increase in traffic since the introduction of the low air fares. Unfortunately I cannot go beyond the answer I gave the honourable senator when he raised this matter previously. The latest information I have from  Mr Nixon  is that the question of add-on fares is still under negotiation. The Minister for Transport is anxious to achieve a result, but I cannot give a definite date. I will ask  Mr Nixon  whether it is possible to give a date and I will advise the honourable senator further. 
It has been my morning for saying that I have not seen Press reports. I have to confess that I have not seen the Press report referred to by  Senator Young.  The matters raised in his question are very significant factors which would need to be taken into account in making determinations of this sort. I note the qualified nature of the final part of the question that he asked in relation to whether, to the extent that the Government has influence in these matters, it will take these factors into account. I can only say that I will refer the various matters to the appropriate Minister, if he does have some influence in the placing of this plant. 
-Senator Archer raises some matters which are of great current importance. It is quite clear that the setting of fuel consumptions involving better fuel performance than can currently be obtained from vehicles would obviously reduce fuel consumption, but it does not follow from that that the Government believes it should move to introduce mandatory fuel standards. That has been attempted in the United States. I think honourable senators would be aware of the difficulties which have been experienced in that country with that scheme. 
The honourable senator is probably aware that the motor vehicle industry in Australia has proposed, through the Federal Chamber of Manufactures, a scheme under which the industry will commit itself to achieving a 1 5 per cent reduction in national average consumption by 1983 and a 20 per cent reduction by 1987. The Government's view on this approach, as announced by the Minister for Transport and the Minister for National Development, is that in principle the industry's voluntary fuel code is an approach preferred to government imposed regulation. The question whether the targets proposed by the industry are the right ones is still being considered. 
On the question whether fuel standards would reduce the need for emission control equipment, my advice is that there are substantial costs to the nation from vehicle emission controls and that such costs would be incurred with or without fuel standards. Recent estimates put the additional cost of these controls for 1978 at between $80m and $ 100m, which is a useful guide to the present cost. Obviously these amounts will increase as more emission controls are produced and sold. 
Finally, the research undertaken to improve engine efficiency is a normal and totally essential part of the work carried out by individual vehicle manufacturers. I am sure that all motor vehicle manufacturers as a matter of routine, particularly given our liquid fuel prospects, would continue to pay close attention to methods whereby fuel consumption can be improved. 
Perhaps I should start my response to  Senator Button  by indicating that I respond to this matter of urgency as the Minister assisting  Senator Carrick  who is the Minister for Education. One of the areas in which he has asked me to take a particular interest is that of student allowances. Therefore, it was appropriate that I should deal with this matter of urgency. I thank  Senator Button  for the fact that on a number of occasions during his speech he pointed out that he was not making points in a partisan fashion. He acknowledged that there were areas of real difficulty. I must echo that point. The fact is that, in the various arrangements which exist for students, problems and difficulties arise in establishing appropriate criteria. I assure  Senator Button  that the points he has made will be part of the continuous review which occurs in this area. 

 Senator Button quoted other sources to support some of the matters that he raised. That was the case particularly in respect of the last point he made. They are matters which can be put to study within the Department. I was minded to express some sympathy for  Senator Button  and to suggest that this must be a terribly difficult speech for him to make because I remember with, I suppose, some envy the speeches which I was able to make in opposition in which I pointed out that there were lots of admirable ways in which the Government could undertake further and expanded programs. Again I make that comment not meaning to make a crack at  Senator Button.  The fact is that one of the responsibilities of government is to shape a Budget and the fact is that this Government has laid down certain financial parameters within which all departments must work. They affect the Department of Education as much as any other. 
It is interesting to note, having made that comment, that in fact education and student allowances have faired well under this Government and I will be mentioning a little later in this speech some of the comparative figures of the last few years which show quite substantial adjustments to student allowances. Those adjustments, I think, indicate a very great interest on the part of the Government in the welfare of the student population. The various points made by  Senator Button  which I have said will be referred to the Department include some information which I understand is news to the Department. I am advised for example that the Melbourne survey to which he referred is not known to the Government. However, we are aware of the planned conference at Melbourne University later this month concerning the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and it is intended that the Department will be represented at that conference. It is expected, therefore, that we will have the benefit of what comes out of that conference. 

 Senator Button referred to the Williams Committee summary of TEAS and criticised what he saw as the Government's assumption that the TEAS allowance is intended as nothing more than a contribution towards the cost of education of a tertiary student. I did not gain from his speech a clear understanding whether he was asserting that the TEAS allowance should be set on some basis which provides for total living costs on some objectively assessed basis. I was left in some doubt as to precisely what he was saying but I do think that the level of the TEAS allowance does require some supplement to the income of students and that supplement will no doubt sometimes come from family sources and sometimes come from the student's own earning efforts. 
I think that is not quite true,  Senator Button.  In fact there are still many students who are able to get part time work to supplement their incomes. 
It is probably not as easy as it was in my day but it is still not impossible. In any event the position is that the TEAS allowance has been very substantially increased over the last few years and any criticisms which are made now could have been made equally strongly over any period in which it has been in existence. I am sure that  Senator Button  would concede that. 

 Senator Button went on to suggest that the TEAS allowance should be the equivalent of the dole and that it could be a matter of nice judgment for an individual whether to take the dole or to become a student. I think that he was making a judgment which would not be shared by the majority of the Australian people. The fact of the matter is that a student undertaking tertiary studies is gaining an advantage for himself or for herself which is likely to be of considerable assistance for the rest of that person's lifetime. Usually that person is doing so at considerable public expense. Since the abolition of fees the student has been receiving the advantage of quite costly education facilities at the expense of his fellow taxpayer, usually equipping himself to earn a higher income than those of his fellow citizens who have not had the same advantage. 
I still think that the point that I am making is quite valid. The difference between the two is that the brother who is receiving the tertiary education is getting what the Taxation Office has always regarded as a capital asset and what I think all studies show generally results in a substantial subsequent income advantage. For  Senator Button  to suggest that the student who is getting the benefit of expensive public facilities in an educational institution and getting a tertiary allowance is worse off than somebody who is unemployed and seeking employment I think shows a considerable lack of judgment. 
Well, I think that any student in that position who examined the facts would have to agree that he is in a rather better position than a person who is not able to gain the advantage of a tertiary education. The honourable senator referred also to the question of indexation and to the need for regular adjustment. Once again the record of this Government is quite clear, as I will go on to show. There have been substantial adjustments to the TEAS allowance and that is a matter on which I think the Government has no need to be defensive. On the evidence that is available, the point that was made also by  Senator Button  about the failure of Labor programs to change the socio-economic mix by the abolition of tertiary fees and by the introduction of more student allowances is a matter which ought to give cause for concern about throwing further resources into education as a means of levelling out social inequalities. I think that a great deal more work needs to be done to demonstrate that education does in fact have that effect before it can be argued that the allowance should be increased to serve that purpose. I note that  Senator Button  made no attempt to assert that that purpose is in fact being served. 
The question of the means test is an area in which I think  Senator Button's  comments do warrant examination as part of the normal examination review of the allowance system. But the Government does expect parents to continue to meet part of their parental responsibilities with respect to student children. One of the premises on which the whole system is based is that in the majority of cases parents will not regard children who are still students as being no longer their responsibility.  Senator Button  made the point that independence is not achieved until a person is 25 years of age whereas in fact independence can be established, for the purposes of the allowance on a number bases: Firstly, if a person is over 25 years of age; secondly, if a person is married or has been in a de facto relationship for two years or for only one year if there is a child; thirdly, if a person is a ward of a State or an orphan; or, fourthly, if a person has been in the work force for two years. Of course, a good number of people have been in the work force for two years long before they are 25 years of age. So the situation is not as it was presented by  Senator Button  and in fact it is open for people under the age of 25 to establish themselves as independent. 
With respect to spouse income I think that  Senator Button  overstated the positions. The spouse allowance is only $3 1.40 per week and is payable in respect of a wife who has no income. Again, the point he raised about the effect of interest does not square with the facts as I understand them. My understanding is that an amount of up to $300 may be gained from interest and investment before the allowance is affected and so, where there are simply small amounts of additional income involved, the problems which  Senator Button  raised do not in fact arise. 
This particular area is being reviewed and to date the review has disclosed that there are difficulties in the way of alternatives that might be considered but in any event that review is not yet complete. The main point which I think needs to be raised on behalf of the Government with respect to student allowances is that, during the period in which the Government has made a central plank of its approach to government the requirement that it must exercise economic restraint, the Government has substantially increased expenditure on student assistance schemes each year since 1976. The figures for overall expenditure demonstrate that. In 1975-76, total expenditure was $ 154.5m. In the following year, it was $ 186.8m. In 1977-78, it was $205m and, in 1978-79, it is estimated that the expenditure will amount to $228m. In the three years of this Government the total increase in expenditure was 2 1 per cent in the first year, 9.6 per cent in the second year and 1 1.4 per cent in the third year. It is true that there was no increase in TEAS allowances last year, apart from the transfer of the $5.25 family allowance from the parent to the student. But that has occurred before in the history of these allowances. It occurred under the Government of which  Senator Button  was a supporter. 
Indeed, in the 1975 Budget there were no increases for the following year. The present Government approved substantial increases in 1976, to apply in 1977. During a period in which the Government has concentrated on restraining expenditure it has maintained the open-ended nature of these schemes. Any student who qualifies can get an award, subject only to a means test. During that period there has been a considerable increase in the number of students which has of course contributed to the increase in cost. Since 1 976 the number of students receiving these allowances increased from 131,078 to 145,000. 
I would now simply select some of the key figures which indicate the considerable improvement which has been effected in these areas since the present Government took office. Looking at the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, which is of course in numerical terms the most substantial scheme we are considering, in the last year in which the allowances were set by the Labor Government, 1976, the living allowance for a student at home was $1,000. That has been increased under this Government to $1,523. In the last year set by Labor, in the 1976 educational year, the living away from home allowance was $1,600. Under this Government is has been increased to $2,348. That is a substantial increase. The amount provided for a spouse has been increased significantly. It has more than doubled. In 1976, the last year set by Labor, it was $ 1 5 a week. It is now $3 1 .40 a week. I think that indicates a very real concern on the part of the Government for the married student. It is a remarkably larger payment than was paid under Labor. I do not recall Labor senators making speeches in 1975 demanding increases from their Government or indeed complaining in 1 976. 
-There was. Of course the response came in the following year when we brought down our Budget in which substantial increases were awarded. The living allowance under the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme increased from $3,250 in 1976, the year in which the levels were set by Labor, to $4,200 in 1979. There has been an increase in the allowance for a spouse from $ 1 5 to $3 1 .40 a week. 

 - Senator Ryan is interjecting that that is made taxable. That is true. The allowances have been made taxable. But of course a student who is relying solely on this allowance will pay little or no tax. In fact, there will be no tax paid this year and very little in the future. It is only those students who have additional income who will be paying any substantial amount of tax. I do not believe that there is any justification for students who are in receipt of additional income being treated differently from other taxpayers. People earning the same income by the sweat of their brow, I believe, ought not to be taxed any more heavily than those students who are receiving a benefit by attending a tertiary institution. They are receiving this income at the expense of other taxpayers. The justice of that situation is quite straightforward. 
Allowances under the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme have been substantially increased. There has been an increase in the living at home allowance from $1,000 to $1,523 and an increase in the living away from home allowance from $1,600 to $2,348. All of these allowances have been substantially increased during the life of this Government. It can still be claimed, as claimed by  Senator Button,  that they provide less than a full living allowance for the student, but I would simply point out that that is a claim that could always have been made about these allowances since their inception, in some cases by the Labor Government. It seems to me that the principles set out by the Labor Government in the establishment of TEAS are principles which have virtually been continued unchanged by this Government. 
I have other figures which set out further increases in allowances. But I think the major figures are the ones which I have mentioned. I should perhaps mention, because it is of particular interest to myself, that the Aboriginal Study Grant Scheme is again one where there have been substantial increases since 1976. The living allowance under that scheme has gone from $32 a week to $47.25 a week, an increase of nearly 50 per cent. The other area of allowances which I think should be mentioned is the considerable increase in numbers over recent years. Of course, that is significant because it means there has been a considerable increase in the total cost of the schemes. Since 1974 when TEAS was instituted there were nearly 57,000 students benefiting. In 1978 88,719 students were benefiting. So over this period from 1974 to the current time the number of students availing themselves of schemes and gaining benefits from schemes has increased considerably. I think it might be a matter of great satisfaction to everybody that there are more students getting these benefits. Quite clearly it makes it more difficult to focus the benefits on those who are needy, which I think was one of the suggestions made by  Senator Button,  when allowances are so broadly available to such a large number of people. 
I think this matter has been brought a little inappropriately before the Senate as a matter of urgency, in the sense that it is a matter which obviously cannot be reviewed as a matter of urgency. It reminds me of the procedure we followed last year of bringing matters forward as matters of public importance. I do think that the state of educational allowances in Australia is a matter on which the Senate would generally agree. It is a matter which warrants debate and consideration in this chamber. I do not believe it has been established that we have here a problem of great urgency. We have a problem in which there are some discrepancies and we have some problems which need attention. The Government's undertaking in the Senate is that these matters will receive consideration by the Government. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Once. 
Departure Tax was paid in respect of this journey. 
I do have some notes on the Intelsat matter but I do not think they cover the precise areas that are of interest to the honourable senator. I will seek from the Minister the precise information that she wants. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Scheduled operations by turbo-jet engined aircraft are not permitted at Brisbane Airport between the hours of 1 1 pm and 6 am local time. 
Some operations were allowed within the curfew during the period stated. The Minister for Transport granted 26 dispensations for turbo-jet engined aircraft operations because a strike by transport workers severely disrupted airline services throughout the country for some days commencing on IS December 1978. After consideration of the effects of the strike on many hundreds of passengers, the following dispensations were granted for operations at Brisbane: 15 December- 5; 17 December- 1; 18 December- 2; 19 December-3; 20 December-3; 21 December-4; 22 December- 8. 
Apart from these dispensations no other turbo-jet engined aircraft operations occurred within the curfew during the period concerned. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The report in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  of 10 December quoted the Queensland Minister for Transport  (Mr Tomkins)  as saying that he had asked the Australian Transport Advisory Council to examine the matter of faults in steel-belted radial tyres. 
This was discussed at the most recent meeting of the Council in February and it was noted that the New South Wales Department of Motor Transport and the Commonwealth Office of Road Safety are now in the process of collecting any available information on the subject. Any action to be taken will depend on the outcome of those inquiries. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 

 - Senator Baume has asked four questions. The answer to the first question is yes, the present Minister for Administrative Services met with the executive of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association on 24 January 1979. When I was Minister for Administrative Services I met the executive on 22 November 1978 and addressed the annual general meeting of the Association on 27 October 1978. These meetings were in accord with the policy of consultation with the parties involved in the development of the Australian Federal Police, a policy which has been pursued by me, the present Minister and our other predecessors in office. 
As far as the second question is concerned, at the Association's meeting with me on 22 November 1978, the subjects discussed included the possible constitution of the Force, including the creation of a protective service component. The concept of this latter subject had evolved from consultative working groups in which the Association was represented. The views expressed by the Association at this meeting were subsequently taken into consideration during the Government's deliberations which led to the final decision to create the Australian Federal Police Force as announced on 13 December 1978. The present Minister met with the Association on 24 January 1979 and, I am advised, discussed with it broad matters relating to the development of the Australian Federal Police Force. The detailed organisational structure and allocation of functions of officers is not a matter for the legislation. No decisions have been made on these matters pending the appointment of the competent authority to make such decision, that is, the Commissioner of the new force. 
The broad principles proposed for the legislation were circulated on 24 January 1979 to all members of both police forces involved and passed to the two police associations. The associations agreed to furnish comments on these principles to enable them to be taken into account in the preparation of the legislation. 
The answer to the third question is yes. The fourth question asked what assurances were given. Commitments given have been in accord with the course of action being pursued by the Government in the framing of the legislation. Both the present Minister and I have assured both associations, firstly, that the jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members of both existing Federal police forces would not be at risk; secondly, that the associations would be given an opportunity to comment on the broad principles proposed for the draft legislation. I believe that these commitments have been and will continue to be honoured. 
-I suspect that  Senator Rae  has asked a very interesting question. It seems to have called forth a great deal of comment around the chamber. The Government's policy as it stands at present is for the continuation of a two-airline policy which is predicated on one privately owned and one publicly owned airline. This principle has been endorsed over a number of years by successive Liberal-Country Party governments. I know of no proposal that that should be changed. The recent review of domestic air transport certainly did not put forward that there ought be a change in that regard. I will ask the Minister for Transport on his return to Australia to give consideration to the number of matters which have been raised by  Senator Rae.  I will draw the Minister's attention to  Senator Rae's  comments about what would be consistent with our philosophy. 
I will refer the matter which has been raised by  Senator Sibraa  to the Minister for Administrative Services who is responsible for the conduct of the review of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which is at present still with the Commonwealth Electoral Office and has not yet come before the Government. 
I did have meetings with the three land councils and also with the Northern Territory Government in Darwin last week. Subsequent to those meetings there was a meeting of the executives of the land councils, the Chief Minister and his  deputy,  and me. We discussed a number of issues which have been bedevilling the land rights situation in the Northern Territory. There has been a problem over the registration of land titles. That problem revolves around the fact that the Commonwealth has included in the titles certain roads which the Northern Territory Government believes should be excluded. As a result of the Northern Territory Government's belief the titles have not been registered- a matter which has been of considerable concern to the land councils and to the traditional owners. Last Saturday agreement was reached as to a means of settling this dispute and a joint statement was issued on that agreement by the land councils, the Northern Territory Government and me. The basic agreement, which would still have to be confirmed by the land councils in proper meeting and so on subject to legal advice-although legal advisers were present at the meeting- would involve the titles being amended to exclude roads over which the public has a right of way, which is the exclusion presently provided for in the legislation. However, the legislation at the moment requires an exclusion in specific terms. The roads are to be actually specifically described if they are to be excluded from the titles. But if the Act is so amended and the titles are so amended it will mean that the titles can be registered and the parties could then deal with each other to try to settle the disagreements on the basis of which roads ought to be excluded. The legal positions of the land owners, the Northern Territory Government and the Commonwealth effectively will still be the same. I am hopeful that in that area the difficulties which have held us up will be dealt with. 
Other matters which were of concern and which were dealt with in the discussions included the extension of town sites in the Northern Territory. I was questioned on that in the Senate the week before last. I indicated that I was concerned because of the possible conflict between that and the land freeze which the Northern Territory Government had given to the Aboriginal people to enable them to proceed with claims on Crown land. The discussions resulted in agreement that there should be further discussions between the land councils and the Northern Territory Government with respect to the extension of those boundaries with a view to examining where there had been any interference with claims by traditional owners. In addition, I received an assurance from the Northern Territory Government that no further expansion of town sites are envisaged between now and the end of the land freeze. 
-That may be. The fact is that provided agreement can be reached on the towns which have already been dealt with there should be no further problem. 
The other major issue which I mention briefly is the claims of the Borroloola people. In that case the Northern Territory Government has put forward a very sensible framework for negotiations between itself, the Borroloola people and the Northern Land Council with a view to a common approach being made to Mt Isa Mines Ltd which will result in the requirements of all parties involved in that area- namely, the Borroloola people, Mt Isa Mines Ltd and the Northern Territory Government- being met. That is a matter on which the Government will have to see how that negotiations go. I am satisfied that there is a good basis for negotiations in that each of the parties has a negotiating position- something that another party wants- and there is no better way to go into a negotiation than that. As far as my own role is concerned with the Borroloola situation, I do not propose to take action on  Mr Justice  Toohey 's recommendation with respect to the Borroloola common until the parties have had a chance to hold those discussions because I do not wish to pre-empt any agreement which may be reached. Finally, I have agreed with the Borroloola people that I will examine the possibility of issuing a title to the islands which was recommended by  Mr Justice  Toohey. The Borroloola people would like to get that if they can. 
I wish to clarify a point I made in an answer I gave to a question asked by  Senator Kilgariff.  I indicated in my answer to that question that no further town site extensions were contemplated by the Northern Territory Government during the period of the land freeze. I should have pointed out that that undertaking is subject only to the discussions with the Borroloola people relating to the area in the  Sir Edward  Pellew group of islands and the nearby land where probably a town and port site will be created. What I said is subject to that proviso. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (4) I have met people from time to time who I understand were engaged in the business of public relations. If the honourable senator would be more specific I will be more specific in my reply. 
Ministerial Meetings with Business Consultants (Question No. 1199) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The standard practice when approaches are made by representatives of particular interest groups is for the officer concerned: 
to make a file note recording details of the interview, its outcome and matters requiring action; and 
as appropriate, to brief senior officers and/or Minister. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
25 vehicles. 
Department of Administrative Services- 13; Department of Business and Consumer Affairs- 1 1; Department of Defence- 1. 
They do not have any other identification to indicate they are a Commonwealth vehicle. The Commonwealth plates are secured in a concealed position within the vehicle. 
No charge is made for Queensland State registration. 
The use of State plates on Commonwealth vehicles is strictly controlled, and is confined to certain circumstances where there is a need for security and anonymity. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 10 December 1976 a Boeing 747 aircraft operated by Singapore Airlines was involved in an air safety incident at Melbourne Airport when it over-ran the runway before becoming airborne on take-off. The aircraft was not damaged and continued its planned flight to Singapore. Details of the incident are contained in Aviation Safety Digest 104/78, a publication which is produced by my Department for safety education purposes. 
On 8 December 1978, the pilot of an Ansett Boeing 727 aircraft turned his aircraft to the left when he observed an RAAF Hercules ahead at about the same level on a reciprocal heading. The pilot of the Hercules observed the Boeing and also turned to the left. The Boeing was en-route from Perth to Adelaide and was climbing to flight level 330. The Hercules was cruising at flight level 220 but the responsible air traffic controller erroneously believed it to be cruising at flight level 200 and planned separation between the two aircraft on this basis. 
On 12 October 1978 the pilot of a Trilander aircraft approaching Mackay turned to the right to avoid a Cessna 182 aircraft which he observed ahead at about the same altitude on a reciprocal heading. The Trilander had been given a clearance to descend by a trainee air traffic controller at Townsville who did not consult his supervisor prior to issuing the clearance. 
An air safety incident involving a Qantas and a Pan American Boeing 747 aircraft occurred some 260 kilometres east of Sydney Airport on 21 July 1978. Following an air traffic control co-ordination breakdown the Qantas aircraft was given a clearance to descend through the level occupied by the Panam aircraft. The crew of the Qantas aircraft observed the Panam aircraft, which was flying in the opposite direction, and did not act on the clearance until the two aircraft had passed. There was no loss of separation between the aircraft. 
On 25 February 1978 a TAA DC9 aircraft en route from Melbourne to Brisbane and a British Airways Boeing 747 aircraft en route from Sydney to Perth passed in the vicinity of Cowra, New South Wales with less than the required standard of vertical separation. The Boeing 747 had been cleared to climb through the level of the DC9 but its rate of climb proved to be less than anticipated by air traffic control. When it became apparent that separation would not exist, the Boeing 747 was requested to make an expeditious descent to a lower level. 
Aviation: 'Near Misses' (Question No. 1248) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An air safety incident has been reported to have occurred on 25 January 1979 when a TAA DC9 aircraft inbound to Townsville from Brisbane passed above an Army Kiowa' helicopter with less than prescribed standard vertical separation some 8 kilometres south of Townsville Airport. 
b) The incident is being investigated by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department and, as all air traffic in the Townsville area is controlled by RAAF air traffic control, the RAAF has been requested to investigate the ATC aspects of the incident. Investigation of the incident has not yet been completed. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
Painting of terminal buildings at country Government aerodromes in New South Wales was last undertaken as follows: 
Broken Hill- January 1978 
Cons Harbour-October 1977 
Tamworth- August 1978 
Wagga-April 1977 
Williamtown- March 1975. 
Because the remaining country aerodromes are mainly owned and maintained by local authorities, no complete records concerning painting of terminals at these aerodromes are maintained by the Commonwealth Department ofTransport. 
If the honourable senator has some particular location in mind perhaps relevant information could be obtained for him. 
Deaths on Drilling Rig (Question No. 1275) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is assumed that the question refers to an accident which occurred on board the self-propelled semi-submersible drilling rig  Ocean Endeavour  on 1 January 1979 in the course of on-site petroleum exploration. 
Under current administrative arrangements such matters do not come within the administrative responsibility of my Department and accordingly it has not had a formal role in the investigation of the accident which was carried out by State authorities. However shortly after the accident officers of the Department visited the rig for other purposes and were informed of the circumstances of the accident. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) At the end of February 1 979 the railhead had reached Chandler siding, 453 km north of Tarcoola. Earthwork, bridge and culvert construction has reached the Northern Territory border, 563 km north of Tarcoola. 
In February the Government approved acceleration of construction of the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs line, which is now expected to be completed in November 1980, almost a year ahead of schedule. 
The first commercial consignment of freight was carried on the line on 26 January 1977. Since then limited freight has been carried, often attached to construction trains. Specific freight statistics for the line have been compiled only since 25 June 1978. Previously the figures were included in statistics for Tarcoola. 
Goods and livestock carried between 25 June 1978 and 6 January 1979 was as follows: 
In response to  Senator Grimes'  second point, I refer the Senate to the proposed section 107VZ. Honourable senators will find in that section the provision: 
1 ) The presiding member in relation to a proceeding before the Tribunal may, at any time, request the Secretary- 
to forward to the Tribunal further documents in this custody relating to the proceeding; 
to obtain, and forward to the Tribunal, further documents relating to the proceeding; or 
to arrange for the making of any investigation, or any medical examination, that the presiding member thinks necessary with respect to the proceeding, and to forward to the Tribunal a report of that investigation or examination. 
So it is not a general provision permitting fresh evidence, but where the presiding member wishes to get further evidence, he can do so under that section. 

 - Senator Grimes is correct in those remarks. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I am unable to say whether the Department of Transport has received a copy of a study on the Airbus aircraft which was prepared by its manufacturer. I came across that report very recently. I certainly will refer it to the Department for its attention. The report, which is prepared by the maker of the aeroplane, indicates that a much lower cost per passenger mile can be obtained using widebodied jets. But I point out to the honourable senator that a number of other factors need to be taken into account. They include the fact that a high passenger pay load is required to get that result. 
-As the Leader of the Opposition has just pointed out to me, the aircraft are expensive. Also facilities would need to be provided at airports and other places before the aircraft could be used. The honourable senator has raised a matter which is of great interest to the travelling public in Western Australia. I will refer his various inquiries to the Minister and seek a more definitive response for him. 
I am not familiar with the detail of the matters which were raised by the honourable senator. I will have to inquire of  Mr McLeay  whether he intends making a statement of the sort which was mentioned by  Senator McClelland.  I noted with interest the comment which the honourable senator made about the reservation of 1988 and will have it checked. If it is true, it is nice to know that the Whitlam Government left one legacy behind it. 
I understand that the Australian National Railways Commission has not presented audited accounts for 1975-76 or for subsequent years. In a prepared reply to a question from  Senator Wriedt,  to which my attention has just been drawn, I said that the preparation of accounts by the Commission had been delayed because of the need to develop procedures for a new accounting structure to be applied to the amalgamated railways making up the Commission's railways. I would have to agree that the delay in receiving accounts is extremely long. I am not in a position to give the undertaking that a statement will be presented to the Parliament within two weeks but I will pass that request on to the Minister for Transport and seek an urgent reply for the honourable senator. 

 - Senator Chipp has asked me a series of questions about a report which was tabled in the House of Representatives yesterday. I must say that, although I have read the recommendations, I have not yet had a chance to read the whole of the report. It is true, as  Senator Chipp  suggested, that the report recommends, among other measures, involvement of Aboriginals in decisions affecting their health. That is a principle which has, in fact, been supported by the Government in the past and which it continues to support. I agree with  Senator Chipp  that the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service meets the criteria that he mentioned. It is an example of successful Aboriginal involvement in the delivery and planning of health services. I hope that all statements made during the recent problem that the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service has had with respect to financing have made it clear that the Government supports the Service in its work. 
I make it clear to the Senate, however, that there are difficulties when the Government is funding a multitude of organisations in health and other areas when those organisations go beyond the amount of funds which have been made available in any budget for their operation. In the field of health alone, there is a whole series of organisations. There are 10 Aboriginal medical services. There are three community health services. These are funded to the extent of about $4.8m a year. An amount of $ 12.6m is provided in State grants for health. A problem arises when those funds are committed to the organisations which are working in the field and no additional funds are budgeted within the financial year. 
Parliament shortly. The Victorian Aboriginal Health Service has on its own initiative and with the co-operation of my Department but very much under its own control revised its operations and taken action to ensure that it continues to deliver health services within the budgeted amount available to it. I have publicly congratulated the Service for that.  Senator Chipp  asked me what other measures I will take to improve the health of Aborigines in the light of the conclusions in the report. No one could be at all satisfied with the state of Aboriginal health in Australia. Ample statistics are available to show that Aboriginals suffer far more from disease than the general population. They have a shorter life expectancy, a higher rate of infant mortality and so on. 
I am sure that the figures are well known to honourable senators. Certainly the general picture will be well known. I can only draw attention to the fact that the Department actively pursues health programs both in conjunction with the States and through independent Aboriginal efforts. We are closely monitoring the effect of the independent medical services. Personally, I think that they are a very successful element in improving the delivery of health care to Aboriginals. I will study the recommendations of the House of Representatives Committee. I hope that through those recommendations we will see further advances in an area which needs advances. 
The honourable senator is quite correct. I recall the fact that he has asked questions about this matter before. I will ask my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  to expedite the answer he has requested. 
I thank the Opposition for its consideration of the Bill and for the points which  Senator Grimes  indicated he thought were matters which needed attention.  Senator Grimes  did go on to express some doubts about the effectiveness of the legislation and the difficulties which he thought might arise under it. He mentioned the difficulty which could arise when people wish to bring fresh evidence before the Repatriation Review Tribunal as they could under the existing system. I point out to the Senate that in assessment cases, although it is true there will be no medical examination as part of an assessment, it will be open to the Tribunal to require medical examination and the submitting of reports- the result of that examination. So, if in the view of the Tribunal some additional medical evidence is required, that can be brought forward without the matter going back for rehearing. The amendment, in the view of the Government, will provide a more satisfactory system of appeals but I should say that it is the Minister's intention to keep the legislation under review in the light of experience in its operation. If any changes, procedural or otherwise, are indicated in that review, the Government will be prepared to give consideration to them at the appropriate time. 

 Senator Grimes also queried the amount of consultations that have been made with veterans organisations. I understand that, in fact, there have been consultations going back to last October. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  has specifically asked me to say that after considering representations from  Sir Mervyn  Brogan, the  Chairman  of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council, he accepts the view that, wherever appropriate and practicable, the medical member of the Repatriation Review Tribunal in proceedings on assessment decisions should have specialist qualifications relevant to the incapacity of the applicant. This principle will therefore be applied in the appointment of medical practitioners to the Tribunal. The Government, as was implicit in  Senator Grimes'  remarks, does not accept the proposed amendment, and I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I suspect that  Senator Melzer  's constituents would be somewhat nonplussed at her describing herself as a second class citizen when she is picked up in a pleasant limousine which does not have a radio or sun visor. However, I will check with the Minister for Administrative Services to find out why this action has been taken and give her a reply. 

 - Senator Baume has previously asked me questions on this subject. Some of the concerns which he has expressed in the past appear to have been borne out by what has followed. I understand that the  President  of the Australian Union of Students has indicated that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd cannot continue to trade in a financially viable way. I am further advised by the airlines that the amount paid by AUS Student Travel to Qantas Airways 
Ltd is in the region of $54,000 and to TransAustralia Airlines about $30,000. The total present indebtedness of AUS Student Travel is estimated by Qantas to be about $930,000 and by TAA to be about $650,000. 
Bearing in mind the question which  Senator Sibraa  asked me about the investments of Ansett Airlines of Australia a few weeks ago, I suppose he would argue that one of the reasons for our very high air fares is losses of that sort are sustained by the two government owned airlines. I remind honourable senators opposite who are making loud caterwauling noises that that is the point that was put by their colleague,  Senator Sibraa,  the other day. 
In answer to the third part of  Senator Baume  's question, the original scheme of arrangement between AUS Student Travel and its creditor airlines was agreed by the airlines on the basis of their own commercial judgment- I hasten to say that it was not mine. The scheme is approved by the Supreme Court of Victoria. The decision by the airlines to alter their arrangements with AUS Student Travel, has, no doubt, also been taken as a result of commercial considerations. I understand, however, that the new arrangements provide for moneys to be paid to the creditor airlines from the profits of the new company. We can only hope that there will be profits. 
I would have thought that it was well known to honourable senators by now that the Government has a very clear policy in this area and that it is seeking to negotiate bilateral arrangements with the countries which fly into this country. With respect to KLM, I understand that there have been negotiations and that there are continuing exchanges on this matter, including exchanges at a diplomatic level. I think the same position applies with respect to the JAT airlines. What is quite clear is that where agreements have been concluded, as they have been with respect to the United Kingdom and the United States, there has been a vast benefit to the travelling public and a consequential great increase in the number of bookings. The Government is hopeful that it will achieve the same result in regard to the airlines to which the honourable senator has referred. 
Yesterday I was asked a question by  Senator Rae  about the failure of the Australian National Railways Commission to produce an annual report since 1974-75. 1 have received further information from the Minister for Transport. I am advised that because of the takeover of the South Australian and Tasmanian railways by the Australian National Railways Commission the Commission has not been able to finalise accounts and therefore no report has been produced. It will be appreciated that a number of complicated financial matters in this transaction have had to be resolved. However, these have been resolved and reports for 1975-76 and 1976-77 are with the Government Printer and are expected to be tabled in Parliament in early April. 
I present the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on the Alyawarra and Kaititja land claim and seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
The land claim to which this report refers is the third to be heard by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in accordance with the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 and the first which I have presented since my appointment as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Aboriginal Land Rights Act provides the means for Aboriginals to make traditional land claims to unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory. In considering a land claim, the Aboriginal Land Commissioner is required by the provisions of the Act to, among other things, establish the traditional Aboriginal owners, if any, of the land claimed, to assess the strength of their traditional attachment to the land and to report his findings to me. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  as Minister responsible for the Northern Territory, and the Northern Territory Chief Minister have also received copies of this report. The Chief Minister has advised me that the Northern Territory Government supports the Land Commissioner's recommendations and the tabling of the report. 
The Alyawarra report deals with an application lodged by the Central Land Council on behalf of three Aboriginal clans, two of the Alywarra linguistic group and one Kaititja linguistic group claiming traditional ownership to an area of 1,540 square kilometres of vacant Crown land east of the Stuart Highway, roughly halfway between Alice Springs and Tennant Creek. This land runs from the southern part of Davenport Ranges in the north to Dulcie Range in the south, and from Spring Range in the west to the Ooratippra Creek and Lucy Creek in the east. Hearings of the claim commenced on 14 August 1978 and concluded on 21 October 1978 with some 64 persons appearing as witnesses. Those parties which appeared before the Land Commissioner representing the range of interests likely to be affected by this claim were the Commonwealth of Australia, through my Department, the Northern Territory Government and the Northern Territory Cattle Producers Council. 
In the report, the Commissioner identifies those Aboriginals of the three clans who together comprise the 232 traditional owners of the land claimed. It concludes that there is a strong traditional attachment by the claimants to the land claimed and a desire to live on that country. The Commissioner gave consideration to the lack of substantial interest shown by Europeans in the claim area, the size and nature of the land and to the expressed wish of the claimants. The Land Commissioner recommended that the land claimed be granted to a land trust for the benefit of the traditional Aboriginal owners. I propose, therefore, in accordance with the Act to establish a land trust to hold title to the land for the benefit of Aboriginals entitled by Aboriginal tradition to the use and occupation of the land concerned. The granting of this area of land will provide a group of up to 1,000 Aboriginals which previously had no land of its own with title to its traditional lands. This grant of land recognises that special affinity which traditional Aboriginals have with their land and will provide an impetus for the establishment of Aboriginal communities with a discrete identity to enable them to live according to their desired way of life. In accordance with the undertaking given by my predecessor in the other place, I intend to table all future significant reports of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner for the information of the Senate. 
I will take up at a later date some of the points which have been raised by honourable senators. It is true, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, that I have yet to issue titles with respect to the land at Borroloola as has been recommended by  Mr Justice  Toohey. I draw the attention of the Senate to the statement which was made by the three Aboriginal land councils, the Northern Territory Chief Minister and me in Darwin on Saturday and which was published, I think, in Canberra on Monday. It deals with that point among other things. 
As far as Borroloola is concerned, I have been reluctant to take action with respect to the recommendation because negotiations have been proceeding between the Borroloola people, the Northern Territory Government and Mount Isa Mines Ltd for a period of months. Until those negotiations are completed, I do not wish to commit myself on the requests which have been made to me or on  Mr Justice  Toohey 's recommendation. As far as I am concerned- I spoke on the matter in response to a question asked by  Senator KilgarhTon  Tuesday- there is every sign that sensible negotiations are proceeding. I am hopeful that I will be able to take action on  Mr Justice  Toohey 's report in accordance with an agreement between the parties concerned with Borroloola which will be more satisfactory for them than the position that exists at the moment. I leave that matter for further discussion later. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the statement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made on 27 March 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
On behalf of  Senator Carrick,  I seek leave to move a motion to take note of the report of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the following paper tabled in the Senate on 6 March 1979: Report of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment, Volume 1, dated 14 February 1979. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Any employee who is classified as a member of general staff, having left the company and subsequently rejoined, must await the completion of twelve months accredited service prior to admission to the Qantas Airways Ltd, Staff Superannuation Plan. Aircrew are deemed to be members from the date of commencement of duties. 
(a), (b) and (c) No member of Qantas staff involved in the administration of the Staff Superannuation Plan can recall any exception being made to the above rule. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists (Question No. 1233) 
Members of the Opposition no doubt will be relieved to know that that is a question very much without notice and I am therefore unable to give a long, detailed and boring reply which would enable the Senate to have an answer to it. I am sure the Minister for Administrative Services could answer the honourable senator's question. I will pass on to him the various inquiries that the honourable senator has made. I might say that the subject matter of this question has been the exclusive preserve to date of  Senator Bishop.  The honourable senator may find that he has a demarcation dispute on his hands. 
I share the hope expressed by  Senator Bishop  that I might shortly be able to make the announcement that he seeks.  Senator Bishop  has asked a number of questions about this matter over a period of months. The Senate is aware of the great interest that has been shown by a number of State politicians and, indeed, by the travelling public in his own State and in Western Australia. I have no information beyond that which I gave to the Senate within the last two weeks: that discussions were proceeding and the Minister for Transport hoped there would be an early announcement. I shall check the position with him again and I hope to give a more definitive reply. 

 - Senator Missen has shown a very consistent interest in airconditioning in cars. He has been joined by  Senator Melzer,  who is now taking an interest in this area. I must say, in an attempt to be brief, that the answer to the first pan of the honourable senator's question is no, it is not true that 10 per cent of the Commonwealth's vehicles are airconditioned; the percentage is substantially smaller than that. We have more than 4,000 cars and station wagons. Only 157 of those are passenger cars which are air-conditioned. That is a very small proportion. It is true that those vehicles are reserved for Ministers and others who are termed 'VIPs'. What the definition of that term is I am not sure. When those vehicles are not required by Ministers they are used for ordinary pool work, including the son of work to which  Senator Missen  referred, namely, the transport of repatriation patients. I understand that four air-conditioned ambulances are available for repatriation patients. 
I am advised that if all the cars and station wagons in the Department's passenger fleet were to be purchased with air-conditioning the initial capital cost would be over $2m, recurring on relacement and there would be increased maintenance and fuel costs. I would have thought that  Senator Missen,  with his long interest in conservation and environment, would be interested in taking into account the additional fuel costs involved with air-conditioning. A problem also arises in that substantial fleets are operated by semi-government bodies. The commissions and so on have in excess of 20,000 vehicles in their fleets. So the total costs would be very substantial. 
In the context of last year's Budget deliberations the Government decided that it was unable to liberalise the existing policy on airconditioning. It is true that there are areas in which considerable stress is cause by heat. I would have thought that those areas were well away from Victoria. I know that in the past  Senator Missen  has referred to the problem in Queensland. The Government realises that the problem has to be kept under review, particularly in relation to those areas. 
I did not hear all of the question asked by  Senator Robertson.  From what I heard, I think that it is a question which I should refer to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for a detailed reply. I will do that and obtain a reply for the honourable senator as soon as possible. 
I am aware of the South Australian Government's proposal to legislate for land rights in that State. The proposed legislation is broadly in line with the legislation which was enacted by this Parliament in 1976. 1 am unable to give a response in any detail to the honourable senator about the degree of consultation on this matter between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government, but in the past three months that I have been Minister for Aboriginal Affairs it has not been a matter which has caused me concern or to seek any action. The reports which I have received on the legislation show that it very much follows the pattern which the Commonwealth Government put forward and enacted after it came to office and which, I think, had the broad bipartisan support of this Parliament. I will put on inquiry the detailed matters raised and let the honourable senator have some further information. 
I am advised by the Minister for Transport that there is no suggestion that air fares between Australia and Japan will not be reduced in due course. It is the Government's policy to seek lower fares on all routes between Australia and other countries. Tentative proposals for fare reductions were made to Japanese authorities last December as a basis for discussion between officials of both countries. It was subsequently agreed that that question would be pursued in the first instance in discussions between Qantas Airways Ltd and Japan Airlines. Two rounds of those talks have taken place and the results to date have been disappointing from the point of view of the Australian Government. It is hoped that the airlines will talk further in the near future and that more rapid progress will result. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
On the basis of the information available to me, the situation with regard to the funding of political parties practised by Governments in various parts of the world remains as given in answer to Question No. 1746 in the House of Representatives on 8 November 1977  (Hansard,  pages 3105-6). 
However, the following recent developments in the United Kingdom and the United States of America, as reported to me, may be of interest to the honourable senator 
United Kingdom- 
No legislative action has been taken on the Houghton Committee's recommendations  (Hansard,  page 3105, 8 November 1977) which included a proposal that annual grants be paid to political parties to assist them in carrying out their functions outside Parliament. In 1 975 Parliament approved a limited scheme to help pay for the parliamentary expenses of opposition parties. 
United States of America- 
In 1978 there were further unsuccessful attempts to extend public funding to congressional election campaigns  (Hansard,  page 3 105, 8 November 1977). At present public funding is limited to Presidential campaigns. The matter is expected to be raised again in 1979 but in so far as it relates to subsidies to candidates, rather than political parties, it is not strictly relevant to this question. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Assessment of the content of political advertising along the lines suggested by the honourable senator appears essentially to be a matter for the subjective judgment of the electorate- a judgment which, along with other relevant factors, is obviously taken into account at the polling booths. 
The question of the content of State electoral laws is one for State Governments. 
I do not have the details requested by the honourable senator. I will seek them from the Minister for Transport. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) There are no direct Ansett flights from Thursday Island to Cooktown and no direct fare. To travel by airline from Thursday Island to Cooktown one must change aircraft at Cairns and, on certain days, fly via Weipa. On most days it is necessary to overnight at Cairns. 
and (6) The published fare is $69.90 irrespective if travel is via Weipa. Where there is an overnight break of journey, sector fares will apply. 
There are no such flights, airline travel requires a change of aircraft at Cairns. 
5 ) Monday to Friday, there are no flights on other days. 
There is no difference in the fares between (3) and (6) if the passenger does not over-night at Cairns. If the passenger does over-night at Cairns sector fares will apply because the airline incurs the additional passenger handling costs. Question ( 1 ) is not applicable. 
I am not aware of any study of the nature that the honourable senator mentioned but I will check with  Mr Nixon.  Obviously the answer to the second part of the question depends on the answer to the first part. 
I feel the Senate will have a distinct sense of anti-climax following the answer I am able to give to the honourable senator's question. Notwithstanding the complaint about the amount of information provided, not enough information was given to enable me to answer the question. I assume that the point that  Senator Townley  was making was that with random security checks it should be possible for a terrorist, provided he did not care which flight he tackled, to get onto an aircraft at almost any time and destroy it. I suppose that is a valid observation about someone in that state of mind. I am not aware what action, if any, has been taken to institute security checks on all flights. As a frequent air traveller, I have rather mixed feelings about that prospect. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 

 -Since Senator Ryan asked her question of 20 March, I have received some further information from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. However, it does not really explain to me whether there is any truth in the suggestion by  Senator Ryan  that there has been illegality in the matters to which she referred. I am advised by the Minister that the arrangements for the conduct of trials for domestic television transmissions by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission between October 1978 and March 1979 using INTELSAT were conducted by a planning committee of senior officers from the Postal and Telecommunications Department, the ABC, the OTC and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The OTC provided capacity in the earth station at Moree for a signal up to the satellite and also to house the small trial receiving earth station. Also, OTC, in its normal signatory role on behalf of the Australian Government, made the necessary arrangements within INTELSAT for the provision of channel capacity on the satellite.  Mr President,  I have some further information but it does not go into the question of legality or illegality. As has been said often in this place, I think that questions requiring a legal opinion are out of order. I do not think that my opinion as to whether it is legal or otherwise would be permissible. 
-The question on 20 March does not appear to me to have been in those terms at all.  Senator Ryan  asked a quite different question. If she has a different question now I will refer that to the Minister and seek a further reply. 
-There have been no cutbacks in the expenditure on Aboriginal Affairs during the current financial year. The answer to  Senator Keeffe  's question, therefore, is no. There have been no cutbacks to date and there will be no further cutbacks during the current financial year. With respect to what allocations will be made during the next financial year, I think that the Treasurer has made a statement recently about the attitude that is being taken with respect to speculation about the Budget. I would propose to follow the same course. 
If the honourable senator is suggesting that there have been reductions in the amounts made available during the course of this year in those areas I would suggest that he should produce those figures. If he is suggesting in his question that there has been a reduction this financial year as against the previous financial year, I would again suggest that he produce those figures. 
The honourable senator raises a matter which I think is regarded by all honourable senators as important, namely, the problems of saving energy and using our energy efficiently. I am not sure what facilities the Minister for Transport has to make the inquiries that have been suggested, but I will certainly direct them to him and support the idea that if possible they should be made. I am not familiar with the reports which have been cited, but the honourable senator will know that this is a subject of hot discussion in our own city of Perth. With the changes to transport arrangements in Perth that are currently being made, I think that the Commonwealth Department would have some contribution to make in this area. 
I have not seen the reports of  Mr Justice  Muirhead 's comments but the extracts read to the Senate by the honourable senator make some sense. I think that there is stress in the Northern Territory because of the factors he mentioned. I will refer his question about the need for a special branch of the Commonwealth Police to the Minister for Administrative Services and seek a reply. 
During Question Time  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question about whether further cuts were going to be made during this financial year in various items in the Aboriginal affairs programs. In answer to that question I said that I thought that  Senator Keeffe  should produce the figures relevant to those matters. For the information of honourable senators, I very quickly cite some figures on the amounts provided for grants-in-aid in Aboriginal affairs under a series of categories for this financial year and the previous financial year. In the field of housing, this financial year the grants-in-aid totalled $16. 872m, as against $13. 738m last financial year. In health, $4.822m was provided this financial year, as against $3. 955m last financial year. In education, $2.950m was provided this financial year, as against $2. 765m last financial year. In employment, $6. 1 96m was provided this financial year, as against $5.6 15m last financial year. In welfare, $2.089m was provided this financial year, as against $ 1.735m last financial year. In recreation, $ 1.088m was provided this financial year, as against $0.785m last financial year. In legal aid, $4. 128m was provided this financial year, as against $3. 890m last financial year. 
I refer honourable senators also to the payments to or for the States under those same categories for the same periods, which show rises in all cases but two. In the field of housing, the payments rose from $10.13m last financial year to $ 11.131m this financial year. In health, they rose from $ 12.366m last financial year to $ 12.654m this financial year. In education, the payments totalled $6.398m last financial year and $6.255m this financial year. In employment the payments for last financial year totalled $1.1 67m and this financial year totalled $0.644m. In welfare, the payments rose from $ 1.308m last financial year to $ 1.346m this financial year. I think that in all cases it can be seen that  Senator Keeffe  's question was rather wide of the mark. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. As indicated in reply to Senate Question 1064  (Hansard,  page 72) the Commonwealth Government has not cut the funds provided to Aboriginal Legal Services. 
See answer to ( 1 ). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) At the present time the Department does not have the resources available to provide the information in the form sought. However specific information on a particular electorate could be furnished except for information on individual rentals and owners of premises which is regarded as confidential between the Commonwealth and the owner concerned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Approval in principle has been given for the Commonwealth Games shooting events to be held at Belmont Rifle Range, subject to further discussion between the Queensland Main Roads Department concerning relocations of certain assets on Commonwealth land to satisfy the State 's road widening requirements for Cleveland Road. 
Premises Rented or Leased by the Commonwealth  (Question No. 1390) 
-The Attorney-General and I are also a bit unsure as to whom this question should be directed. I suspect it is a matter which is within the competence of the Minister for Transport. I will send it to him and seek a reply. I am sure that he will send it on to the Minister for National Development if he thinks it is in that Minister's bailiwick. 
I was not aware that the police in New York are using bicycles as part of the energy conservation campaign. I am not aware whether my colleague has considered putting the policemen of the Australian Capital Territory on bicycles. I am not sure that the extension of the 'Life. Be in It.' campaign falls within the province of  Mr McLeay,  the Minister for Administrative Services. In fact, I think it is the responsibility of  Mr Groom.  I am sure that if  Mr Groom  and  Mr McLeay  can get together they will be able to give a very short, sharp answer to that question. 
I have not seen the article in the  Sun Herald  to which  Senator Baume  refers. It is not a newspaper which I customarily read. I am not aware also that the article has been passed around among school children. I suppose that if the article gives children the idea of how they can get access to marihuana and how they can use it, it is to be deplored, although I hesitate to make a judgment without having seen the article. It is often very difficult to draw the line between proper dissemination of information and the provision of information which is going to damage those who receive it. I am not aware of any attempt to link the publications of newspaper proprietors to their responsibilities under the Broadcasting and Television Act. I will refer that aspect of the matter and the question generally to my colleague,  Mr Staley,  for a more detailed comment for  Senator Baume. 
As I listened to  Senator Colston's  question, I felt the satisfaction of a shared misfortune. We have no daylight saving in Western Australia either. That causes great difficulties with respect to time changes and making telephone calls to the eastern States. The decision on when these lower cost or economy telephone calls can be made is geared very strongly to when telephone lines are being used. I think that practical considerations will dictate whether Telecom Australia will be able to go along with the proposition put by the honourable senator. I will ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to pass that inquiry on to Telecom to see whether some relief can be granted to Queensland subscribers. 
On Tuesday  Senator Robertson  asked me a question about Northern Territory radio programs. I undertook to seek a reply from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I now have an answer. I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The answer read as follows- 

NORTHERN TERRITORY RADIO PROGRAMS 
On 27 March  Senator Robertson  asked me a question without notice about Government plans for improved radio services in the Northern Territory. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that his recent visit to the Northern Territory enabled him to see at first hand the difficulties Territorians face over a range of communications facilities. 
He had informative discussions with Territory leaders, officials, Aboriginal communities and rural dwellers generally on these matters and is fully aware of the need for improvements in many areas. 
The Minister has mentioned that the need to improve the Territory radio service is clearly recognised. 
A new Northern Territory Inland HF (shortwave) facility was to be sited on Cox Peninsula along with the Radio Australia transmitters. However, plans were suspended following Cyclone Tracy. 
Subsequent research into the possibility of using an alternative site has confirmed that the only practical proposition is to utilise the Cox Peninsula site. Consequently, provision of the Inland Service hinges on restoration of the Radio Australia facilities. Initial funds for this latter project have been allocated in the current financial year to allow the restoration work to commence, but it is not possible at this stage to provide a definitive date for the completion of the rehabilitation work. The honourable senator will appreciate that the project is one of considerable magnitude. 
While it is not possible to indicate precisely when plans for introduction of the Inland Service will proceed, the Government has embarked this financial year upon a continuous three-year Capital Works Program for the extension of the national broadcasting and television services and funding for the Inland Service is tentatively scheduled at this stage for 1981-82. The plans for the Inland Service will be kept under active review to ensure the earliest possible commencement of the project. 
The honourable senator may be assured of the Minister's support for the provision of satisfactory radio reception for the people of the Northern Territory. 
The Senate has just been treated to a quite extraordinary speech by  Senator Ryan  in support of the motion which she has moved. She started out by saying that she was disgusted at the hypocrisy of the Government. I suggest to the Senate, and indeed to  Senator Ryan,  that any analysis of the speech which she has just made would almost invariably throw up the word 'hypocrisy' as being what is brought to mind. I sat here trying to think of what would be a comparable speech from any other person. I think that  Senator Ryan's  speech might be likened to a speech by Stalin complaining about the treatment by the British of the gypsies. The speech just seemed to me to be totally distorted and totally out of kilter with the facts. If there is anything that the Australian Labor Party Government taught this Government during the period from 1972 to 1975, it was that to establish a propaganda machine would be disastrous. The previous Government went a long way towards creating a propaganda machine. I think that the whole of Australia learned that that sort of activity achieves very little indeed. In fact, the disastrous performance of the Whitlam Government could not be disguised from the Australian public, no matter how many journalists it employed and how many departments it created. This Government is aware of the fact that the only way it will maintain its position with the Australian community and guarantee its re-election is to govern well. That happens to be the priority of this Government. 
There were many issues in  Senator Ryan's  speech with which one might join issue. We heard the extraordinary statement that the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, had promised a Public Service free from political interference.  Senator Ryan  referred to examples of the Public Service performing what she regarded as political tasks. She made some passing reference to the establishment of the Department of the Media under the Labor Government. She omitted to mention that the person who was appointed to head that Department came from  Mr Whitlam  's personal staff. How extraordinary! Can honourable senators not imagine the outrage in the honourable senator's voice if a member of the present Prime Minister's personal staff were appointed to head a department of the media? It would be regarded as an absolute disgrace. We heard  Senator Ryan  daring to criticise the present Government for politicising the Public Service when a member of  Mr Whitlam  's personal staff was appointed to head the Department of the Media. If  Senator Ryan  is disgusted at what she sees as the hypocrisy of the present Government, I find that I experience some disgust at what I see as the hypocrisy of the motion before us and of the speech which supported it. Any sort of measure can be adapted. 
I think that references were made in the honourable senator's speech to ministerial staff numbers. Was  Senator Ryan  seriously suggesting that there are more ministerial staff under the present Government than under the previous 
Government? I assume she was not because this is not the case. Yet she made some reference to the number of ministerial staff. What message was supposed to be drawn from that reference? There is no message to be drawn at all. If we look at the staff of the previous Government we find that all 27 Ministers of that Government had a Press secretary. When we look at the position under the present Government we find that there are seven Press secretary positions for Government Ministers and that not one Senate Minister has a Press secretary. Yet every Minister in the previous Government at public cost had a Press secretary. There is one Press secretary position for a Government Minister in the Senate.  Senator Carrick,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is entitled to a Press secretary but he has chosen at this stage not to fill it. That is the emphasis which this Government places on propaganda. As I have said, not one Government Minister in the Senate has a Press secretary even though the Leader of the Government in the Senate is entitled to appoint one to his staff. Compare that position with the 27 Press secretaries employed by the Whitlam Government. Look at the results that were achieved by employing 27 Press secretaries. This Government is perhaps showing a simple prudence as a result of lessons learned from the failures of the previous Government. 

 Senator Ryan made another extraordinary statement when she said that the Boeing 707 aircraft were bought to improve the image of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  If that is not self-evidently ridiculous nothing is. To suggest that the purchase of these planes could be aimed at building the Prime Minister's image is, in my view, so clearly nonsense that it deserves to be emphasised as being a significant point in  Senator Ryan's  speech. Clearly there has been public interest in the purchase of those aircraft. It is interesting that the Government Information Unit has put out a paper setting out the basic facts about that purchase. I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate that basic paper in Hansard. It is quite short, it is a factual sort of paper and it illustrates the sort of work performed by the unit about which the honourable senator complained. It also illustrates how far from the truth is her suggestion that these planes were purchased as something of an image building exercise for the Prime Minister. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Government Information Paper 27 March 1979 
Information Paper 
SPECIAL PURPOSE AIRCRAFT 
Why Australia Needs Them 
Australia cannot escape its international commitments. It is a major trading nation and a middle-sized power with vital interests to protect. 
Thus it is essential that Australia's national leaders should travel overseas when the need arises. The presence of our leaders is indispensable if we are to be successful in our efforts to have Australia's voice heard and our endeavours taken seriously in world counsels. 
Conferences of Commonwealth Heads of Government, meetings with other world leaders, the projection of Australia's viewpoint in international forums. 
These are examples of where the full weight and stature of a national leader are necessary. 
So once it is accepted that in this age of air-travel diplomacy, Australia 's leaders must be where they are needed, in the national interest, anywhere in the world, the immediate question is: 
How should a national leader travel overseas? 
Security experts have warned the Government that the risk of travel by a national leader in either commercial or privately chartered aircraft is unacceptably high. 
In a world which now knows the recklessness of international terrorism, a nation cannot fail to provide its leaders with a means of travel across the world in safety. 
Security advice to the Government was that it would be too late to make decisions on the acquisition of Special Purpose Aircraft after the sabotage or hi-jacking of a commercial aircraft which a national leader might be using with the consequent threat to as many as 300 lives. 
A report from  Sir Robert  Mark, former Chief of Scotland Yard, said: 'In a country so dependent on air travel as Australia, the use of VIP aircraft which subtracted attractive targets from the main stream of passengers has much to commendit as a counter-terrorist measure '. 
With increasing urgency the Government was advised that the practice of Australia's Prime Ministers travelling overseas on commercial aircraft was a grave risk not only to the Prime Minister but to the passengers who had to share the commercial flights. 
Each time a Head of Government flies by commercial aircraft he becomes a potential target of terrorist sabotage or hi-jacking. Thus, the most elaborate security arrangements have to be made. 
These security precautions are a serious inconvenience to other passengers. 
The advice on security was a paramount factor in the Government's decision to acquire Special Purpose Aircraft. 
The purchase of two Boeing 707s from Qantas was made for cogent reasons. 
There had been suggestions that it might be possible to charter aircraft from Qantas for overseas visits. But Qantas was in fact phasing out the last of its Boeing 707s which meant they would no longer be available should a charter be sought. Against this background it was decided to purchase two aircraft. 
A further major consideration was the use of Special Purpose Aircraft for the defence force. 
Although the decision was taken to purchase Boeing 707 aircraft primarily to satisfy the need for security on inter-continental flights by Government leaders the actual usage of the aircraft in this role will be small. 
The Boeing 707 aircraft are to be based at Richmondthe home' of the RAAF transport force. About 80 per cent of the hours flown by the aircraft are expected to be devoted to routine RAAF transport commitments. 
The Defence tasks will include 24 return flights a year to Butterworth in Malaysia. These flights, for the moving of personnel to and from the Australian base there, will replace all Defence force charters which have been costing $lm a year. The Boeing 707s also have the capacity to replace about one third of the present C-130 scheduled cargo courier flights to Butterworth. 
The aircraft will also be used to transport troops on overseas exercises- for example, the annual exercise in Canada and for other exercises in Britain, New Zealand and the United States. 
So there are these sound grounds for the Government's decision to purchase the Boeing 707s: the crucial need for security; a valuable defence asset. 
This fact must be stressed as well: 
The Government's decision was taken after the most exhaustive investigations by senior officials over many months. 
It was on the basis of that official and expert advice that the decision was made to buy the two aircraft. 
I would have thought that there has been an extraordinary lack of emphasis placed on propaganda by this Government. There has been an extraordinary preparedness to take on the difficult issues that face this country. The Government is prepared to keep talking about these matters. It does not divert people with beer and circuses and a plethora of Press secretaries which was the position under the previous Government. I can understand the Opposition's attitude of suspicion to anything that is done by this Government. The record of members of the Opposition is such that it would sow suspicion in their own minds. The Opposition's attitude to the media is clear. Senior Labor spokesmen are talking still of the need for a government newspaper. We have seen further reports during the last couple of months of senior Labor spokesmen saying that until we have a government newspaper in this country we will not get the story straight. What a marvellous concept from a party that is complaining about the Government being involved in propaganda. 
Members of the Opposition, many of whom want a government newspaper, are complaining about what this Government is doing in the field of communications and so-called propaganda. But the Opposition's record is quite clear. The Labor Government set up the Department of the Media. One of the honourable senators opposite, was, of course, the Minister for that department. 
Incidentally, the budget of that department was $ 17.5m a year. The Labor Government also established a liaison service which as  Senator Ryan  pointed out was abolished when this Government came to office. As I have said, every Minister of the Labor Government had a Press secretary. The Labor Government had 27 positions compared with our seven positions, only six of which have been filled, under this Government. Under Labor there was a boom in the public relations sections of every government department. Would honourable senators opposite deny that under the Labor Government the propaganda activities of departments were considerably expanded?  Mr Spigelman  was also appointed during this period. All of these things come together to show what arrant nonsense are this resolution and the speech which supported it. 
In 1975 the liaison service supported by the Whitlam Government cost $315,000 more than the cost of the Government Information Unit and the present public relations ministerial staff of the present Government. That one element of the Labor propaganda machine cost more in 1975 dollars than the Government's activities are costing at present in 1978 dollars. The Labor Government liaison service had a staff of 27 all over the country and it put out a great deal of propaganda. Those honourable senators who are familiar with rural papers would know that many people had trouble in keeping up with the avalanche of paper that was poured out by the previous Government in an attempt to cover up its defects. The 1975 election results showed how unsuccessful was that avalanche of paper. Ministerial Press secretaries in 1975 cost $380,000. Therefore the cost of Labor Press secretaries was way in excess of the figure for the present Government which in the last full calendar year was $185,000. 
A false comparison in numbers and money? Both show an enormous increase under Labor as compared with the position under the present Government. It is not only here in Canberra that we have learned who are the propaganda merchants in Australian politics.  Mr Wran  does not have a bad public image making organisation established in his Government. Of course, the whole field was pioneered in South Australia by Premier Dunstan who established a most sophisticated monitoring and Press system which became notorious right around Australia. Complaints by the Labor Party about this Government's propaganda activity border on being a sick joke. I accept the suspicious minds of members of the Opposition. They have demonstrated that they have an attitude towards media manipulation which is bad for democracy. This Government, in comparison with the Opposition, is sainted. One could not say that the matter before the Senate is a case of the pot calling the kettle black; it is a case of a very dirty old pot calling a shiny electric jug black. It is as bad as that. 
This Government is doing no more than make a genuine effort to keep the Australian people informed on what it is doing. The Government has an information unit which is very small in number and which is extremely modest by the very immodest standards established by the previous Government. There is only one professional journalist employed in the Government Information Unit although there is a place for a second. But at the moment there is only one professional journalist who is employed in Canberra. 
I will get on to the State officers. It is so typical of the Labor Party that a senator from Canberra who would have little understanding of the conditions in the States should lead the attack on the appointment of four people in the States outside of that golden triangle of New South Wales and Victoria. This is one of the reasons why the Labor Party holds no seats, or very few seats, in these outlying States. Four people have been appointed as State co-ordination officers in Western Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and South Australia. In fact only one has been appointed in South Australia. Those people will enable the information - 
Yes, and Tasmania. 
If the inference from the honourable senator's comment is that someone has left the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take a job in this organisation, I assume that is his professional choice and good for him. In any event, there is a real need, as anyone who comes from the outlying States would know, for some attention to be given to explaining what Canberra and the Federal Government are doing in those States. That is something which I believe needs attention. 
-I may be a Western Australian Minister,  Senator. It  will be at least three weeks in the current period before I am back in my home State. 
I am visiting the rest of Australia and working in Canberra. But the fact of the matter is that there is a very real need both for the Federal Government to have an outlet in those States and to be in a position to record what needs attention in the information field in those States. As a Western Australian I am delighted that the Government has taken the step that it has taken and I support it without embarrassment and in fact with considerable enthusiasm. I believe that the total cost of the Government Information Unit and the State co-ordination services will be $233,000 per year, which is well under the cost of more than $300,000 for the liaison service established by the Labor Party in 1 975. 
-The Department of the Media was a very modest effort! That cost only $17.5m! It barely warrants any mention at all! I do not know whether the Opposition is really serious in putting forward this motion. It appears to me to be a case of looking at an area where the Labor Party is itself extremely vulnerable on the record and of its thinking that perhaps if it makes a fuss about the present Government it will dull the public's recollection of the Labor Party's approach to propaganda in the media. On behalf of the Government I reject the motion which has been put forward by  Senator Ryan.  I ask the Senate to join me in that rejection. I move: 
That the question be now put.  (Quorum formed). 
Question put. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to a number of reports  by  the Australian Science and Technology Council which for the information of honourable senators I will be presenting. 
Leave granted. 
-I seek leave to incorporate the statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

In making this statement, I should, at the outset, remind honourable senators that an advisory committee on Science and Technology was set up in 1972 when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was Minister responsible for Education and Science. This action was taken by the Coalition Government in the light of experience and developments overseas. It followed discussions with leading industrialists, the Australian Academy of Science and senior Government scientists. The Committee was disbanded by the Labor Government in February 1973 and was not replaced until mid-1975, when an interim Australian Science and Technology Council was set up, pending the passage of legislation. 
On 9 February 1976, a small group of distinguished scientists and industrialists was formed to advise the Prime Minister on the role of a permanent Science and Technology Council. The Report from this group was presented in April 1976. After consideration of the Report it was announced that the interim ASTEC would be given the primary task of reporting on arrangements for a permanent Science and Technology Council. After consulting widely and considering the issues in detail, the interim ASTEC produced a report entitled 'Future Arrangements for an Australian Science and Technology Council'. The Government accepted this report, and announced the formation of the permanent ASTEC in Parliament on 19 April 1977. It was also announced then that ASTEC would be a statutory body. The legislation to establish it was passed by the Parliament last year. 
During its period of operation the interim ASTEC provided valuable advice to the Government on a wide range of matters, including: Australia's participation in the first world-wide series of experiments of a major international research program known as the global atmospheric research program; whether Australia should install facilities to receive and process information from Landsat, the United States of America's earth resources satellite and arrangements for surveys of our biological resources, particularly our unique and extensive flora and fauna. With regard to the global atmospheric research program, the Government accepted interim ASTEC's advice that funds be provided for Australia's participation in an international program to improve knowledge and understanding of the global circulation system. On the Landsat program, the Goverment 's decision to establish receiving and data processing facilities in Australia at an estimated cost of $4.2m was in line with interim ASTEC's advice. Following ASTEC's advice on biological resources the Minister for Science announced on 20 August 1978 that the Government had approved long-term arrangements for recording Australia 's flora and fauna. These included a new Advisory Committee for the Australian Biological resources study. Since the permanent ASTEC was established, its substantial commitment has been the preparation of the report 'Science and Technology in Australia 1977-78', on which I will have more to say shortly. 
As well as this major task, however, ASTEC has also been occupied in providing advice to the Government on a wide range of matters. Some of the more important include: The Report of the Independent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. ASTEC's comments on this major report assisted the Government to decide on the Report's recommendations, and on the future form and role of CSIRO. These comments were presented to the Parliament on 11 May 1978. ASTEC has also, at the Government's request, reported on energy research and development in Australia. We presented this report to Parliament on 4 April 1978. 
ASTEC's advice, in conjunction with that provided by the National Energy Advisory Committee, was instrumental in the establishment of the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council. In May 1978, the Government asked ASTEC to report on the role and level of activity, of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. ASTEC's report, containing detailed recommendations on how the BMR's resources should be deployed to best meet national goals, was tabled on 2 1 November 1978. ASTEC's recommendations on the BMR are to be considered by the Government shortly. In June 1978, the Government requested ASTEC to report on the direct funding of basic research. The Government is examining this report as a matter of urgency, and for the information of honourable senators, I present that report. Other activities undertaken by ASTEC are described in the Council's first Annual Report covering the period from its formation to 30 June 1978. 1 also present the Annual Report today for the information of honourable senators. 
I turn now to ASTEC's report on 'Science and Technology in Australia, 1977-78'. The Council has prepared its report in two volumes. Volume 1 contains the Council's views and recommendations. Volume 2 comprises a series of chapters, each describing the present situation in a particular area of activity. Because of the many and complex issues involved, this task has been a demanding one and has taken some time to complete. For this reason, Volume 1 was produced in two pans. Volume lA was tabled on 26 September 1 978. It contains ASTEC 's views and recommendations on the organisation of Science and Technology in Australia and on the specific areas of fundamental research, industrial research and development, the marine sciences and technologies and health. Volume IB contains ASTEC's views and recommendations on agriculture and forestry, mineral resources, manufacturing industry, services and environment. For the information of honourable senators, I present Volume IB and Volume 2 and a summary and recommendations. The Government, for its part, has now completed its consideration of the recommendations of Volume 1A. I take this opportunity to announce the Government's decisions with respect to those recommendations. 
Volume lA of the ASTEC Report is a valuable survey, which has assisted the Government in its consideration of Science and Technology programs. In this Volume, ASTEC has identified four main areas of concern in Australian science and technology: Industrial research and development; marine sciences and technologies; fundamental research; and health. One of the economic consequences of the increased inflation of the 1972-75 period was a serious downturn in manufacturing industry in Australia. This resulted in a reduced level of research and development being carried out in industry. ASTEC's examination of industrial research and development concluded that increased Government incentives for industrial research and development were warranted. The Council placed such importance on this matter that the  Chairman,  Professor G. M. Badger, wrote to the Prime Minister prior to the last Budget requesting that the Government give urgent consideration to the Council's recommendation that the level of Government support for industrial research and development be increased. 
The Government took action in the Budget in accord with the broad thrust of this request. A joint announcement by the Ministers for Industry and Commerce and Productivity, following last year's Budget gave details of increases in funding for industrial research and development. The extra funds are available under the Industrial 
Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 and amendments were introduced during the last sittings of Parliament to improve the Act's effectiveness. In 1978-79, an estimated $24m has been provided for industrial research and development. Compared with expenditure of $13. 7m in 1977-78, this is an increase of 73 per cent. The increased allocation is financing an expanded programme of commencement and project grants under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Scheme. As well, it is supporting major industrial research and development projects, which are in the public interest, with potential national and international application. The Government is also aiding the implementation of a number of pilot programs in the areas of technology transfer and the commercial exploitation of Australian inventions. Manufacturing industry, the mining industry, and the rural industries generate much of Australia 's wealth. The productivity of these industries is critical to our prosperity and inprovements in technology by innovation and by technology transfer are of great importance to our domestic and international competitiveness, and the level of employment. 
In this regard, I would draw honourable senators' attention to the Crawford Report's broad endorsement of ASTEC's views on the importance of stimulating innovation in Australian industry. I am sure that the Senate is aware that the Australian invention, InterScan, has been accepted as the international aircraft landing system of the future. This great development confirms that Australia is carrying out research at the forefront of science and technology and is able to apply that research to practical uses. However, our economic future will depend also on our success in devising numerous innovations perhaps of a less dramatic nature, but in the aggregate of undoubted importance. Our success with large-scale mining operations in remote regions, for example, has only been possible following development of our railway systems to a stage where as a result of technological advances in the design of rails and bearings, they are able to support the huge trains and heavily-laden trucks which carry minerals from the mines to the coast. 
Another important innovation is the development by CSIRO of a 'Sirotem ', an instrument to detect mineralisation buried under thick overburden. This is an important development for mineral exploration in tropical and arid environments. Sirotherm, a process for the desalination of water, jointly developed by CSIRO and ICI Australia Ltd, is currently being examined by the 
Department of Productivity with a view to possible funding under the public interest section of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Scheme. 
I particularly draw to honourable senators' notice three ASTEC proposals aimed at building Australian industry's technological base and stimulating innovation. The first suggests that governments and agencies should give greater attention to the placement of research and development contracts with industry. The council believes that 'a closer and more fruitful association between industry and Government laboratories must be beneficial, and that the placement of research and development contracts in industry will substantially assist this association'. The Government recognising that this proposal could enable industry to develop and maintain improved research and development capacity is attracted to this concept, and believes that further examination is required. We have requested ASTEC to undertake a more detailed examination of the proposal in consultation with the appropriate Government departments and agencies, so that the cost-effectiveness and longer-term possibilities are analysed in some detail. 
The second proposal relates to special measures to encourage technological efficiency and innovation in small companies by the promotion and formation of research associations. This broad policy issue is currently being considered by the Government as a result of its decisions on the CSIRO Inquiry Report. ASTEC's contributions will assist this process. The third proposal relates to institutional arrangements for encouraging the development of research findings. The Crawford Committee has also recommended that a body to promote innovation be established. The Government is examining the operating experience of research development corporations such as the (UK) National Research Development Corporation, to see whether this mechanism would be suitable to Australian conditions. ASTEC has also recommended 'that greater attention be paid to the marine sciences and technologies in Australia'. The Government accepts this recommendation. It recognises the great importance of the marine sciences and technologies in our future well-being. 
I remind the Senate that the Australian Institute of Marine Science was established under a previous Coalition Government when the Prime Minister was Minister responsible for Education and Science. The importance of marine science in this regard has increased in recent years; particularly in relation to off-shore energy resources and the utilisation and management of resources in our expanded off-shore economic zone. The Government has accepted ASTEC's suggestion that an Australian Marine Sciences and Technologies Advisory Committee- AMSTAC- be established. The Committee will investigate and report on the co-ordination of research and development and the establishment of priorities in this area. I am pleased to advise the Senate that this Committee will be chaired by Professor A. J. Birch, a distinguished scientist whose wide research experience will be invaluable in this important task. 
Because of the need to avoid the proliferation of science advisory committees outside the purview of ASTEC, AMSTAC will be established as a standing committee of that Council. It will work closely with relevant Ministers, particularly the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster).  As a general rule, advisory committees such as AMSTAC will be established as standing committees of ASTEC, particularly in areas of science and technology where a number of ministerial portfolios are involved. ASTEC has also recommended an increase in funds for projects of merit and promise in health research and basic research. In the current year, pending consideration of the ASTEC Report on Basic Research, funding for the Australian Research Grants Committee and the National Health and Medical Research Council, has been maintained at the same levels, in real terms, as in 1977-78. Other decisions taken by the Government with respect to the ASTEC Report, relate to the rationalisation of funding procedures particularly in regard to the use of scientific equipment and facilities through greater emphasis on the centralised use of equipment, and the need for co-ordination mechanisms for special requests for new equipment to avoid overlap and duplication. 
I take this opportunity to announce details of the membership of the statutory ASTEC. As honourable senators will be aware, the Australian Science and Technology Act of 1978 received Royal Assent on 22 June 1978 and it was proclaimed on 28 February 1979. The members of the Statutory Council are: Professor G. M. Badger, A.O., F.A.A., F.T.S.,  Chairman,  Research Professor of Organic Chemistry, the University of Adelaide; Professor  Sir Rutherford  Robertson, C.M.G., F.A.A., F.R.S.,  Deputy Chairman,  Formerly Director, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University; Professor B. D. O. Anderson, F.A.A., 
Professor of Electrical Engineering, University of Newcastle;  Sir Samuel  Burston, O.B.E.,  President,  Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council;  Dr L.  W. Davies A.O., F.T.S., F.A.A., Chief Scientist, Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd;  Mr A.  W. Hamer, F.T.S.,  Deputy Chairman,  ICI Australia Ltd; Professor B. E. Hobbs, Professor of Geology, Monash University;  Dr P.  S. Lang, Member, Commonwealth Council for Rural Research and Extension;  Mr B.  T. Loton, Chief General Manager, The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; Professor  Sir Gustav  Nossal, C.B.E., F.A.A., Director, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;  Sir Arvi  Parvo, F.T.S.,  Chairman  and Managing Director, Western Mining Corporation Ltd;  Mr L.  G. Peres, Reader in Political Science, The University of Melbourne;  Mr K.  C. Stone, Secretary, Victorian Trades Hall Council; Professor R. Street, F.A.A., Vice Chancellor, The University of Western Australia; and  Mr J.  G. Wilson, C.B.E.,  Chairman,  Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited. 
The Government is pleased to have so distinguished a body to provide advice on matters of national importance in the broad areas encompassed by ASTEC's charter. I should like to commend the work which has been carried out by ASTEC over the last two years, and thank the Members of the Council for their time and effort. In particular, I should like to thank the retiring member,  Sir Louis  Matheson, for his important and valuable contributions to the Council's activities.  Sir Louis  served as  Chairman  of the interim Council, and when the permanent ASTEC was established, readily agreed to the Government's request that he serve for a further period as a member of the Council. I should also like to mention the valuable work of the present  Chairman,  Professor Geoffrey Badger. Professor Badger has held this position since early 1977 and during this period, has ably guided the Council in its deliberations. The Government is most grateful to him for his leadership of this important advisory body, and I am glad to be able to inform the Senate that he has accepted appointment as  Chairman  for a term of five years. Professor  Sir Rutherford  Robertson has been  Deputy Chairman  of the Council since its establishment early in 1977.  His  wise counsel has also greatly contributed to the success of ASTEC, and the Government is very pleased that  Sir Rutherford  has agreed to continue as  Deputy Chairman. 
In view of the importance of the primary industry sector in Australia, the Government has thought it best to increase the expertise of the 
Council in this field. Accordingly,  Dr Patrick  Lang has been appointed as the new member.  Dr Lang  is a member of the Committee Council for Rural Research and Extension, and also a member of the Universities' Council of the Tertiary Education Commission. In conclusion I should like to express again the Government's appreciation of the work being done by ASTEC. The role of the Australian Science and Technology Council is a particularly challenging one at this time, and will become more so in the years ahead with the increasing importance of the role of science and technology, and programs of research and development which will lead to improved productivity and in turn to a stronger international trade, through better products and more, efficient techniques. But reserarch and development can do more. It can be the key to new industries and employment opportunities, create new vistas for society, and improve production in all industrial sectors. ASTEC will be an important aid to the Government in developing strategies to achieve these goals. I present the reports of the Australian Science and Technology Council. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to defence policy and to move a motion that the Senate take note of the statement. 
Leave granted. 
I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

I said last October that, in the present fiscal situation, we could no longer proceed with all the objectives in the 1976 Defence White Paper at the pace we then contemplated. I pointed nevertheless to: The provision in 1978-79 for a defence outlay larger in real terms than any achieved since the last Budget of the McMahon Government; and a continuation of the work that has rescued our defence capabilities from the downwards slope on which they were launched in 1973. The Government has lately reviewed the content of the Defence program, and given the Defence Administration directions within which it is to plan the spending program in the remainder of this year and the years ahead. 
In the continuing war on inflation by the Government I have to accept continuing restraint. Nevertheless the new program provides for a continuing growth in real terms in defence expenditure. Announcement of figures for 1979-80 must of course await the budget. Nevertheless real growth will not be less than 2 per cent. The program calls as well for some change in emphasis. The maintenance and improvement of the operational effectiveness of the defence force in the years ahead is to be the first aim. Consequently, the growth in spending on capital assets will continue, and it will be in equipment rather than buildings, more, however, will be spent than in the recent past on maintenance spares and other stores needed to relieve some restraints on service training activities. Growth in manpower will continue to be held down. Growth in other assets will be stimulated. Discussion about the capacities Australia may need in the future, the threat contingencies we supposedly might not be able to meet, and the supposed deficiencies today, must never overlook that we already possess substantial defence assets. There is a perception developing in some sections of our community that we lack significant military capability, This is completely false. It is far from the reality, as I propose to explain. 
As the House is aware, the Government has commissioned an intelligence assessment following recent unsettling events in the Middle East and in Indo-China and its frontier with China and elsewhere. There will be a subsequent strategic review to discern whether change in our defence capabilities needs to be planned for the future. In the meantime there are some fundamental propositions which deserve consideration. They suggest seven requirements that our defence effort must satisfy: 
We must sustain a defence force which supports our diplomacy so that both in combination effectively deter interference with Australia's sovereignty by the military forces of a foreign power. 
We must sustain a defence force containing men with the right skills, possessing the right weapons, that could train and develop an expanded force as and when a major threat to Australia begins to emerge. 
We need a force that can undertake surveillance and patrol duties, provide assistance to the civil community as and when needed and respond to limited military tasks and requirements that can arise at short notice. 
We need a defence force that will protect our supply lines in the maritime areas near to Australia's principal ports; or that could make some contribution to assisting allies protect our more remote sea routes should there be no significant local threats. 
We need a defence force with capabilities affording the Government of the day the option of giving defence help to regional friends with whom we have common security interests, should they wish this- whether this be the south-west Pacific, Papua New Guinea, or other countries to our immediate north. 
Subject to our giving priority to capabilities needed for operations in our own environment, our defence force should also provide the Government of the day with the practical option of contributing to Pacific defence in accordance with the ANZUS Treaty. 
It should also enable governments to contribute to United Nations international peace-keeping. 
I turn to the characteristics of such a force. The size and shape and equipment of our Defence Force should be assessed in Australia's own geopolitical environment- and this for three reasons: 
Like every country Australia must sustain its military standing in its geographical neighbourhood through which attacks upon its territory could be launched. 
Australia's isolation from other continents, and our physical environment of sea and air space and archipelagic territories, carry a number of pointers for our defence capabilities; as do the physical characteristics of our own continent. 
It is in respect of armed threats within our own geographic environment that our allies could be expected to look to Australia to be reasonably self-reliant, and to make a maximum effort to look after its own security. 
Therefore the first test is the strength of the force vis-a-vis the countries that are within striking distance of Australia. This should be assessed realistically, not on the basis of prejudice, suspicion or ignorance. Fortunately our present relations with our neighbours on the fundamentals of security are so good as to render this a somewhat theoretical question. Moreover the objective of both our diplomacy and our defence policy is to sustain the mutual interest that 
Australia and these countries all possess in protecting ourselves from armed attack by external powers. If there is success in sustaining the recognition of a common interest Australia has the prospect of an environment which adds protection to the defence of Australia, rather than creates a defence hazard for us. 
But nonetheless the shaping must address all credible contingencies- including the contingency that in some calamitous situation we might again find, as was once our experience, territory to Australia's north occupied by a country with hostile intent towards us. Australia's force must exploit the advantages of the sea and air spaces which would separate us from the bases of such an enemy. We cannot assume that all threats could necessarily be disposed of at a distance. I do suggest nevertheless that we would be well advised to reflect a little more carefully than some commentators do upon our present and future capabilities. I read recently a suggestion about our being 'invaded ' within a small number of years. It is time some straight talking was done about this kind of proposition. 'Invasion' is not a term to be used loosely by responsible people. I take it, therefore, that it was meant seriously and was intended literally to connote the onslaught of tens of thousands of foreign troops on this country for the purpose of taking it from us or of forcing an Australian Government to bend to the will of a foreign power. 
Let us think what that means. It means, firstly, the possession by a foreign power or alliance, hostile towards us, of maritime strength sufficient to overcome our own and gain substantial mastery of the seas around us, and the air space over them. The question is not- and I cannot emphasise this enough- whether some wooden boats or light aircraft can sometimes reach some lonely Australian shore undetected when only a small part of the military, and I stress military, means of surveillance and interception that we actually possess is deployed against them, and never for the purpose of destroying them. There are very few nations which possess today the capacity to project maritime power across thousands of miles and produce, at the other end of a very long line of communications, the kind of force on the sea, in the sea and over the sea that could overwhelm our own maritime capabilities in our own home waters and the air space above them. The two super-powers could do it if they had motive and unrestrained mind and opportunity; and there are two or three European navies which still have a fairly substantial trans-oceanic capability. Those nations are thousands of miles away. Happily, we can number most of them among our friends and allies. Invasion of our country would scarcely be an enterprise on which any country would embark excepting in the context of, or at the great risk of precipitating, very much larger global events. 
To be sure, the Soviet Union has the capability to attempt the invasion of virtually any country in the world, as for that matter does the United States. If one were allowed flights into fancy sufficient to conjure up a world in which no-one else existed but the Soviet Union and one other country, it would require no brilliant insight to demonstrate that the Soviet Union possesses overwhelming conventional military power visavis any one of a hundred or more potential victims. But I put it to this House that that kind of fancifulness does not happen to reflect the real world. 
One could think of a second tier of maritime powers. It is not difficult to flip through  Jane's Fighting Ships  to find second or third tier navies that possess more units than ours: fast, inshore, missile-armed patrol boats, for example, tailored to the operational requirements of the inland waters of the Baltic and the Mediterranean, or the enclosed waters of the South East Asian archipelago. One can distil plenty of parliamentary questions out of researches such as these. It is quite another matter to distil a credible, transoceanic strike force that could overcome our own sea-borne capabilities on, in and over the seas around our own country, defeat our land-based aircraft, blockade us and shepherd an invading force to our shores, and go on supplying and resupplying it. 
Once you go to the second tier of maritime nations you are entering a league- and make no mistake about it- whose members do not possess blue-water capabilities significantly greater, if any greater at all, than our own. There is no way that a member of this second tier of maritime powers could acquire the kind of maritime strength necessary to dominate the sea approaches to Australia without its naval program becoming blindingly obvious, and without the process taking that country an appreciable span of years, and I stress the word years. 
We, in the meantime, possess maritime capabilities which, by standards relevant to our immediate strategic requirements, are substantial, and will remain so. Let me say something about them, and also about our strike capabilities, reminding the House at the same time of my earlier comment about our needing to sustain a force that would deter interference with 
Australia's sovereignty and protect our supply lines in adjacent maritime areas. 
HMAS  Melbourne  is, by super-power standards, small and aging. Yet in the context of Australian defence she represents for several years to come an important defence asset. Carrying Skyhawk fighter aircraft, Tracker antisubmarine aircraft and Sea King anti-submarine helicopters, she can fight and destroy surface ships, submarines and enemy aircraft hundreds of miles from our shores. Our three guided missile destroyers,  Brisbane, Hobart  and  Perth  can hit very hard, not only with their missiles but each with two five inch guns, which can have half a ton of projectiles in the air before the first shot lands. Each ship's firepower is far greater than a World War II cruiser's. Behind them are our six River class destroyers with twin 4.5 inch guns, anti-aircraft missiles, and the Ikara antisubmarine missile, which can drop a torpedo into the lap of a submarine at very long range. 
The question- and I refer now to some current Press stories- is not whether our ships should sink a small barge when they are using a variety of munitions, mostly anti-aircraft, to test the fire power that they could bring to bear if used in that role at a long range, on a ship's superstructure. It would have been a truncated and unrewarding exercise if the barge had been disposed of when our ships first fired upon it. The question is whether, using their primary weapons in their primary roles, our vessels could stop enemy ships. And that, I suggest, is an altogether different matter. 
Augmenting our maritime forces, starting next year, will be the three FFGs, guided missile frigates, being built in the United States of America. These ships will bring to Australia new strengths and new weapons. They are to be armed with Harpoon- the most modern anti-ship missile in the world- the latest surface-to-air missile, and will be able to carry two helicopters, acting as the eyes' of the ship, targeting Harpoon over the horizon where radar cannot see. They are firmly in the program. 
Supporting these forces, and enabling them to stay at sea for long periods, are the replenishment ship  Supply  and the destroyer tender  Stalwart.  The program provides for replacement of  Supply.  Those are the major surface ships. 
Under the sea, our six Oberon class submarines are particularly effective. Their present and future weapons systems will make them the most advanced conventional submarines in the world. Extremely difficult to detect, they can hit hard hundreds, and if need be thousands, of miles from our shores. Ten years ago the Royal Australian Navy was barely in the submarine business. Today, it is there in a way which, by any but super-power standards, and certainly by regional standards, is highly significant. The Program provides for fitting the capacity to launch Harpoon anti-ship missiles while submerged. 
Modern patrol boat facilities at Darwin will both match and maximise the capabilities of the 15 new patrol craft that are in the program and will begin to enter service in the next 12 to 18 months. Likewise a new patrol boat base will be built at Cairns. 
The facilities at Cockatoo Island Dockyard now provide an excellent capability for refitting two submarines concurrently. Previously, that was not practicable. Until June 1978 we had no substantial naval facility in the west. Since then the facility at Cockburn Sound has been commissioned and is capable of supporting the deployments of our fleet, and, indeed, those of our allies. It enables our ships to be deployed for long periods away from their home fleet bases on the east coast. 
What I have just described is not a picture of impotence or unpreparedness. 
The Royal Australian Air Force's two squadrons of Orion aircraft form a remarkable force. The word 'reconnaissance', in its World War II sense, fails altogether to convey what each of these airborne platforms of surveillance and detection can already do. With Harpoon missiles and the Barra Sonobuoys to come- and they are in the program- the Orions will have remarkable powers both to seek and to destroy at long range in the approaches to Australia- and beyond, if that should be the mission. Plans are being developed to modernise the older Orions, to give them too a better surveillance capability- with commencement within the five-year program. 
In the program period we have included initial provision for capabilities that will be needed when the aircraft carrier HMAS  Melbourne  retires. I do not yet have the recommendations of the Chiefs of Staff Committee or financial advice on what form those capabilities should take. But it is neither necessary, nor desirable, to make such decisions prematurely. The relevant technologies and the performance of V-stol aircraft using seaborne platforms are still unfolding, and their futures depend on decisions still to be made in countries such as America and Britain. It is necessary for us to look at the whole matter of tactical airpower at sea and to weigh up the alternative ways of projecting it by land-based aircraft. 
I put it to the Senate that our maritime capabilities in our region do not lag behind the second tier of maritime nations, and are not in danger of slipping behind them. Under this Government they will certainly not do so. 
But let me mention some other aspects of maritime preparedness. We plan a program of construction, in our own dockyards, of new surface vessels for maritime defence. Studies are being made of overseas designs with a view to assessing what alternative levels of capability and cost are likely to be available for choice of a design appropriate to Australia's particular geographic and strategic circumstances. We have to foresee operational requirements well into the next century. 
The basic facilities at Learmonth airfield have been extensively upgraded so that it can be used as a forward base. Already it has supported maritime surveillance operations off the Western Australia coast and operational exercises by the strike and fighter forces. 
We will proceed with the development and prototype construction of the unique minehunting catamarans and so redress the deficiency that now exists in our mine counter-measure forces. We are also examining how best to improve our minesweeping capability. 
Also relevant to our maritime capabilities is a plan to increase the hydrographic survey work that we undertake around our coast both for defence and national purposes. More hydrographic vessels will be acquired. These will be built in our naval dockyard at Williamstown, Victoria. 
The process of converting the ex-Leyland plant at Zetland into a centralised stores depot for the Navy is well advanced. Computercontrolled stock retrieval systems will contribute directly to the Navy's operational effectiveness. 
The overall modernisation of Garden Island Dockyard in Sydney is part of the program. It is to commence during the next two years and will upgrade the efficiency and capabilities of the dockyard. It will be done in a manner which will enhance the appearance of the island and reduce air, noise and water pollution, It will include facilities to repair and maintain systems on the three new guided missile destroyers. 
I suggest that our maritime capabilities do not lag behind and are not in danger of doing so. I suggest once more that the requirement to maintain sufficient force to deter interference with Australia 's sovereignty is being met and will continue to be met. 
Even so let me turn to some other matters. Seven years in service, the Fills are proving, and will continue to prove, to be a good investment as a strike force. There is nothing within thousands of miles of this continent that can match them. It is time that we reminded ourselves that these aircraft can, at long range, at great speed in all weather and at night, penetrate defences and deliver their weapons loads. That does not suggest a nation unable to hit back- and to do so with telling effect. Our strike force nevertheless will need updating, particularly with more versatile weapons, and this will be started during the current program. We plan extensive improvements including fitting for new electronic warfare equipment, air-to-surface precision guided missiles, and more modern target acquisition and tracking systems, all based on the latest digital computer technology. These would require new avionics equipment. In the meantime we are, right now, in the process of equipping the strike force with a reconnaissance capability superior to anything we have ever had before. 
To maintain and service aircraft and their systems such as these, which are likely to remain at the forefront of military technology for a long time, Amberley has been developed as a base of the most modern kind. There is not a comparable base within thousands of miles. Many parts of the defence program command less attention because they are less glamorous. I might give an instance. A works program is at this time greatly extending the fuel storage capacities at major Royal Australian Air Force bases. By January 1980 total capacity will be almost double what it was in 1977. Amberley's has already gone up fourfold; work at Richmond- about a fivefold increase- is nearly completed; expansion at Williamtown- nearly fourfold- will be finished early in 1980. 
I emphasise yet again the asset we continue to have in the Mirage fighter force. The aircraft will serve us well for some years to come, overlapping later with the new tactical fighter aircraft to be selected from types either in inventory, or still to be developed, in the United States or France. As I informed the Senate on 8 March last, a RAAF operational and technical specialist mission leaves today, closely followed by an industry team, to pursue in depth the evaluation of contending TFF aircraft including the development of plans for Australian industry participation. In the meantime, there is provision in the program for retaining the effectiveness of Mirage into the late 1980s. New air-to-air missiles will be acquired with the new fighters; and the Mirages too will be equipped with new air-to-air missiles to maintain air defence capability through the 1980s. More helicopters will need to be ordered in the next three years to carry out a wide range of tasks in the Defence Force. We have to improve our capabilities over what we possess in our Wessex utility helicopters. We need new training helicopters to replace our older Iroquois in that role. We plan to improve our helicopter search and rescue capability. We are studying how much commonality is possible in the interests of economy and a workload for industry. The Department of Defence is working with Australian aircraft industry as we define the fixed wing aircraft to be acquired in the late 1980s for basic and advanced air training. Our Canberra aircraft are used for such tasks as photographic survey work and target towing work. Their use in survey programs in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia has been invaluable. We will provide in the coming years for these roles. 
I return now to the suggestion which I read recently that the prospect of our being invaded within a small number of years had implications- the suggestion was immediate implications- for the size of the Australian Army. May I refer again to our need to have a defence force with the men in the right skills, possessing the right weapons, that can train and develop a force expanded in size, should a direct threat to Australia begin to emerge. This applies to the Army and I hope most honourable members would by now be satisfied that we are not yet in a situation where invasion of this country needs to be taken as a serious, imminent possibility. In the interest of rational defence debate, we must resist a somewhat old fashioned concept of measuring the country's military capability in terms of the number of men in our Army, or the number of men we could contribute to overseas expeditionary forces in a major conflict in a distant theatre. 
Lest it be said tomorrow, 'Killen knocks the Army', let me say here and now that we shall always need an army large enough to embrace and keep abreast of the most modern skills of land warfare and to provide a basis for expansion, while being ready for lesser contingencies that may require the deployment of some part of it. On all the advice to successive Australian governments, the size of regular army should be between 30,000 and 40,000 plus a substantial, reasonably well-trained reserve. We have a total army of 54,000 today-32,000 regulars and 22,000 reserves. It is highly professional and so regarded internationally. It trains hard. It is the core of leadership and skill around which, in some future defence emergency we would build. We have the largest full-time army this country has ever maintained in peacetime. The reserves are at a satisfactory level at 22,000 effectives. 
I digress for a moment to take exception to some exaggerations to the effect that the Army is so limited as to be unable to do this or that. To be sure, extraction of 300 engineers, or 700 logistic personnel for overseas service, causes disruptions and extra costs and puts training schedules out of phase and balance- and a good deal more so than is commonly realised. But there is an enormous difference between these things being tackled in a considered, compassionate and orderly way, consistent with the way any other section of our community would arrange its affairs in peacetime; and the way they can be done, and would be done, in an emergency. It is absurd, when spreading invasion scares, to assert as I read in one recent Press account, that 'as Australia can muster only a few thousand troops if we were invaded, we would be far from ready'. This is no less silly than my saying that, as I could not put my horse in the Melbourne Cup if it were held tomorrow, I should shoot him tonight. The Melbourne Cup is not being run tomorrow. Please let us have a sensible and serious debate about defence, and about how thousands of millions of taxpayers' money should responsibly be spent, which is based on worthy propositions, not a competition in scare mongering or political grandstanding. There are things which should prudently, and I stress 'prudently', be done in respect of our ground forces in the program period. 
The Government aims to improve the air and sea mobility of the ground force within Australia, and the capacity of the Services to move a modest force over the seas and sustain it in limited operations. Next year the new amphibious heavy lift ship HMAS  Tobruk  will be commissioned. She will operate out of new facilities to be built in Brisbane. She will give the Defence Force a capability for moving men and equipment to any location around our coast without the use of port facilities. We already have a substantial air-lift capability in fixed and rotary-wing aircraft and have recently acquired a fleet of new C-130 aircraft. Special emphasis will continue to be put on preserving a storehouse of expertise in the various corps which would enable such a force to be built up from the bottom if a threat called for it. We have already improved our armour. And may I say here that the one point which critics contrived to overlook last November is that it will sometimes be a wise course in Australia's circumstances to hold and maintain certain equipments on a care-and-maintenance basis instead of working all of them, full time, all the time. In the program we shall be acquiring new trucks and additional lighter vehicles that will improve mobility and logistic support capability. 
The Army's present 5.5 inch gun will be replaced early in the program by new 155mm towed howitzers incorporating the significant technological advances that have been made in range and delivery accuracy. Other support equipment will be acquired to enhance the Army's mobility in the field. We will also be furthering the Army's own independent electronic warfare capability, and acquiring new combat surveillance equipment in order to keep up with technological advances in this important area. 
May I mention some further planned developments applying to the Defence Force as a whole. We intend to adopt the latest improvements in simulators for training. This applies not only to our fighter and strike aircraft but we are acquiring simulators for training our new P3C aircraft personnel, adapted to the Barra Sonobuoy Antisubmarine Warfare system. Many command and control tasks on board our guided missile destroyers can be simulated on shore, and investigations are proceeding into similar equipments in relation to the FFGs. 
Communications equipment is important. A project now under way will ultimately give our land forces modern light-weight portable and secure radios for field operation. Ships communications systems will be augmented with advanced radio systems and new teleprinters. The secure communication network in Australia, already announced, will be extended. The initial phase in Queensland and Victoria will be extended in the next few years to cover both New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. 
I do not feel what I have just outlined conveys a sense of the ineffectual, or the mismanaged. What is being done comprehends an efficiently managed and thoroughly thought-through review of this nation's defence capabilities, setting priorities right within the financial limits that have to be imposed. 
I would like to say something more on that point. Some honourable members may be aware that each month I chair a meeting of the Council of Defence. It comprises my colleague the Minister assisting me, the Minister for Administrative 
Services  (Mr McLeay),  the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the three Service Chiefs. I preside at the Council meeting. The meeting discusses a monthly summary of defence business. The document spans the full range of activity of the force and the Department. It covers, to mention but a few examples, the main exercises in hand and in prospect; progress in service training programs; Defence Force activities in assistance to the civil community; surveillance operations; dealings with our allies on strategic matters; progress in scientific research; progress with equipment projects; problems with tenders or quotations; recruitment trends; service activities abroad, for example, with the United Nations; and the effects of budgetary constraints, labour disputes, accidents, impending legislation and other matters. Despite the stringent economy of words the report is never fewer than 20 pages. 
I relate this not out of complaint but because I appreciate the enormous span of activity which is managed daily and with great professional competence by the commanders of the Defence Force and the officials of the Department of Defence. I have actively encouraged debate in this country about defence issues. My friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  was gracious enough recently to acknowledge that. But I have to say that I sometimes despair of some of the results. 
I may have overestimated the willingness of the media to discriminate between the compulsive critic and the informed and balanced critic; or to discern the man who has a valuable, intellectual contribution to make, from the lobbyist seeking to advance a material interest of his own, or of his sponsors. Perhaps I have had too much faith in the proposition that taking party politics out of the defence debate is an objective that can be achieved, and that discussion of defence matters will rise above the level of sensationalising the views of the precious and the disgruntled. This Parliament would benefit from more open mindedness and willingness to listen. I am personally distressed by the prejudice that I sometimes hear expressed towards defence administrators. 
Let me be clear about one thing: It will always be easy to point to areas of our defence structure that need, or will sooner or later need, attention. As requirements are met or problems solved, new ones will take their places. But the central judgment will always be: How soon, how fast, in what order of priority and at what cost. These judgments- the defence decisions- will be made in the Cabinet rooms, or the offices of the two 
Ministers in charge of defence matters. They are not made by civil servants or military officers. I want to add something about distribution of spending in the defence budget. We need to refresh our perceptions of some of the fundamental matters involved in defence administration. 
I turn first to manpower. Manpower is our largest single defence cost, and our most important asset. In 1977-78 it accounted for 54 per cent of all defence spending. Yet ours is not a manpower-intensive defence posture and there are obvious reasons why it cannot be so in peacetime, which I should not need to dwell upon. But there is a point I want to put with some force: The more complex the equipment we bring into service, the more expensive our manpower will be. The quality of manpower needed pushes defence further into the high cost bracket. Not merely to remain competitive with the civilian sector and provide wage equality, but in terms of training, retraining, specialisation, broader education, higher education. 
A core force concept such as we have will not work unless it embraces also the concept of that core force maintaining exceptionally high professional standards. I would like to comment here about a related matter which is not widely understood. It is sometimes said that our peacetime defence force is 'top heavy'. Of course it is. I do not think this is an area where we can indulge ourselves in parsimony. There is a long lead time for producing senior commanders, staff officers, top-flight NCOs upon whom we would depend to lead an expanded force in war. 
We would be in dire trouble if the career structure in, say, our Navy, allowed only a handful of men to achieve an Admiral's rank and pay. What of officer retention rates under those circumstances- not to mention the quality of the professional advice available to governments? It is always to be remembered that the task of defence administration under peacetime standards of financial efficiency and scrutiny, properly demanded by this Parliament and by law, calls on experience and professionalism in the Public Service as well as the Services. 
The nature of defence administration has been attracting the attention of some commentators. On that subject I invite consideration of an address, delivered a fortnight ago by the country's most senior military officer, General  Sir Arthur  MacDonald. He said: 
There seems to be an impression that the secretary's responsibility for financial administration and control of expenditure empowers him to decide, on his own initiative if you like, what equipment is bought and what is not- despite the views of the Chiefs of Staff or the Chief of Staff of the service directly concerned. This, of course, is nonsense, and it might be an appropriate stage for a few words on the committee structure within the Department. No one person is the complete expert on any major defence issue. 
Indeed the skills and knowledge of a number of uniformed and civilian experts can be required to make a sound judgment on a matter which might call into play strategic considerations, operational requirements, defence science and technology, the capabilities of industry, financial programming and contractual aspects. Committees are a necessary part of defence as they are of any large organisation, in order to bring together the range of views which need to be taken into account in determining complex questions. 
Incidentally, contrary to popular opinion, there has not been an increase in the proportion of civilian to service personnel in defence. Since 1973 there has been a significant decrease. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to make one point perfectly clear: I do not believe that the role of the Public Service in the department is as all powerful as many outside defence say it is. Such a misconception does little credit to the knowledge and understanding of those who propagate it. It underplays the absolutely fundamental responsibilities and contributions of uniformed personnel at all levels. Personally, I find this particular criticism quite insulting and if anyone has information which would stand up to scrutiny I would be interested to hear it 
I come back to manpower. Our defence manpower costs in this country are about the same as in other countries with which we might compare ourselves. In the United States, for example, they are 57 per cent when calculated on the same basis as our own; in Canada, 60 per cent; in Britain, 45 per cent. Our Defence Force development policy has insisted, nevertheless, that the manpower expenditure rates must continue to come down. There is no way this can be done quickly. There are prior requirements to satisfy. I have mentioned some of them: Retraining, new specialisation and higher education. There is usually a price in manpower to pay when a new equipment is introduced into the Force. 
I have spoken earlier in this House regarding the canard about an army of bureaucrats. But it still persists. I would ask the patience of the House while I seek once more to dispose of the matter. The fact is that thirteen per cent of all defence expenditure today goes to civilian salaries and wages. Five years ago the figure was almost 17 per cent. Something like 6,500 defence civilian jobs have been given up or transferred to other functions in recent years. Of the 30,700 who remain, about 5,600 are dockyard employees and 22,800 fall into other categories including professional engineers, naval architects, scientists, technical officers, draftsmen, tradesmen, artisans, storemen, drivers and the like; or else they work in regional offices providing accounting, clerical and other support; or they comprise the staffs of computing services, the Joint Intelligence Organisation, and the like. 
Comparing like with like, there are in the Australian Defence structure 450 civilians to every 1,000 servicemen. In the United Kingdom, there are 825; in the United States of America, 490; and in Canada, 420. Some 2,300 civiliansPublic Servants- occupy positions in the central divisions and branches of the Department of Defence, which, contrary to the most obstinate myth, do not comprise a massive bureaucracy. The civilian functions at Russell Hill are today more streamlined and more coherent, than they have ever been. The fact is that 68 per cent of defence civilians are employed directly under the service chiefs of staff. The fact is that, did they not exist, the functions they perform would have to be carried out by servicemen diverted from tasks more directly relevant to the role of the Defence Force. Five years ago, total manpower costs stood at 61 per cent of defence expenditure. Today they are down to 54 per cent. The 7 per cent reduction in manpower costs has been achieved even while well-deserved improvements to service terms and conditions were being made and while qualitative improvements, in the nature of long-term investment, were also being made- and continue to be made- in Australian defence manpower. Let me cite but three examples. We have today a Joint Services Staff College providing mid-career education for the senior officers of the future. We did not have one 10 years ago. We have today a Joint Warfare Establishment. We did not have it four years ago. We have today a Naval Staff College. We did not have it one year ago. 
I turn to the question of officer retirements. It is one assiduously pursued by some commentators. Almost every organisation contains people who will leave it earlier than their compulsory retiring age. Their number will, for a time, increase perceptibly in organisations which introduce procedures to make retirement possible in the last few years of service with little financial penalty. Every organisation will also contain people who, before acquiring pension rights, decide to quit, whether out of dissatisfaction or because of the attraction of alternative employment, or for any of dozens of other possible reasons. Every large organisation will have particular areas in which, at particular times, it would hope for a good retention rate, and other areas where a higherthannormal turnover may even be welcome. 
The defence force is very much like the rest of our society in these respects, and one would not have it otherwise. I suggest the figures for officer resignations are not significantly different from those among the professional groups in any large industrial undertaking. They vary a little from time to time and from specialisation to specialisation, but they have in the past two or three years mostly been about what one would have expected in most respects, in most categories, most of the time. They are not the subject of abiding concern to the chiefs of staff. Even if they seem to exercise one or two observers whose own resignations from the Defence Force did not leave the unbridgeable gaps they might have supposed. 
I have spoken about manpower and 54 per cent of defence expenditure. Another 27 per cent or thereabouts goes on running costs. The money feeds, clothes and houses the Defence Force, buys the consumable stores and maintenance spare parts, the computing services, and the maintenance services. It pays the rent, power, freight, fuel and other bills. The Senate will not want an interminable list. In Russell Hill jargon it finances the activities of the Defence Force. It funds their main function in peace-time, which is to train for war with equipment kept in serviceable condition. It funds, additionally, the operations that they conduct in peace-time such as surveillance and patrol, United Nations peacekeeping and assistance to the civil community. The Defence Force is a busy force. It has intensive training and other programs. There is constant activity. But it all costs money. A patrol boat costs about $1,000 per day to run; a DDG, $18,000; an Orion aircraft, $2,300 per hour to operate; a Mirage aircraft, $2,900 per hour to operate; and a CI 30, $1,300 an hour. To give some point to those figures I point out that they exclude manpower costs. 
The progressive refitting of the submarine squadron accounts on average for about $17m annually. Qualitative improvement nevertheless is constant. If some facilities are old and in need of attention, others, such as Puckapunyal, in general terms, and the base at Amberley that I have mentioned, are as modern as one could wish. There exists a very high-level technicalapprenticeship training scheme, producing tradesmen for the benefit of the Defence Force and, indeed, the nation as a whole. Time will not permit me to do more than mention defence cooperation with other countries, which takes up a further one percent of the defence Budget. Yet I might remind the House that within the region our military reputation stands high. Fierce competition exists for places on Australian military training courses. Some 600 to 700 foreign students attend such courses each year. Nearly 2,000 members of the Defence Force serve in neighbouring countries, transferring knowledge and expertise. 
Let me mention but one more example: Over the past 10 years Australian Army surveyors, with Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Australian Navy support, have contributed more to knowledge by the governments concerned of the physical features of the archipelago to our north than was gathered in the hundreds of years of colonial administration. With 54 per cent of the defence expenditure allocated to manpower, 27 per cent to running costs and 1 per cent to defence co-operation programs, we are left with 1 8 per cent for capital equipment and facilities, including 1 4 per cent for equipment. The latter is the crunch-figure. Whilst never ignoring the importance of trained men in service, the provisions for capital equipment and weapons systems are an absolutely fundamental measure of our preparations against future uncertainties. The corresponding figure in 1974-75 was 6 per cent. It has gone up every year since then; and in the context, moreover, of larger overall defence budgets. It will rise in the years ahead. 
To be sure, some part of the investments funds are being used to foot the bills for equipments decided upon in earlier years. I will not be ungenerous about that. Some of the planning that was in train when we came to power, some of the decisions that had been taken, were completely justifiable. It was right, for instance, to decide to buy FFGs and P3Cs from the United States. Of course, there were gaps to be filled between taking decisions and actually placing any orders. Some quantities were inadequate and needed adding to. I remind the Senate that this Government made good the shortcomings in both the instances I have cited, and in others. I do not wish to introduce a polemic note, but the question will intrigue the House, as it has intrigued me, as to how our predecessors had planned to pay for their decisions- if and when translated into orders. In any event it fell to us to provide the money. We have done that, and very much more as well. Capital equipment investment for the future has more than doubled under this Government. It continues to rise. 
I turn to the patrol frigate program. Three patrol frigates- FFGs as they are so styled- are being built for Australia by United States naval shipbuilders. The practice is, as the Senate will know, periodically to review the estimated cost of these works. I can now inform the Senate of the latest position after a review with the United States Navy. The revised estimate of the average sailaway cost for each ship is $132m in August 1978 prices. This is an average increase of about $9m for each ship over the previously announced estimates. The contract which the United States 
Navy has with the shipbuilders is of a type which provides the builder with an incentive to deliver on time and to contain costs. Progress in the construction program is encouraging. The performance of the lead ship has fully justified the confidence of the United States and Australian navies in the capabilities of these ships. In August 1978 prices the total project cost for the three ships is currently estimated at $642m. 
It is not generally understood that the project cost covers a great number of matters and extends to a wide range of activities. The cost includes outfits of missiles and torpedoes, spares, maintenance equipment, assistance to secure Australian industry participation, travel and overseas allowances associated with training, training equipment and helicopters. I make a specific reference to the provision of funds within the project cost concerning helicopters. The figure I have given includes the provision of $95 m for helicopters. As I have explained, helicopters add substantially to the operational capability of the FFGs. No final selection of type has yet been made. I believe it may prove possible to satisfy the RAN 's requirement at a lower cost than the figure I have given. In the interests of project control, cost estimates issued from time to time henceforth will combine the costs of the three ships as this facilitates better project control. 
Some grossly inaccurate statements have been made with respect to the FFG project. The position deserves to be made clear. In October 1978 I informed the House that the total project cost for the three FFGs was estimated at $600m. That figure was expressed in 1977 prices. That figure of $600m expressed in August 1978 prices would be approximately $649m. There has been, in fact a reduction in real terms of $7m in the FFG project. 
I want to conclude with some general comments. As I have said we possess substantial capabilities and the core of the Defence Force we may need in the future exists in the Navy, Army and Air Force. In strike and defensive capabilities we obviously have limits in numbers, but we have the skills and equipments needed as a basis for expansion. There are some discernible deficiencies but the significance of them has always to be weighed, as I have earlier suggested, against the likelihood of an international situation arising where we could be caught unprepared. As long as it can be assesed that no potential military adversary of Australia has a significant long-range capability, the present limitations in the size of our continent-wide surveillance and air defence systems can be accepted. But obviously this is an area which must be kept under review. The defence programe is currently and in the immediate future allotting unusually large sums to various technologies for gathering data and information about our maritime and terrestial neighbourhood. These include activities by us both undisclosed and disclosed. The latter includes the overthehorizon radar, long-range aircraft with their various sensors, naval patrol vessels, and submarines equipped with advanced sonic facilities. I believe it is right to continue to place this emphasis on surveillance and information gathering in our defence program even though not insignificant sums are thereby diverted from direct combat capabilities, whether manpower or weapons. 
The region of South East Asia and the SouthWest Pacific does not contain at present a longdistance offensive capability which could be regarded as a threat to Australia's capacity to defend itself. In the event of a deterioration to the point of a threat to Australia, we have many requirements which would need to be satisfied but we would have the singular advantage of a defence force that has mastered the very high technology equipment which is now held in the Navy, Air Force and Army and around which the country would build as the threat developed. The Government has not thought it necessary to provide, as yet, in the program for aerial refuelling, airborne early warning capabilities. It is our judgment that it is right to place this later in our consideration. There are approximately 1 .3 million categories of items in service inventories. The management of those inventories is a prodigious task. It is an absolutely vital one. 
There are some holdings of equipment spares and maintenance stores that are lower than I would like them to be. There are some categories of ammunition stocks that I would like to increase. I would prefer to see more orders being placed by my officers than financial limitations enable them to do. There are some service activities that have been disturbed. Discussion in Cabinet leaves me confident that we will be able to make a significant increase in expenditure on these items in 1979-80. 1 can say with equal confidence that increased levels of expenditure will be maintained in successive years. Meanwhile, I want to give the House an assurance that the intrinsic defence capability of the country has not been impaired by such shortages as exist. Assessments of the adequacy of stocks of spares and maintenance stores to be held by the Services must take account of certain favourable resupply arrangements we enjoy. Many items are produced locally; some in our own factories. It deserves to be acknowledged that some 55 per cent of defence expenditure on equipment, spares, maintenance, repair and overhaul is spent in Australia. Where we must purchase from abroad it is usually under special government-to-government arrangements. In the case of purchasing from the United States, these arrangements provide our Services with the great advantage of direct access to the large stocks of the United States Services without the necessity to re-negotiate with manufacturers. 
I accept the Government's judgment- as I may add do our chiefs of staff- that, on the balance of things, we shall have to persevere with some continuing restraints on service training activities and that in the present international circumstances the risks in doing so are acceptable. We shall meanwhile steadily raise our acquisition of major equipments. The Government will sustain the campaign against inflationwhich I may say would be no friend of the defence effort of the country if it defeated us. The personality of Australia has changed very greatly in the last generation. We may not always be conscious of the nature of that change but change there indeed has been. In 1952 there was genuinely held concern by many people in this country that Australia should participate in the ANZUS agreement without the United Kingdom as a member of that agreement. Time and tide wait for no man. The past can instruct. It is the future which concerns. 
As the nation has changed, so indeed has its responsibilities. For the greater part of our national existence we depended substantially for the preservation of our national integrity upon the United Kingdom and the United States. Events have required us to meet that concern from substantially our own resources. We are doing just that. Australia today has a defence capability which is consistent with our responsibilities and our circumstances. Australia has an intelligence gathering and assessing capability singular in quality. We have a surveillance and interdiction capability completely reflective of our determination to preserve our national sovereignty. We have developed technological military capabilities which are unique in our area. We have developed the skills and trained personnel to support them. The cost of this endeavour is clear. The complexity of it should be acknowledged. 
There is in the service of the Defence Force of this country a professionalism quite exceptional in the country's history. That professionalism does not and will not tolerate complacency; it is critical of mediocrity of performance; it is anxious to correct shortcomings; it is responsive to events; it gives advice promptly and bluntly. That professionalism has put at the disposal of this country a defence capability which is certainly not under-estimated by people who live outside it. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill gives effect to the Government's decisions, which were announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  on 1 8 October 1 978, to make certain changes to the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. In the statement outlining those changes, the Minister referred to the opportunity that had been given for views to be put to the Government on this matter and to the consultations he had held with the trade unions, business and other sections of the community before the Government took its decision. Those views were fully considered by the Government. The broad purpose of the Bill is to modify the operations of the PJT by reducing the emphasis on price notification and by broadening its inquiry function. The Bill replaces the present price notification requirements which are based upon the size of a company, with selective notification of price increases for a limited period by companies following public inquiry by the PJT. 
Companies which have been the subject of a public inquiry may be required to notify their price increases for up to 12 months at the discretion of the PJT or for a longer period if the Minister approves. This will enable the Tribunal to monitor a company's pricing behaviour closely following a public inquiry. 
In anticipation of these changes, and at the request of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs following his statement of 18 October last, the Tribunal used its exemption powers to release prescribed companies from the notification procedures. Companies involved at that time in public inquiries were not exempted. The PJT will, in future, concentrate its resources in the areas of price surveillance and public inquiry. It is well equipped to carry out an ongoing surveillance role. The PJT will be able to draw upon its bank of information on the pricing behaviour of companies. The Tribunal will also utilise the regular channels of information such as representations by consumers and user industries, commercial information and official price indices and reports. Where necessary the PJT will also seek the co-operation of individual companies in providing particular pricing information. 
The Tribunal will retain its power to require any company to furnish information about its prices should this be necessary and will, therefore, be well placed to examine price movements and to maintain close surveillance over prices of particular significance to the economy. Arising from its surveillance of prices the PJT will be able, at any time, to recommend a public inquiry into any company or group of companies. Public inquiries will underpin the Tribunal's surveillance role and highlight areas needing further inquiry. Presently the Tribunal is limited in the course of its inquiries to determining whether prices charged or proposed to be charged by companies are justified. This function will remain. The Bill will allow the PJT to conduct public inquiries, which do not involve price justification. These inquiries will consider matters such as the structure of prices within industries and how they are established. 
Turning to the way in which inquiries will be conducted and the procedures associated with this, a pre-inquiry procedure will be established in respect of prices justification inquiries initiated by the PJT. This will allow the Tribunal to obtain basic information and consult with the company or companies concerned as well as with other interested parties to determine whether a prima facie case exists for a public inquiry. The decision whether to proceed to a public inquiry will be subject to approval by the Minister in respect of inquiries initiated by the PJT. The capacity which exists for the Minister to refer for public inquiry matters arising from wage increases outside the wage indexation guidelines and allegations of excessive prices will be maintained. However, it will be open to the Minister to confine a reference to the industries to be covered by an inquiry, in which case it will be for the Tribunal to select the companies to be taken to inquiry. 
The Bill amends the price freeze provisions of the Act to provide the Tribunal with a discretion to allow an interim price increase to a company under inquiry. The existing provisions are unduly restrictive and can prevent companies from recovering legitimate cost increases for up to 4 months in certain cases. These provisions will not apply in respect of inquiries initiated by the Minister which do not require the Tribunal to consider the justification of the prices under inquiry. 
Time limits for completion of inquiries by the PJT have been made more flexible by including provisions which allow the Minister to specify the time for completion of inquiries initiated by him, and which allow the Tribunal to extend the time for other inquiries with the consent of the company concerned. 
The Bill modifies the confidentiality provisions of the Act so that companies may claim confidentiality in respect of documents and submissions containing secret formulas or processes. If requested, the PJT will not disclose information which in its opinion would damage the competitive position of a company, unless the Tribunal considers it in the public interest to do so. A provision is included in the Bill to allow the Minister to issue general directions to the PJT as to any matter which should be given special consideration by it in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. This provision will ensure that, notwithstanding its statutory independence to arrive at its own findings in particular cases, the Tribunal's operations will be placed within the framework of Government policy. 
The changes to the Prices Justification Act contained in this Bill demonstrate the Government's concern that in its operations the PJT should not add unduly to business costs or inhibit investment. At the same time they will ensure adequate surveillance of prices and improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined. The PJT will be better equipped to conduct comprehensive inquiries, as the need arises, into pricing practices within industries as distinct from companies- inquiries which range beyond the narrow confines of prices justification. The Government intends that the Tribunal be employed in this role as a support where appropriate for its policies and, in particular, its anti-inflation strategy. In this regard the PJT will undertake a program of inquiries into prices within industries which are major component groups of the consumer price index, or which have a significant impact upon the level of prices in other industries. These inquiries will be broadly similar to the inquiry presently being held by the Tribunal into the processed foods industry. Apart from its price surveillance role, the PJT will carry out a valuable function of advising the Government on the structure of prices in key areas of the economy. I am confident that the business community will recognise the importance of this function and respond accordingly. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion of  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
It seems highly unlikely to me but I will certainly inquire and get a reply for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
10 December 1978, 24 December 1978 and 21 January 1979. 
On each of these Sundays traffic was sufficient to operate separate direct flights between Brisbane and Bundaberg and between Brisbane and Gladstone. 
In view of (b) the question of approaching another airline to provide a substitute flight did not arise. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) The members of my personal staff and I are contacted on occasions by representatives of organisations on behalf of firms. However, time and cost considerations do not permit detailed recording of a type which would enable me to provide the honourable senator with the information requested. 
Defence: Ministerial Meetings with Business Consultants  (Question No. 1189) 
Some honourable senators will be aware that the Queensland local government elections were held on 31 March, which was last Saturday. These included the elections for the shires of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Those elections were held. I am advised that in each of these places the councils which had been sitting, prior to their being dismissed, were re-elected. I am sure that that is a matter of gratification to many honourable senators. It is also a matter of gratification to the Government that the agreement which was made with the Queensland Government in April 1978 has reached the point where we now have elected shire councils with statutory rights and with leases to the original land areas of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I assure  Senator Bonner  that the Government will take a continuing interest in the operation of those bodies. I think that their operation will be of considerable significance, not only to themselves but also to other Aboriginal communities in Queensland and elsewhere. I am pleased to advise the Senate that I will be visiting those communities and attending, I think, the initial meetings of those councils next week-end. 
It does appear that one note sent to me by my Department has received rather wider circulation than usual, and it would certainly appear that  Senator Keeffe  has had access to it. In any event, yes, I did receive a note from my Department which contained information that there had been an appointment to the position of Aboriginal Affairs Manager for Pancontinental. However, the appointment was not that of a former officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs but of a former officer of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. That is what was contained in the report. He was in the Aboriginal employment section of the latter Department. There is also reference in the note - 
Actually the copy I was sent was typed; I do not know about the copy that was sent to the honourable senator. In any event, it also went on to refer to the fact that officers of Pancontinental have had a number of discussions with officers of this and other departments' and the 'approach is now much more conciliatory and less aggressive than previously'. I am afraid that I read that to be that the approach of Pancontinental was less aggressive and more conciliatory and I can assure the honourable senator that I intend to continue reading it in that way. 
I would like to assure  Senator Keeffe  and indeed any other honourable senator that there is no question of our being completely tied in with anybody's policy except that which has been announced quite clearly by the Government. When it has been up for debate over recent times there has been a reaffirmation of policy both by me on behalf of the Government and by the Prime Minister who expressed the commitment to the basic principles of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. As to the policy document to which the honourable senator referred in the last pan of the question, I assume that he refers to the paper produced by the Australian Mining Industry Council and I draw his attention to the fact that I issued a Press release in relation to that. I think that the Press release makes the position of the Government quite clear. I would like to say that I remain open at any time to discuss with anybody who is interested in land rights the operations of the land rights Act. In the last few months I have had a number of discussions with the land councils and I have had some discussions with representatives of mining companies; that is a matter on which there is no secret. But I and the Government remain committed to the principles of the land rights legislation. 
I recall that the subject matter of the first part of the question asked by the honourable senator was discussed in Estimates committees last year when, I think, he was representing his country overseas. I do not recall the information provided at that time, but I think that it involved some proposals for extension of FM broadcasting. I will seek the necessary particulars for the honourable senator and let him have a reply. Regarding alterations to the bands and so on, what they will cost and when they will be made, I will refer those matters to  Mr Staley  and seek a detailed reply for the honourable senator. 
-We would need to set aside two hours for Question Time if questions relating to the motivation of honourable senators were permitted. I might as well be asked who prompted  Senator Keeffe  to ask the question he put to me today. I will put the matter to my colleague but I do not believe that it is one on which he will be able to assist the honourable senator. 
by leave- I present the following paper: 
Preparation and Distribution of Analyses of the Proposals of Distribution Commissioners- Ministerial Statement, 3 April 1979 - and move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Honourable senators will recall that following the report of the royal commission of Inquiry into matters in relation to the electoral redistribution in Queensland in 1977, there was discussion in Parliament concerning analyses by the Australian Electoral Office of the preliminary proposals of the Distribution Commissioners. At that time the Government tabled all the relevant documents and said that consideration would be given to determining the practices which would govern the preparation and distribution of analyses in the future. Honourable senators will be aware from the papers which previously were tabled and circulated that the analyses prepared by the Australian Electoral Office have been based on publicly available information. I might add that given time and expertise, probably anyone could produce them. Certainly it is common practice for politicians, academics, party workers, journalists and others to make assessments of the possible political effects of redistributions. Often these are published. 
It is also clear that much of the public and parliamentary consideration of the proposals of Distribution Commissioners is strongly directed towards their political effects. In these circumstances the Government believes that it is quite appropriate for objective analyses of this kind to be prepared by the Australian Electoral Office. At the same time, because this information is of considerable interest both to the Parliament and to the public, it has been decided that future analyses should be tabled in Parliament with the object of assisting the consideration of the redistribution proposals. It follows that the analyses will be available to the Distribution Commissioners should they wish to refer to them. 
Analyses in the past have contained statistical tables showing the percentage of the vote which would have been won by each political party in each proposed division at the preceding election had it been conducted on the proposed boundaries. They have also contained commentaries summarising the anticipated political consequences of the proposed redistribution on the basis of the data contained in these statistical tables. Lest it be considered, albeit unjustifiably, that the commentaries are critical of the Commissioners' proposals, or are not detached in their assessments, it has been decided to confine future analyses to the statistical tables only. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My Department is responsible for administering existing Government policies and providing advice on the formulation of new policies all of which concern both industry and commerce. Consequently it is normal for companies, industry organisations, unions and individuals concerned with these policies to make approaches to my Department, and they may choose to use the services of a lobbyist to do so. 
Whilst no formal procedures exist to identify and record approaches by lobbyists in a separate consolidated form all written approaches are retained along with other relevant papers on departmental files. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists  (Question No. 1214) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Since departure tax is necessarily incurred on overseas visits, it is included in the costs charged to the appropriation under the control of the Department of Administrative Services for official overseas visits by Ministers and Members of Parliament. 
The tax is not paid by the Department of Administrative Services when Ministers and Members of Parliament travel overseas for private purposes or when members undertake visits for overseas studies and investigations in accordance with entitlements provided for in Determination Number 1 978/9 of the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport and get a reply for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. Yes: the lack of acknowledgement was due to shortcomings in administrative procedures covering the handling of correspondence. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia has advised that the following airports do not have public or leased coin telephone servicesQuilpie; Cooktown; Hayman Island; Isisford; Thursday Island; Winton; Whitsunday; Happy Bay; South Molle; Birdsville and Daydream Island. 
There are, however, subscriber telephone services at these airports with the exception of Birdsville and Daydream Island. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. I have stated publicly that the Government does not believe that the election of members of staff to Commissions is the most appropriate way, either to ensure an effective Commission or further the relationship between staff and management. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

The approved establishment is assessed to cover both tasks simultaneously. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) Telecom Australia does not grant free telephone services, as such, to its officers. 
The Commission may authorise Official Telephone Services where there is a need for officers, by virtue of their office, to be available after hours for contact by the Commission, outside organisations or members of the public or where, in other circumstances a need can be substantiated. 
Official Telephone Services are rent free and the holders are granted150 free meter registrations in each six monthly billing. Trunk calls and STD calls related to official business are recoverable, subject to approval by the particular Branch Head on production of a record of the calls made showing date, duration, destination and reason for each call. 
Two hundred and ninety-nine. 
No. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications, has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Once. 
Yes. 
-The Government has appeared before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner in the hearing which began this week and which included inter alia a claim over Ayers Rock. The submission put forward on behalf of the Commonwealth Government was that the land is a reserve, not unalienated Crown land and hence is not available to claim. As far as I know,  Mr Justice  Toohey has not yet ruled on that submission. It is a matter which remains to be determined. 
-Yesterday, in response to a question from  Senator Bonner,  I gave some information about the elections on Aurukun and Mornington Island. I am afraid that some of that information was not correct and I wish to correct it now. I said yesterday that each of the councils had been re-elected. The position is that the earlier councils each had five members and that the new councils each have eight members. At Aurukun four of the five previous councillors ran for election. All were elected. The previous  chairman  received the highest number of votes. At Mornington Island, all five concillors ran for reelection. Of these two appear to have been elected, the election of one because of postal voting, is still in doubt, and two appear to have been defeated. At both Aurukun and Mornington Island the polls have yet to be declared. I apologise to the Senate for the mis-information that was previously given. 
The Government rejects the motion which has been put forward by the Opposition. I came into the chamber assuming that the motion had been put forward because the Opposition had misread or misunderstood the public documents which are available in this matter. Having heard the speech of  Senator Cavanagh,  who led for the Opposition and who went so far as to make suggestions of coercion in relation to my recent visit to Darwin, I cannot put such a charitable interpretation on the motion. I would simply say that whilst I would welcome in this Senate positive attempts to examine, for example, the propositions which are being put forward by the Australian Mining Industry Council, many of which I thoroughly disagree with, I must oppose with great vigour many of the points that have been made by  Senator Cavanagh. 
To some extent, I think that there has been misunderstanding on  Senator Cavanagh  's part. He has suggested, for example, that in some way the proposal for an agreement between the land councils and the Northern Territory Government and the Commonwealth Government will permit some change with respect to the future opening up of roads on Aboriginal land. Nothing could be further from the truth. There is no intention to affect the position with respect to the resumption of land, the opening up of fresh roads and so on. There is nothing in the documents which would support that. I just cite that as an example of the clear misunderstanding which has been shown by  Senator Cavanagh. 
Two main propositions are being put forward in this motion. The first is that the Government has failed to counter a campaign by the mining industry which is seeking to defeat the land rights legislation. That campaign is described as false and one of self-interest. The second proposition is that the Government has apparently imposed some restrictions on Aboriginal control of Aboriginal land. I think that in the time available to me I can demonstrate that both of those propositions are false. Firstly, to suggest that the Government has failed to reply to the campaign of the Australian Mining Industry Council is simply to ignore the facts. Upon looking at the facts which are publicly available, it is quite clear that the Government has expressed its position clearly. 
The AMIC paper was drawn to my attention shortly before it was published. I immediately responded to it by writing to AMIC and suggesting, since AMIC was suggesting talks with me, that it hold that paper until we had the chance to have talks. I believe that there is much in that paper which should not have been published. It replied to me and said: 'Too late. We have arranged the distribution of it. But yes, we still want to talk to you as we originally requested '. As I understand it, AMIC's statement was actually issued on about 13 March. So AMIC made its public statement to the members of this Parliament and, I assume, to people outside this Parliament on that date. On 14 March, I issued a public statement on the AMIC paper. I think that I should read the statement to the Senate. It reads: 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Fred  Chaney, said today he was considering a paper on the Aboriginal Land Rights legislation released yesterday by the Australian Mining Industry Council. 
The paper seeks amendments to the Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act. 

 Senator Chaney drew attention to his statement of 24 January 1 979 in which he emphasised that there would be no change to the general principles of the Land Rights Act. 
He said the Act was passed only after the most exhaustive consideration of its principles and effects. 
The legislation derives directly from the recommendations of the Royal Commission into Aboriginal Land Rights conducted by  Mr Justice  A. E. Woodward in 1973 and 1974 which were accepted by all major political parties ', the Minister said. 

 Senator Chaney said that when the Bill was introduced the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner  invited public comment on it before there was further debate in Parliament. 
Representations were made by the Australian Mining Industry Council and others and an independent person was appointed to assess them and recommend to the Government any changes which should be made to the Bill. 

 Senator Chaney said the Australian Mining Industry Council had made strong representations both before and after the Act was passed. 
Some parts of the mining industry seemed reluctant to accept that Aboriginals had to be considered and consulted, just as some pans of the industry were opposed to the protection given to farmers under the WA Mining Act. 
Mining is important to Australia',  Senator Chaney  said,  but it is important to give some consideration to the Aboriginal people who have been pushed around for so long. ' 
That is what I said on the day after the statement was released by AMIC. I would have thought that it left little room for doubt as to the Government's attitude. My statement was reasonably widely reported. It referred to a statement issued by me in January. Honourable senators will remember that in January there was a front page story in the  Australian  newspaper which suggested that there would be a substantial revision of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act to reduce the protection against mining on Aboriginal land. I am sure that many honourable senators opposite with an interest in Aboriginal affairs would have read that article and would have been concerned by it. I remind the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a Press conference on that day or the following day reiterated the Government's support for the principles of the land rights legislation. I issued a Press release on 24 January stating that, and pointing out that I would be meeting certain leading Aboriginal people in Canberra at that time, including Galarrwuy Yunupingu, to reassure them about the Government's intentions. 
I do not believe that there is anything on the public record which would leave any room for doubt in people 's minds as to our support for the principles of the Act which we passed in 1976 and which all parties supported. It is worth remembering that in 1976-1 think it was in 
May- we tabled the legislation and sought public comment on it. The mining provisions of the Bill were strengthened post-May 1976 and before the passage of the Bill in the Budget session of that year. After hearing further public comment the Government strengthened the protective mining provisions in the Act. I think it is important to see what AMIC has done as part of the on-going debate in Australia on the question of land rights which is still a live issue. Aboriginals are still seeking land rights in some States additional to those given to them by the State governments which have constitutional control over the land. It is important that the public debate should proceed in a way which increases the opportunities and possibilities for Aboriginal people to obtain additional land rights. I think that this Government has had a very constructive role in doing that. 
It could be asked how far we ought to go in involving ourselves in the public debate on land rights, both Commonwealth and State. At times I have had questions in my own mind. For example, the AMIC paper essentially goes over old ground. It has largely been received critically by the media and has been described as a rehash of what has been debated for some years. To what extent does the Government keep publicly debating those issues over and over again? It is a matter of judgment. I was very pleased at the general media response to the AMIC paper when it was issued. The response was positive and in the interests of the Aboriginals, which the Government wishes to assist. That does not mean that the Government does nothing more. I draw the attention of honourable senators to what we have been trying to do. Contrary to what has been said in the Senate about the failure of the Government to reply to campaigns, the Government has been trying to explain to the Australian public what land rights are about and why they ought to be advanced. 
I have a heap of papers which I propose to table. They are available to honourable senators to examine if they are really interested. I suspect that very few of the honourable senators who promoted this debate and who stood to support its coming forward will take the trouble to do so. I refer honourable senators to the pamphlet which was issued by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, my Department, on the Aboriginal land rights legislation. It is a simple, straightforward explanation of what we are trying to achieve for the Aboriginal people in this field. Was that pamphlet left rotting in pigeonholes? Was it simply a token pamphlet? It was not. It was distributed to the general public through the  Northern Territory News.  It was slipped into copies of that newspaper and distributed in Alice Springs. It has been made available in communities and in DAA area and regional offices. To the extent possible we have tried to ensure that it has a wide distribution. I do not pretend that it has been perfect but it has been a substantial effort. 
I draw the Senate's attention to certain fact sheets on Aboriginal land rights issued by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. These were distributed to the Press Gallery and parliamentarians. They are widely available in the Northern Territory through DAA offices and to people on request. They are dated October 1978, November 1978 and January 1979. They all try to advance the propositions with which the Senate is supposedly concerned. In the October 1978 paper there are specific sections entitled Minerals' and 'Consent Provisions of the Act'. In part the paper states:   . . in taking account of the Aboriginal 's deep spiritual attachment to the land and recognising their prior occupation of the Australian continent over a period of more than 40,000 years, the Aboriginal Land Rights (NT) Act gives Aboriginals the right to refuse prospecting or mining on their land if they do not want it. 
The exception to that principle to which  Senator Cavanagh  referred is that the mining tenements which were in existence at the time the land became Aboriginal land have been honoured. No more than that has happened. Even those tenements are subject to agreements being completed with the Aboriginal owners or with the land councils on behalf of the Aboriginal owners. I draw the attention of all honourable senators to a background paper on land rights for Australian Aboriginals in the Northern Territory produced by the Australian Information Service and distributed to the media in Australia and overseas. I draw the Senate's attention to the series of articles written by my predecessor, the Honourable Ian Viner, and published in the  Northern Territory News.  They go into the whole area of land rights and all the difficult areas which have caused public concern and opposition to land rights. I believe that those articles represent a very good attempt to explain this area to those who do not yet understand it. I am pleased to advise the Senate that I have authorised the reprinting of those articles in booklet form so that they will be readily available to students and the general public. I also advise the Senate that the departmental publication  Aboriginal News  which is currently being prepared and which deals with land rights will be  distributedinJune. 
I table those papers and offer them to honourable senators as some indication of the Government 's concern that we should be able to get the idea and principles of land rights across to the general public. They are a practical means of countering the anti-land rights campaigns which certainly are mounted by people such as those in the mining industry. I point out to honourable senators opposite that in a democratic country people are entitled to mount such campaigns. If they are inaccurate we should certainly counter those inaccuracies but people are entitled to have a variety of views. We are all in the business of trying to ensure that our view is the majority view and that the public will support it. In regard to land rights we have had near unanimity in the Parliament. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that if we wish to promote Aboriginal land rights further in this country we should deal with the matter as positively as possible and not simply say: 'Look at the Government selling out land rights.' Nothing could be further from the truth. 
I have dealt with the first part of the motion which states that the Government has failed to reply to the campaign of the mining industry. I have told the Senate about the public action of this Government in regard to land rights. As I hinted in my earlier comments, I have also had some discussions with AMIC since its paper was issued. Earlier this week I spent about 1 hours with senior participants in AMIC discussing the land rights legislation. I can only say to the Senate that the message which I have given in my private dealings both with mining companies and with AMIC has been the same message I have been stating publicly. Let me say that my public message has always included the element which I should mention to the Senate, namely, that if anyone comes forward and tells me that something is not working or cannot work in the Aboriginal land rights legislation, I will be ready to examine the matter. That is the case if Aborigines come to me as they have. I will be putting legislation to the Senate in either this session or the next session to introduce amendments that have been requested by the Aboriginal land councils as being required for the practical operation of the Act. I have told representatives of the mining companies that if they come to me and say: 'Here is a practical difficulty', I will discuss that practical difficulty with the Aboriginal people, I will consult with the land councils and I will examine those matters on their merits. I have no hesitation in taking that stance and I believe it is the only responsible stance for the Govern- 
I submit that the members of the public ought to know this Government's position on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act in light of the public statements the Government has made. I regret it if any of the members of the public are confused by the negative statements which are made by the Opposition. The Senate will be aware that recently public surveys showed that a majority of the Australian people support the concept of land rights and Aboriginal people having a control over mining on Aboriginal reserves. We have a Government position and a public position. I think that, in that sense, the first half of this motion is quite clearly nonsense. 
I will now deal with the second part of the motion which suggests that in some way I have made a deal which reduces or imposes restrictions on Aboriginal control of Aboriginal lands granted under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. We took a lot of trouble preparing the Press release that has been quoted by  Senator Cavanagh  because it was drawn up following several days of discussions. I had discussions with the representatives of the land councils. I had separate discussions with the Northern Territory Government. The land councils and the Northern Territory Government had separate discussions- that is, discussions at which I was not present. Finally, we met together and tried to deal with some of these problems that have been bedevilling not only the operation of land rights in the Northern Territory but also community relations as a whole in the Northern Territory. Honourable senators opposite may think that it is positive to promote disunity within the community but I do not. I give notice to the Senate that I will try to deal with the problems of land rights and Aboriginals in a co-operative way seeking agreement between parties whenever that is possible. I am pleased to say that after days of discussions in the Northern Territory, it became apparent that agreement was possible in a number of respects- agreement in a way which did not diminish the rights of the Aboriginal people but which removed some of the thorns which have been getting in the path of progress. 
I wish to respond to  Senator Cavanagh  's complaints about the possibility of coercion and that there might be something wrong with this proposal for an agreement. I simply direct the attention of the honourable senator and the Senate to paragraphs (d) and (e) on page 2 of the agreement which, I think, make it quite clear that there has been no attempt to be smart or shifty or to pull the wool over anybody's eyes. Paragraph (d) states: 
This suggested solution is subject to the consents of the Land Councils and to closer examination by the legal advisers to all the interested parties. The Commonwealth Government would need to agree to amend the Act. 
I acknowledge that this sort of agreement needs to be examined terribly carefully but I can assure the Senate that it was entered into terribly carefully. That meeting was attended not only by the people who have put their names to that agreement but also by many of their advisers, including two of the legal advisers to the land councils, Geoff Eames who would be known to many honourable senators opposite and another solicitor from Darwin,  Mr Tietzel.  This document was carefully discussed by all the parties before it was issued, it was amended by the parties before it was issued and I believe it represents the general agreement of those people. It is not a final agreement because those parties did not have the power to agree to a final solution. I did not have the power to commit the Government to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. Let me draw the attention of honourable senators also to paragraph (e) which gives the lie to one of the basic points made by  Senator Cavanagh  in his speech and in his motion. The basic point is that we have imposed restrictions on Aboriginal control of Aboriginal land. Paragraph (e) states: 
This arrangement is intended to preserve the existing rights of the parties. 
In other words we sought and achieved a solution which did not change the legal rights of the Aboriginal owners or the legal position of anybody else. All it did was to remove the impediment which had been put up against the registration of those deeds. How did we do that? It is quite simple. In fact, it is explained in this document which I think ought to be incorporated in  Hansard  during the course of this debate in case those of us who debate it do not make the position clear. The problem is that at the moment the Act requires that the title should exclude roads by specific description. In other words, if it was desired to take out a road over which the public had a right of way, that road must be specifically described in the title. As the Press release points out, certain roads were excluded in that way. There happens to be a difference of opinion, as the Press release also sets out, as to what other roads ought to be excluded. That is a matter which ultimately might have to be argued out in the courts. But all we have done is to suggest that the requirement of a specific description of the road should be taken out of the agreement and that the general exclusion which exists in the 
Act- that is, that roads over which the public have a right of way are excluded- should be included. 
The fact of the matter is that the Aboriginal people and the Northern Territory Government seem to believe that once the deeds are registered they can agree what ought to be the position in respect of roads. That may or may not be possible. That lies in the future. But if this agreement is carried through and there is, subsequently, a dispute about whether a road ought to be in or out of the title, the parties will be just as free to litigate that point as they are now. The Government has made this arrangement with those parties in the belief not only that it can do so without affecting the legal rights of the Aboriginal people but also that it will enable the parties to talk together and to arrive at arrangements that will be suitable to them all. That, I think, is something we should all wish to see. 

 Senator Cavanagh mentioned another matter to which I need to respond. He suggested in his speech that because the titles had not been registered, the Aboriginal people did not have their land. Let me say that I have assured the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory on several visits that that is not the case. Their own legal advisers have joined me in that assurance. The Act provides that the title to land is granted through the issue of these title deeds. Those deeds have been issued to the people and that means they are the owners of that land. Quite clearly, the Aboriginal people also want those titles to be registered and the Commonwealth joins them in that. But the fact of the matter is that the Aboriginal people do own those lands. They have title to them and all we have a dispute about is whether they will be registered under Northern Territory law. This agreement if carried through will enable that dispute to be brought to an end. I might say that I have been advised by one land council that it accepts the agreement that was entered into. I am still waiting for advice from the other two. How long it will take them to advise me of that I do not know. 
We had a situation in which the parties in the Northern Territory were at loggerheads. There is a real difference of opinion between the Northern Territory Government, the land councils and the Commonwealth Government about the need for roads to be vested in the Northern Territory Government. That is the substantial dispute between us. But that dispute is one which both the Aboriginals I have spoken to and the Northern Territory Government believe can be settled on a case by case basis. They believe that when they get down to talking about actual roads, the position will be all right. This agreement will give them an opportunity to do that without having lost the legal rights that they had before it was entered into. 
The only point that might raise some query in people's minds is that embodied in paragraph (c) on page 2 of the Press release. That talks about the passing of legislation restricting the use of roads traversing Aboriginal land by a system of permits similar to the permit system created by the Aboriginal Lands Act, provided that there would be a right of appeal by an unsuccessful applicant to the Administrator in Council. 
That paragraph is in there because, in the event that a particular road was found to be one that was open to the public under the terms of the Act, and therefore one which was excluded from Aboriginal land, we could have a situation in which there was no control of passage over that road, even though it was one which provided access to Aboriginal land. It was included to protect those roads which are public, roads which at the moment can be traversed without permit. It represents a necessary safeguard for the future of Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory and is quite positive. 
Reference also has been made to the other matters that are dealt with in the Press release. The land claims of the Borroloola people have been a source of concern to them since  Mr Justice  Toohey recommended the granting of only part of their claim. In the week that preceded the issuance of this Press release we saw the beginning of what I would regard as really constructive discussions, again between the Northern Territory Government, and the relevant land council and the local Borroloola community council. I am advised that those discussions, which have continued since, are proceeding in a most satisfactory manner; that once again we have a real prospect of the Aboriginal people concerned and the Northern Territory Government moving in agreement to obtain what both parties want. 
I believe that the Opposition ought to be encouraging that son of arrangement rather than discouraging it, as  Senator Cavanagh  appeared to be doing in his speech. I assure the Senate that the people who are taking part in these discussions have the benefit of the appropriate professional assistance. Their interests are being protected; they are aware of what they are doing and why they are doing it. This represents a really positive development in the Northern Territory. 
The extension of town sites was also the subject of discussion between the Northern Territory Government and myself and the land councils and myself and I believe that the Press release adequately summarises the position. No further extensions are in contemplation and those made to date are to be discussed by the parties who are involved and concerned. I believe we must wait to see what the results of those discussions will be. 
The statement made in the Press release on the right of resumption simply confirms the point that I made earlier, which flies in the face of one of  Senator Cavanagh  's assertions. The Northern Territory Government has raised with me its problem that it has not the power to resume Aboriginal land. I have told it that at this stage I do not wish to contemplate an amendment to that section; that it should use the existing provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act to obtain land for such purposes. That means that it should seek a surrender of land from the Land Trust; that it must follow the provision of the Act, which provides not for resumption but for negotiation, so that it can be seen that in the common interest land ought to be provided for public purposes. 
I regard many members of the Opposition as having a sincere and long-held interest in Aboriginal affairs. I expect that they will often be critical of what we are trying to do and that that criticism will be extremely valuable, but in this case they have put forward views which are not sustainable on the facts. 
The Government's commitment to the basic principles of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act is clear. It has been expressed by the head of the Government and by me, speaking as the responsible Minister. We have tried to get out the story of land rights and, in the interests of the Aboriginal people and of the general community, we will continue to do so. The Senate has my commitment on those propositions and I hope that, if the Opposition does not see fit to withdraw the motion, the Senate will reject it. 
Finally, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Press release in question. That will make the debate a lot more understandable to anyone reading it. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Joint Statement by the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, Paul Everingham, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Fred  Chaney,  Chairman  of the Northern Land 
Council,  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu,  Chairman  of the Central Land Council,  Mr Wemen  Rubuntja, and  Chairman  of the Tiwi Land Council,  Mr Cyril  Rioli 
Over the last few days discussions have been held between the Land Councils and the Northern Territory Government, and the Land Councils and the Commonwealth Minister. Today the three Land Councils met with the Northern Territory Chief Minister and the Commonwealth Minister. 
1 ) Registration of Titles: 
The dispute between the Northern Territory, the Commonwealth and the Land Councils is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has prepared deeds of grant to land trusts in respect of the land described in Schedule 1 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
Except in the cases of Delissaville, Yuendumu, Alligator Rivers No. 1, Beswick, Jay Creek and Woolwonga, roads over which the public had a right of way (if any) at the time of the grants have not been excluded from the deeds. 
Section 3(5) of the Act provides that a description of the land in Schedule 1 shall be deemed not to include any land on which there was, at the commencement of the section, a road over which the public had a right of way. 
Section 12 (3) of the Act provides that a deed of grant shall identify any land on which there is, at the time of the grant, a road over which the public has right of way and shall be expressed to exclude such land from the grant. 
It is the view of the Commonwealth and the Land Councils that there were no roads which needed to be excluded from the grants, with the exception of the grants named in (b) above.  (0  It is the view of the Government of the Northern Terri tory that there were a number of roads which were roads over which the public had a right of way at the material time and which, therefore, should have been excluded from the grants. 
A suggested solution to the problem is as follows: 
The deeds be amended so as to specifically exclude, in general terms, roads over which the public has a right of way and any issue as to which roads fall within that description can be resolved after the deeds of grant have been registered in that amended form. 
In view of the requirement in Section 12(3) (a) that the deeds of grant should identify the roads, an amendment to the Act will be necessary to enable the deeds to provide that roads over which the public has a right of way shall be excluded from the titles, without the necessity for the roads to be specifically identified. A suggested amended section 12(3) would read as follows: "A deed of grant under this section shall be expressed to exclude from the grant any land on which there is at the time of the grant a road over which the public has a right of way and it shall not be necessary for the deed to identify any such land." 
The Government of the Northern Territory would pass legislation restricting the use of roads traversing Aboriginal land by a system of permits similar to the permit system created by the Aboriginal Lands Act, provided that there would be a right of appeal by an unsuccessful applicant to the Administrator in Council. 
This suggested solution is subject to the consents of the Land Councils and to closer examination by the legal advisers to all the interested parties. The Commonwealth Government would need to agree to amend the Act. 
This arrangement is intended to preserve the existing rights of the parties. 
Land Claims by Borroloola People: 
The Northern Territory Government has put down a framework for discussions between it and the Northern Land Council and the Borroloola Council which it is hoped will lead to agreement on proposals which can be put to both the Commonwealth Government and Mt Isa Mines. These proposals will involve, among other considerations, provision for essential town, transport and port services for the area with provision being made for additional land for the Borroloola people. Pending the outcome of these talks the Commonwealth is to hold action with respect to the recommendation of the Land Commissioner in respect to Borroola Common. The Commonwealth will at the request of the Borroloola Council investigate whether titles can be issued to the islands which were recommended by the Land Commissioner pending resolution of the other matters. 
Extension of Town Sites: 
The Northern Territory Government indicated that it had no further extensions in contemplation within the period of the land freeze. The only exception to this would be arrangements relating to the McArthur River development which are subject to the discussions mentioned in paragraph 2. The Northern Territory Government is to discuss with the Land Councils the extensions made to Darwin, Alice Springs, Tennant Creek and Katherine with particular reference to land claims which may be affected. 
Right of Resumption: 
The Northern Territory Government has raised with the Commonwealth its wish to have the power to resume Aboriginal land for public purposes.  Senator Chaney  has requested the Northern Territory Government to use the existing provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act to obtain land for such purposes. 
The Northern Territory Government has raised with the Commonwealth Minister the concern about the conversion of pastoral leases and other leasehold interests held by Aboriginals to Aboriginal land subject to the Commonwealth Act.  Senator Chaney  agreed this posed problems for the Territory and possibly those Aboriginals who have taken leases as pastoralists not as traditional owners. He undertook to have the matter examined after which he will have further discussions with the Northern Territory Government and the Land Councils. 
Darwin, N.T. 17 March 1979 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) To enable the ABC to reach the required staff ceilings by 30 September it was necessary to leave vacant some positions in Radio Australia resulting in staff reductions in the Public Affairs and English sections, with a consequential effect on program output. 
The delay in restoring the Cox Peninsula station has meant that Radio Australia has not had the transmitter power to compete effectively against the major international services broadcasting to the Asian region. 
Telecom Australia's latest analysis of Radio Australia monitoring reports for the March to May 1978 schedule show the following: 
With respect to interference, Radio Australia's broadcasts were unintelligible at certain periods of every day in each of the target areas and poor at certain periods of every day. 
Example: Broadcasts to the prime target country, Indonesia, were unintelligible for 1 1 per cent of every day and poor for 28 per cent. The most frequent unintelligible period was at peak evening listening time, (ii) As to signal strength, Radio Australia's signal every day of the period was overall less than 50 per cent effective and not effective at all at peak listening times. 
Work has commenced on restoring one only of the aerials at Darwin (Cox Peninsula). Options for the scheduling of the major elements of the reconstruction program at Cox Peninsula including replacement of the other aerial facilities are presently being considered. 
The transmitters at Cox Peninsula are not fully serviceable but restoration work has commenced, although the restoration of the transmitters is not a critical element in the total reconstruction program. Restoration of the one aerial referred to in (2) will make available one transmitter on a restricted unscheduled basis in late 1979. 
Radio Australia would again reach audiences in South East Asia with an adequate signal. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) To provide the information sought could breach the confidentiality of the sales made to the various State and Local Government authorities and to private buyers. All sales were made in accordance with normal Government policy which, unless the Minister for Administrative Services determines otherwise, is to dispose of property surplus to Commonwealth requirements in the following order of priority: 
sale to former owners; 
sale to the State Government; 
sale to Local Government; 
sale to the public. 
Summary sales information based on an analysis of my Department's records is provided in the following tables: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The lower STD charges introduced from 26 November 1978 also apply to manually connected calls in all instances  whereSTDisnotavailable. 
Trunk calls originated by subscribers served by noncontinuous exchanges which close before 10.00 p.m. on week days are now charged at the Economy Rate for the last hour each day Monday to Friday inclusive, and at the Night Rate for at least the second last hour that the exchange is open for business, depending on the actual closing time. For example, at exchanges closing at 6.00 p.m., the Economy Rate applies on calls made between5.00 p.m. and 6.00 p.m. and the Night Rate on calls originated between 4.00 p.m. and5.00 p.m. Subscribers to exchanges closing at 9.00 p.m. pay the Economy Rate on calls between 8.00 p.m. and 9.00 p.m. and can take advantage of the Night Rate on calls between 6.00 p.m. and 8.00 p.m. Calls originated at all non-continuous exchanges on Saturdays are charged at the Intermediate (Sunday) Rate during the scheduled hours, a concession introducedfrom1Septemberlast. 
-On 19 October 1978,  Senator Ryan  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and refer to an article, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday, written by Isabel Lukas, the ethnic affairs reporter for that newspaper. It claims that the Special Broadcasting Service is considering a major reorganisation of ethnic radio which could involve the dismissal of about 400 broadcasters, coordinators and contributors in Sydney and Melbourne: I ask the Minister Is the sacking of these 400 people intended by the Special Broadcasting Service? If so, why is it so? What is the intention of the Government in regard to ethnic community participation in the future administration of the Special Broadcasting Service, in the appointment of coordinators for the service and in the development of programming policy by the Special Broadcasting Service. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Procedures relating to the selection and recruitment of broadcasters and coordinators by the Special Broadcasting Service have yet to be determined. Consultations with interested parties are proceeding, and it is hoped that an announcement on this matter will be made shortly. 
-On 21 November 1978  Senator Button  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 

 Mr President, I ask a supplementary question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will the Minister consult with his colleague in another place and indicate to the Senate at a later stage what is the lead time in program making in the Australian Broadcasting Commission following the provision of extra funds for program making? That is to say, how long does the provision of extra funds or the absence of funds take to have effect on the infrastructure of program making in the ABC? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has indicated that it plans its program output in respect of initial estimates considered alongside the appropriation made available to it in the Budget. 
The lead time in program making, therefore, will depend upon an indication of the exact amount of additional funds to be made available, the time of the year at which the funds will be forthcoming and the type of program to be made. 
-On 23 November 1978,  Senator Ryan  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It relates to the proposed ethnic television service that is planned to start in a pilot form in January 1979. Will all programs on ethnic television be made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission or will private production companies be involved? Will there be any commercial advertising on ethnic television during the pilot period? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is intended that the pilot ethnic television service to be provided through the facilities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will present programs which may be produced by the ABC, local production companies, or purChased from overseas sources. There will be no commercial advertising on ethnic television during the pilot period. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) and (2) An analysis of the accounting records of the Department of Administrative Services indicates that the following expenditures were incurred in respect of the operations of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation, in addition to the amount of $500,000 mentioned by the honourable senator: 
Honourable senators will not be surprised when I say that I have not seen the report in the  Australian Financial Review  indicating that Qantas Airways Ltd, in its annual report to March of this year, showed a higher figure than previously provided for doubtful debts. I am advised that Qantas has not yet produced its annual report for 1978-79. Its accounting period ends on 31 March and as that was only last week it is perhaps not surprising that the report is not yet out. 

 - Senator Hamer was quoting from the  Australian Financial Review.  He made that clear in his question. 
I always enjoy  Senator McAuliffe  's interjections but I do wish that he would listen. I started my answer by saying that I had not seen the report to which  Senator Hamer  referred. In any event what will be in the Qantas annual report for the period ending 3 1 March 1979 is not, at this stage, known to me. I can tell the honourable senator that Qantas, in its 1977-78 annual report, which was tabled in the Budget session last year, showed a provision for doubtful debts of $2.457m, compared with $ 1.090m for the previous year. There has been a considerable increase in the provision for doubtful debts. One can assume that Qantas took account of the AUS situation which was known at the time in making a provision for doubtful debts. But there is no indication in those accounts that action has been taken to write off the debt. It was shown simply as a doubtful debt. The report of Trans-Australia Airlines for 1977-78 is expected to be tabled in the next few weeks. Again, one would expect it to reflect the position with respect to AUS. I am not able to say precisely what is that position. 
I think that the dreadful events of yesterday do show that effective measures can be mounted in the face of the unexpected, and already there has been a good deal of public comment about that.  Senator Mason  has raised the particular question of the establishment at airports. I can only say that I will refer the matter to both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Administrative Services and get some further response for the honourable senator. 
I have little doubt that the Government would be concerned at the figure that  Senator Watson  has mentioned. It is a large amount of money. I do not have information on the particular matter of ships raised by the honourable senator, but I will refer both the information and the question to the Minister for Transport and seek a detailed response for the honourable senator. 
I am very pleased to be asked this question. I have just come across some newspaper clippings that indicate that the  Canberra Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  have reports which are headed respectively: Whites "stole" title to Ayers Rock' and Government accused of stealing NT Land'. I understand that those reports are based on statements made following the decision by  Mr Justice  Toohey to exclude Ayers Rock- 
I assume that the question is asking whether  Mr Nixon  has had a chance to consider these reports. Certainly 1 have not. The matters which  Senator Bishop  has raised are substantial and important ones. I will ask  Mr Nixon  to give a reply. 
-The Aboriginal Legal Service centred at Alice Springs is one of a number of legal services which have made representations to me seeking additional funds. My recollection is that some additional funds have been made available. However, I would have to check that and let the honourable senator know, because there are a number of these cases. I think that in regard to the Alice Springs Aboriginal Legal Service there was an unexpected case of considerable magnitude which threw its budget out. 
I think it may be on now. I will seek the details and give the honourable senator a reply, rather than guess at it. 
Earlier today  Senator Keeffe  asked me about the Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Service. I am now able to confirm that it is proposed to make additional funds available to that Service this financial year. This is dependent on the Senate and the House of Representatives considering Additional Estimates, but I do not consider that it will be a problem. I do not expect that the additional funds will provide all that has been requested by that Service, but supplementary funds of about $20,000 will be made available. 
-On 29 March 1979  Senator Baume  asked me about articles which appeared in the  Sun-Herald  and which related to the use of marihuana. He asked whether the Government would relate the appearance of such articles to the responsibilities of a group such as the Fairfax group which is a licensee in the electronic communications media. I was advised by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that, so far as the Broadcasting and Television Act is concerned, there is no nexus between publishing and broadcasting. The Broadcasting and Television Act and the program standards are the basis for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's consideration of broadcasting licensees' responsibilities. 
-One should ask the Holy Ghost to do that. 
I will seek an answer. 
by leave- I agree that it is important that answers should be short and that information which is really appropriate to a statement should be given in that form. In the instant case I would simply say to the Senate that it was a matter that came up at very short notice, which I thought would give rise to some questions and which, under the rules that normally apply to statements, I do not think could have been provided in the Senate by way of a statement today with adequate notice being given to the Opposition. I simply say that by way of explanation. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) An analysis of the accounting records of the Department of Administrative Services indicates that the cost to the Commonwealth of conducting the Queen's Silver Jubilee Appeal to 2 1 February 1 979 was $395,685. 
There is no outstanding amount known to the Department of Administrative Services. 
The amount received in the capital fund ofthe Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Trust for Young Australians from the inception of the Appeal until 21 February 1979 was $5,392,998. This sum includes the Commonwealth Government's direct contribution of $2,000,000 to the Appeal. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Payments in respect ofthe Royal Silver Jubilee Train were made from the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Programme Trust Account. 
The Silver Jubilee Commemorative Programme Trust Account was established by the Treasurer's approval under 
Section 62a of the Audit Act in order to record all revenue received and expenditure incurred on the program of events arranged by the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation to celebrate the Queen's Silver Jubilee Year. 
Amounts of $75,000 under Division 130/3/29 in 1976-77 and $425,000 under Division 130/3/13 in 1977-78 were appropriated for payment to the credit of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Programme Trust Account. Other revenue, e.g. from admission charges, sale of catalogues, et cetera, was credited to the trust account and direct costs of the program events were paid from the trust account. As at 26 February 1979, total revenue received (including the appropriation of $500,000) amounted to $1,598,004.40 and total expenditure amounted to $ 1 , 576,6 1 1.6 1 
In answering Question No. 130 on 26 September 1978 it was stated that $ 146,84 1 had been paid to Queensland Railways, Victorian Railways, Australian National Railways and Western Australian Government Railways. Subsequent investigations have revealed that this amount was obtained by adding actual payments to Australian National Railways and Western Australian Government Railways and estimated payments to Queensland Railways and Victorian Railways. Actual payments to these railway organisations in fact amounted to $142,435. In addition to the previously mentioned amount of $250,000, other payments totalling $33,376 were made to the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales. 
Total payments to State and National Railways systems in respect of the Silver Jubilee Exhibition Train amounted to $425,811. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) and (2 ) Special dedicated telephone services were provided at: 

 Mr Miller's residence, Centennial Park, NSW; 

 Mr Miller's offices initially at Kings Gate and subsequently at Westfield Towers; and 

 Mr Miller's residence, Manilla, NSW. 
Telephone accounts submitted to the Department of Administrative Services by  Mr Harry  M. Miller in respect of the positions referred to are as follows: 
For the period 28 February 1977 to 31 May 1978 as Chairman, Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation- $ 1 9,77 1 . 
For the period 1 June 1978 to 16 March 1979 as Special Adviser, Bureau of International Exhibitions and Special Adviser, Bicentenary Celebrations-$ 10,427. 
All accounts received in respect of the periods mentioned above have been paid, being charged against departmental votes as follows: 1976- 77-Division 130/3/26- $675 1977- 78-Division 130/3/12- $16,022 1978- 79-Division 130/3/ 12- $10,427; Division 130/3/13- $3,074. 
In respect of accounts relating to the period of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation a significant proportion of the total amount would relate to overseas calls but it is not possible to specify an exact proportion from the records available. In respect of  Mr Miller's  tasks as Special Adviser the proportion would be less, but again the records do not enable the precise proportion to be established. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The curfew at Brisbane Airport was not broken during the period 1 January 1979 to 28 February 1979. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The times of arrival and departure were: 15 December- 11.01, 11.12, 11.32, 11.38, 11.56; 17 December- 11.39; 18 December-1 1.15, 12.05 a.m.; 19 December- 12.02 a.m., 1.06 a.m.; 20 December- 1 1.32, 11.33, 12.10 a.m.; 21 December- 1 1.03, 11.14, 11.24, 11.29; 22 December-1 1.01, 11.08, 11.12, 11.14, 11.16, 11.17,11.19,11.23. 
There were only two in-curfew jet movements on night of 19 December, not three as shown in the reply to Question No. 1141. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Twice. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 - Mr President, I should like to join other senators in paying tribute to the late  Sir David  Brand.  Sir David  was a most unusual politician. I think it would be fair to say that he was respected by all his fellow Western Australians and regarded with affection by most. He was unusual in the warm relationship that existed between him and the  electorate that  he served. Like  Senator Durack,  I was active in the Liberal Party for most of  Sir David  's career and had a good deal to do with him. My closest contact with him was after he ceased to be Premier and became Leader of the Opposition in 1972, when I contested a by-election for a State seat and did a lot of campaigning with him. I have always remembered the extraordinary warmth of the reception that he received wherever we went in that electorate of Ascot. I noted that we received that warm reception from both those who were prepared to support us and those who were not. I think that was one of  Sir David  Brand 's valuable qualities. 
He had many qualities, of course- he had great ability- but the particular one I should like to leave on the record is that he had a sense of decency which was understood by the people who came in contact with him. I have always been attracted by the test which George Orwell placed on both governments and politicians when he required common decency of them. I believe that if that test was applied to  Sir David  Brand he would always come through in a most positive manner. He made politics a profession of which I think one could be proud. Perhaps few of us in politics can say that. I join other senators and the Senate itself in expressing sympathy to Lady Brand and to his family. I also express some gratitude that we had  Sir David  Brand and that he chose to serve his community in the way that he did. 
I have some information on this matter because honourable senators have expressed interest in it in the past. The recent publicity about test cricket will no doubt have interested many of their electors. My understanding is that there are still negotiations current between Channel 9 and other commercial stations about the transmission of cricket programs. It is thought that if those negotiations are successful there will be a relatively small number of viewers who will not have access to them. I understand that 2 to 4 per cent of actual sets will fall into this category. 

 - Senator Maunsell has just interjected that they are the people about whom he is concerned. They are also the people about whom other honourable senators who represent remote areas will be concerned. My understanding is that it has been suggested that if the negotiations with commercial stations are successful Channel 9 would be prepared to make the programs available free of charge to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in areas which cannot receive them on a commercial station. Therefore, on my understanding, the answer to the first part of  Senator Maunsell  's question is yes. I cannot give him a detailed answer to the second and third parts of his question, which related to the costs and the technical difficulties which might stand in the way of the ABC being able to take up that offer. 
I understand the last point the honourable senator made in his question that in the past the ABC has been accepted by people as being a source of access to national sporting events. No doubt a good deal of the high standing of the ABC in the eye of the public is related to the service which has been provided. I will refer the honourable senator's specific question about cost and technical difficulties to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who in turn will have to make inquiry of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In fact there are many air navigation regulations, but I assume that  Senator Baume  is referring to the regulation which concern the tariffs and conditions for the carriage of passengers and cargo on international airlines operating to and from Australia. That regulation was amended in April 1 976. If that is the one to which he refers, I can advise him that to date no prosecution has been instigated by the Department of Transport-- 
Yes, no prosecution has been instigated by the Department of Transport, although in 1978 a High Court action was brought against the Department by the Australian Union of Students following the investigation by the Department into the Union's activities, but the Court found on the action in favour of the Department. I am advised that continuing action is being taken by the Department in preventive enforcement, but it is expected that, as the new air arrangements for lower air fares are progressively introduced with other countries and as capacity is more aligned to actual demand, the opportunity for discriminatory practices in fact will diminish. 
-Senator Kilgariff very properly asked me and the Government to bear in mind that the people of the outback are often deprived of facilities which the more populous areas take for granted. That is certainly true in my own State of Western Australia. I know it is true in areas of Queensland and the Northern Territory in particular. The position with regard to the broadcasting of cricket in the Northern Territory may well be unique. For this reason I am sure that the Minister will certainly ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to examine the specific problems which relate to the Territory to see whether anything can be done. What precisely the position will be will not be known until the outcome of the discussions which are presently taking place between the commercial stations. I will pass on the question to  Mr Staley  and seek an approach to the ABC of the sort envisaged by the honourable senator's question. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  concerning the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, together with details of the Government's responses to the recommendations of the Committee's final report. 
I want to comment briefly on the matters raised by  Senator Colston  and  Senator Puplick. Senator Colston  spoke on the problems of the radio service at Thursday Island. He kindly concluded his remarks by saying that he did not expect or want answers tonight. I am happy to comply with that direction from  Senator Colston,  but I will of course refer the matters which he raised to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  to seek answers to the specific questions which he asked in the Senate tonight. 

 Senator Puplick raised serious questions about public participation in broadcasting and the public accountability of television stations. Many of the points which he raised are matters which I would also have to refer to  Mr Staley  for his consideration.  Senator Puplick,  in his comments, indicated that  Mr Staley-  I think in answer to questions in the House of Representativesindicated his own concern about some of the matters that  Senator Puplick  raised tonight. I merely comment that it is perhaps easy to forget that the implementation of Government policy on the concept of public accountability by broadcasters is a very new concept and new ground is being broken in this area. To some extent therefore we are witnessing a process of evolution. That evolution has been evidenced by the fact that there have been some changes in the procedures followed by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in the two major hearings in Adelaide and in Sydney. I understand from the Minister that the Tribunal will be trying further to clarify procedures which are to be followed in the Melbourne licence hearings which are the next hearings to be undertaken. 
It is far too late to try to match witticisms with  Senator Button, Mr President,  so I shall simply acknowledge that contribution to the debate and say that the Government is aware of the concern which has been expressed from a number of different quarters- by broadcasters, members of the public and people who are concerned about broadcasting generally- about the licence renewal hearings. These are matters which certainly are receiving attention from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Government. I shall commend  Senator Puplick  's speech to the Minister for his consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Tribunal conducted the public hearing into four applications received for the grant of a licence for a commercial broadcasting station to serve the Western Region in Sydney from 22 November to 1 December 1977 under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942. 
The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act 1977 (No. 160 of 1977) which was assented to on 10 November 1977 came into effect from1 January 1978. 
and (3) The public hearing did not conclude until 1 December 1977 and it is the normal procedure for the individual members of the Tribunal to study the transcript of the proceedings of the hearing prior to holding a meeting to make a decision on the grant of a licence. There was no significant delay in the Tribunal's announcing its decision which was made at a meeting of the Tribunal held on 2 January 1978. 
No. 
Qantas Airways Ltd: Flights over Syria  (Question No. 952) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is not an 'Agreement' as such between the Syrian Government and Qantas. The Syrian Government has granted Qantas a permit to overfly Syrian territory and land in Damascus. This permit was granted on February 26, 1970 and is renewable each year. Overflight is conditional upon landing once in each direction at Damascus. (2) From the then Director General of Civil Aviation. 
No. 
and (5) The then Director General of Civil Aviation was not aware of any Syrian restrictions. 
Yes. The Minister was notified in April 1970 of the permit granted to Qantas by the Syrian Government. 
January, 1952. (8 )QF 732, 31 March 1970. 
QF749, 30 March 1970. 
10) (a) As a service to passengers Qantas reservations staff were instructed to inform intending passengers of the Jewish faith that Syrian regulations were understood to refuse entry in transit to persons holding Israeli passports, Jewish passengers of any nationality and holders of passports valid for Israel or containing a visa for Israel. This instruction was based on information contained in the IATA Travel Information Manual (TIM) which as you will be aware from the Prime Minister's statement of 20 October 1978 has been repudiated by Syria. 
Indications such as name and requests for special (kosher) meals. 
) No. 
12) In the light of the answers given above to Question1, I do not feel that tabling of the documents requested would now serve any real purpose. The permit specifies only overflight and mandatory landing provisions applicable to Qantas Airways Ltd. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. However, TAA advises that the statement was incorrect as seating was freely available over the Christmas season. TAA further advise that the erroneous report arose from a misunderstanding whereby the word 'barely' was mistakenly substituted for the word 'freely'. 
) Yes; TAA considered that it was not necessary to bring this aircraft back into service as its fleet capacity was adequate to meet traffic demands. This is shown by the network passenger load factors achieved by TAA over the period; 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Qantas' Financial Directive is currently under review. When this review has been completed it is intended that the revised Financial Directive will be made public. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Both the domestic and international airlines pay air navigation charges on a monthly basis for every flight made within Australia. In addition, international airlines on overseas flights have to pay for each arrival and departure to and from an Australian airport. 
There arc also landing fees levied by some Australian local authorities at their own aerodromes but these charges are minor as compared with the air navigation charges. No international airline operates to an Australian airport that is locally owned. 
Dairy Projects Factory in Vietnam  (Question No. 1436) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am advised that the Commonwealth Police did not remove all  Dr White's  patient history cards, only those associated with the investigation then in hand. The  Deputy  Crown Solicitor has advised that medical record cards are not privileged documents. If seizure is warranted during a police investigation then due process must follow. 
I am further advised that the claim that the absence of the cards could have put a patient's life in jeopardy is without foundation because: 
1 ) legible copies of the cards were given to the doctor the next day; 
legible copies of background papers were given to the doctor within three days; 
the officer conducting the investigation undertook, and was in fact available, to return the cards and documentation immediately if an urgent medical necessity arose before copies could be made. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Mr Bruce Montgomery has been selected for appointment as State Co-ordination Officer in Tasmania and will be attached to the staff of the Minister for National Development, who has been nominated by the Prime Minister as having special responsibilities Tor Government Liaison in Tasmania. 
With respect to the specific points raised in the question: 
Although under the control of the Minister for National Development  Mr Montgomery  will also be responsible for assisting all Ministers in their dealings with matters affecting Tasmania and for keeping the Government in touch with public reaction to Government policies and programs. 
His appointment is being made to ensure the best possible communication and understanding between the Commonwealth and the Tasmanian Government, particularly in view of the special Commonwealth arrangement for assistance to Tasmania. 

 Mr Montgomery has had wide experience in media work and was considered the most suitable applicant. 
The salary of the position is $20,591-21,306. In addition, the occupant receives Ministerial Staff Allowance of $4,673 per annum but overtime is not payable. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As a result of discussions between the Northern Territory Government, the Federal Government, and the Aboriginal Land Councils in the Northern Territory, an undertaking has been given by the Northern Territory Government to consult with Aboriginal Land Councils regarding any land claims which may have been affected by the extension of town boundaries. With regard to Borroloola, the Northern Territory Government has deferred any action in relation to the declaration of a town area within the  Sir Edward  Pellew Group of Islands until such time as negotiations have been conducted with the Borroloola community. These negotiations have already commenced and the Federal Government is hopeful that these talks will lead to a situation which satisfies all the parties concerned. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Commonwealth Police operate their vehicles in two modes, viz: 
1 ) for plainclothes duty; 
for uniformed and general duty including diplomatic and consular duty. 
In December 1978 one of the vehicles used for plainclothes duly was also used intermittently for diplomatic and consular duties. In January 1979 it was fitted for fulltime use on such duties. The fact that Commonwealth number plates should then have been substituted for the Queensland plates was overlooked until the vehicle was serviced. The changeover occurred on 19 February 1979. 
see (a) above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Association 's concern is a matter of public record. 
No. Assurances that jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members would not be at risk have been given, as was made clear to the Senate by  Senator Chaney  's answer to a Question Without Notice from  Senator Baume  on 20 March 1 979  (Hansard  pages 726-7). 
Sec answer to (2). 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Undercurrent contracts, the only Commonwealth vehicles supplied for my Department's fleet with a broadcast radio as standard equipment arc the Ford LTDs used for Ministerial and VIP purposes. Radios are specifically excluded in departmental contracts for other vehicles and would be fitted only where there was a specially approved requirement. My Department did acquire some radio-equipped Ford vehicles, other than LTDs, when responsibility for the Canberra car pool was transferred from the Department of the Capital Territory in 1977. However, no action was taken to remove any ofthe radios from these cars. 
On 24 October 1978  Senator Keeffe  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether last Friday and Saturday the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio and television news programs ran an interview with a man who was said to he the leader of the Ku Klux Klan in Australia? Is it true that the man was not identified? Did he wear a cloak over his head? Did he make inflammatory statements about the Aborigines in the Northern Territory designed to aggravate farther the already tense situation that exists there? Is it the policy of the ABC news department to broadcast statements by unnamed and unidentifiable people which are designed to increase racial tension in Australia? Did the ABC give the man an undertaking not to identify him? Will the Minister ask his colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to confer with the General Manager of the ABC to ensure that practitioners of hatred in this country are not allowed to peddie their poison on news programs cloaked by a hood and anonymity? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The ABC New Service did broadcast part of an interview with a man in Darwin claiming to be the Australian leader of the Ku Klux Klan. The man's identity was known to the ABC's Darwin news staff. The man wore a white hood and was not identified, at his request. 
The ABC carefully weighed the question of anonymity against the justification for reporting what they considered to be a matter of public importance. It is not ABC policy to encourage racial tension and reports on this matter did not incorporate inflammatory statements about Aborigines. The man interviewed said his group would not engage in antiblack activities. The ABC considered that the formation of a Ku Klux Klan group in Darwin was news and its reporting to be a proper aspect of its news-gathering responsibilities. 
On 7 November 1978,  Senator Davidson  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
I draw attention to the repeated reports relating to the possible curtailment of country radio and television programs. Is it a fact that by the reported curtailments and cutbacks, programs such as  Country Hour  and  Horizon 5  face virtual extinction? Is the Minister aware that these daily extensive services provided by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to rural areas are not provided by any other agency? Will he make inquiries concerning these reports, recognising the importance of communications to rural areas, especially in Australia? Finally, will the Government confer with representatives of the ABC to ensure that these important social and information services are maintained? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The ABC has no plans to curtail the radio program  Country Hour  and all essential services on ABC radio for the rural community will continue to be broadcast regularly. 

 Horizon 5 will be replaced by a national weekly rural program of 45 minutes duration to be shown at noon on Sundays, starting in March 1979. The new program is being introduced in response to expressed audience needs obtained from audience research and viewer reaction. 
The ABC is very much aware of the importance of its service programs to the wider rural community and its rural service programs will continue to be high program priorities. 
On 15 November 1978,  Senator Townley  asked me the following question without notice: 
As booklets of stamps were a most convenient way of buying stamps when they were available and were philatelic items valued by collectors, most probably because the stamps often had portraits of Prime Ministers on them, will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to consider the reintroduction of stamps in booklet form? May I suggest that the booklets be of the value of $5. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The production of stamp booklets was discontinued in 1973 as a matter of economics. Because of increases in the price of postage, sales had dropped considerably and the cost of producing booklets was several times the cost of printing stamps in sheet form. The booklets did contain paid advertisements which offset to some extent the production costs involved. Because of the diminishing sales of booklets, however, advertisers withdrew their support and this resulted in a further increase in the net cost ofthe booklets. 
The machinery used by the Reserve Bank of Australia to manufacture the booklets was antiquated and was dismantled when production ceased. There is currently no machinery available in Australia which could produce stamp booklets. 
Australia Post has advised mc that for economic and marketing reasons the reintroduction of stamp booklets is not proposed at this stage. 
Telecom: Employment of Linemen in Training 
On 16 November 1978  Senator Harradine  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 1 preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by referring him to  Australian Government Gazette  No. 28 of 13 July 1978 wherein an examination was advertised for entry to the Telecommunications Commission as lineman in training in all States except Queensland. Is the Minister aware that quite a large number of applicants responded and that, insofar as Tasmania was concerned, the examination was held on 16 September, on the understanding that the top successful candidates would bc interviewed for the 12 jobs? 
Is the Minister aware that on 11 October 1978 before those interviews look place but after the examinations were held, the whole scheme was cancelled, ls the Minister aware of the fact that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has condemned the misleading advertising of private employers that leads to disillusionment amongst job applicants, and does that action ofthe Commission fall within that category? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The advertisement in question was placed in good faith in July 1978. Subsequently, a review ofthe likely trend in telecommunications needs in Tasmania combined with a change to a new staff structure approach which involved development of those already employed by Telecom and the need to operate as efficiently as practicable led to a cancellation of the intake. 
On 17 November 1978  Senator Townley  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications notice an article in the Sydney Press that indicated that the one-millionth subscriber in Sydney was given three phones at zero rental? Will the Minister say under what provision the Australian Telecommunications Commission is able to remit such a rental in those kinds of cases? Will he indicate to the Senate what number of subscribers will be necessary in all the dialling areas thoughout Australia before a free phone rental will be granted with particular reference to the 09 area and the 002 area? In other words, why should subscribers in Sydney bc at an advantage to subscribers in the rest of Australia. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
To mark the occasion of the one millionth telephone service in the Sydney telephone network, Telecom waived additional rental charges totalling $60.00 and installation fees in respect of two extension telephones forming part of a service applied for by a residential customer. The customer paid the standard connection fee and rental for the main telephone and normal call charges still apply. 
There is a precedent for such concessions by the Commission. Concessions have been made in the past when the Australian network reach the 4 million mark (subscriber located in Sydney) and in Queensland when the network reached 500,000. There has been no particular preference given to subscribers in Sydney. 
Section 1 10 of the Telecommunications Act provides the necessary authority for these concessions. 
On 8 March 1979  Senator Young  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the following question without notice: 
Has the Minister seen a Press report in which it is stated that for many reasons in the long term national interest the proposed petrochemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia should be built before any other suggested plant, including the all important reason of the balance of payments, as production at Redcliff would replace many products now imported, including caustic soda? I ask the Minister whether he has also seen reports that one of the competitors of Redcliff for the establishment of a petrochemical plant in Australia has'a major hand in the import of caustic soda necessary to meet the shortfall between local demand and supply' and that its proposed petrochemical plant would concentrate more on the production of plastics than on caustic soda. Is he aware that it is estimated that Redcliff would benefit Australia's balance of payments by an estimated $2,000m over the first ten years of its operations? Will these factors be taken into consideration if the Government does have any influence whatsoever where a petrochemical industry will be established? 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government believes that decisions on developments such as the petrochemical expansion proposed by Dow Chemical (Australia) Ltd at Redcliff are essentially matters for commercial judgement by the companies concerned. 
Companies when they are evaluating the possibility of investing in new petrochemicals and caustic soda capacity will undoubtedly take into account many factors in reaching the commercial decision on whether to proceed with the investment. 
Plant size and associated economies of scale while being important factors are not the only relevant considerations. Some other factors which would be recognised and evaluated include anticipated capacity utilization, market size, proximity to markets, environmental factors, transportation economies, plant location, feedstock price and availability, and the by-products utilization and inter-relationship with other chemical processing plants. 
The Loan Council for its part has approved a borrowing program to finance infrastructure for the project should it proceed. 
I will refer that question to the Minister and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
by leave- I wish to inform the Senate of the appointment by the Governor-General of the Distribution Commissioners responsible for the preparation of proposals for the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into electoral divisions. Following the determination of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, Western Australia is now entitled to 1 1 seats in the House of Representatives. The Commissioners for the distribution will be:  Mr B.  S. Nicholls, the Australian Electoral Officer for Western Australia as Chairman;  Mr J.  F. Morgan, the Surveyor-General for Western Australia; and  Mr F.  W. Statham, Regional Director, Department of Housing and Construction, Western Australia. 
The appointments were notified in the Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette  on 24 April 1979. Advertisements will shortly appear in the Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette  inviting suggestions in writing relating to the redistribution. These suggestions must be lodged with the Commissioners within 30 days of the date of the advertisement. Copies of the suggestions which are lodged with the Commissioners will be made available for perusal at the end of this period. The public may make comments in writing about the suggestions that have been lodged with the Commissioners during a further 14 days. I present the following paper: 
Appointment of Distribution Commissioners, State of Western Australia- Ministerial Statement, 2 May 1 979 and move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
-The Commonwealth Government has not made any recent assumption of responsibility for the supply of power and water in remote Aboriginal communities. In fact, the movement is somewhat the other way because on 1 July 1978 the Northern Territory Government became responsible for the provision of services of that sort in the Northern Territory, particularly the provision of power and water supplies and sewerage disposal systems for Aboriginal communities. The position differs a little from State to State, but fundamentally the provision of those services is a State government responsibility. Quite a lot of Commonwealth funding in the form of direct grants goes into assisting remote communities with the provision ofthese services. We see in the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs under the item Town management and public utilities' that the Commonwealth Government has a role in assisting the States to carry out their responsibilities. 
The Department is convening a meeting in Adelaide in the near future to discuss the upgrading of services in the north-west of South Australia and the central reserve areas of Western Australia. Quite a number of different departments will be represented at that meeting. They include the Commonwealth Department of Housing and Construction, the Northern Territory Department of Transport and Works, the South Australian Department of Public Buildings, the Western Australian Department of Public Works and the Western Australian State Energy Commission. In Western Australia we are presently negotiating for a fairly substantial takeover of power supplies by the State authority. The officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Housing and Construction went to Fregon on 27 March to assess requirements for the community's power supply. I understand that as a result of that visit the community proposes to purchase suitable equipment from proceeds of cattle sales and to seek subsequent reimbursement from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is hoped that those funds will be available next year for Fregon. 
I am not aware that in the United States of America the direct cost of selling stamps is 1 7c in the dollar. I cannot say whether the cost in Australia is comparable, but I will ask the Minister for a reply. 

 - Senator Bishop has asked a series of questions on this subject. I think a letter was sent to him in about mid-April with details as to what was proposed with respect to add-on fares and excursion fares. I am not able to give him the date which he seeks. I will seek it from  Mr Nixon. 
I am aware of the work of Professor Strehlow and that there is a collection of material which he put together during his lifetime and which is now in the possession of his widow. I think my colleague the Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for the area of government which has been dealing with this matter, lt could be related to some portion of the Australia Council or the Arts Board. I do not think there would be much point in referring this matter to my colleague unless he has some specific information on it. I know my own Department has been watching the negotiations that have taken place. I will seek the information that the honourable senator has requested. 
There are a number of areas where the Commonwealth is putting money into the Torres Strait area, but I know of no request for or promise of assistance with respect to mains electricity. 1 will have to make inquiries about that for the honourable senator and let him have a reply. 
With the range of $ 120m to $170m I would have to accept the honourable senator's statement that the figures are speculative. I will certainly seek to get a more definite figure than that $50m range which he has given us this afternoon. 
I think that around Australia there have been some recent examples of adjustment of air routes to meet the changing requirements of air traffic and so on. I had heard of the change which had been announced with respect to the Electra service which was provided along the Queensland coast by Ansett Airlines of Australia. My understanding is that Ansett has stated that it is suffering substantial losses on that service because of the low freight loadings southbound to Brisbane. It is apparently also a fact that there has been some additional competition on that route from outside the two-airline agreement in that Bush Pilots Airways Pty Ltd and Rundle Air Service carry freight along the coast on behalf of freight forwarders. It is not a simple question of a two-airline situation in that area, as I understand it. In any event, it is certainly understood by the Government that air freight is very important to the more remote parts of Australia. I will pass on the honourable senator's concern to the Minister for Transport who is, I understand, monitoring developments to see whether the Ansett withdrawal will leave an unsatisfied demand and, if that is the case, what practical steps can be taken to ensure that the demand is met. As the honourable senator is aware, there are other airlines in Queensland which are quite anxious to take up the services to some of these areas, and that may well be the best solution for Queensland people. I would not commit myself or the Government on that matter. 
Today I was asked a question by  Senator Archer  about the application by Bizjets to run a service from Essendon to Tasmania. I am advised that that application is current. The honourable senator specifically asked whether it was being looked at from just the Tasmanian Government point of view or from the points of view of the various interests involved. My advice from the Minister for Transport is that the application is being carefully examined from the points of view of all interested parties- the public, the Tasmanian authorities and the various airlines involved. The Minister expects a decision to be made shortly. 
-On 27 March  Senator Jessop  asked me a question about the proposals of the South Australian Government to legislate for certain land rights in South Australia. I gave a general reply and said that I would seek more detail for the honourable senator. In light of the nature of the information that was given in the question and the nature of the facts that have been provided to me, I should like to give that detail in the Senate. My advice is that the South Australian Government's proposals, which were referred to in the question and answer on 27 March, are to provide land for Aboriginals in the north-west corner of that State. It totals an area of 88,927 square kilometres or approximately 9 per cent of the State's land area. The proposal expressed in the Pitjantjatjara Land Rights Bill 1978 is to vest in fee simple in the Pitjantjatjara people, as a corporate body, the North- West Reserve and the pastoral blocks of Mimili, Ernabella, Indulkana and Kenmore Park. This will be in addition to other lands already provided to Aboriginals in South Australia, representing 0.5 per cent of land in the State. The proposed legislation provides also for claims to be heard by a tribunal in respect of land in which the Pitjantjatjara have a traditional interest. In considering such claims the tribunal would take into account, among other matters, the extent of the Aboriginal interest and the detriment to other persons, communities or interests. The non-nucleus lands, that is, the lands which are not specified in the Bill but which might conceivably come under such a claim, represent another 7 1 ,000 square kilometres or 7 per cent of South Australian land. 
As I indicated in my answer on 27 March, following the passage of our Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, the Commonwealth has encouraged the States to provide similar land rights for Aboriginal people. The Pitjantjatjara people have been particularly interested in acquiring land rights to traditional land extending across the South Australian, Western Australian and Northern Territory borders. A joint Commonwealth-State working party of senior officials has met several times since 1977 to discuss Pitjantjatjara land rights and associated matters. Those land and mining matters in the States are primarily the constitutional responsibility of State governments, but we have been taking that interest. 
The proposed South Australian legislation arose from the report of the State Pitjantjatjara Land Rights Working Party which was established in March 1977. Other major provisions of the legislation are the sharing of control over mining by both the Pitjantjatjara people and the State Government, Aboriginal control over access by non-Pitjantjatjara people, mining royalties to be paid to the Pitjantjatjara people and an elected Aboriginal executive of the Pitjantjatjara body corporate. 
The one thing that has been demonstrated tonight is that if the Government used its brutal numbers, which is the expression which has been used, we would have an extremely long analysis of it afterwards. At five to twelve at night I, for one, am very chastened by the experience of sitting and listening to all these speeches. I do not wish to go into the matter in enormous detail because I think  Senator Cavanagh  's point has been adequately met by  Senator Rae,  who said all the things I would have wished to say, and also to some extent by  Senator Grimes.  I gained the very clear impression from watching my colleague  Senator Baume  that he was trying to indicate to the Senate that it was not within his power to give an undertaking on behalf of senators other than himself. 
I am grateful to  Senator Georges.  It is a long time since I have heard an honourable senator say anything really pleasant or nice about an honourable senator. I am only sorry that it was about himself. I might say to  Senator Georges  that it was refreshing to hear a speech that was so much in the tradition of respect and courtesy for another. I believe that if the honourable senator could extend to his fellow senators the good wishes that he has for himself the whole Senate would function in a happier and more cheerful way. I should say that  Senator Grimes  ' reference to the South Australian senator has just let me off the hook. In the Senate recently he accused me of pomposity and I have lain awake at night worrying about that. I would just like to say that it is much less worrying now that I have his company. 
A more serious matter was raised by  Senator Coleman.  I have already apologised to the honourable senator for not being here to hear her comments about the problems relating to Aboriginal child health in Western Australia. My colleague  Senator Guilfoyle  was here and she, of course, represents the Minister for Health. She gave me some indication of the scope of the remarks that  Senator Coleman  made. I will read  Senator Coleman's  remarks in  Hansard  and follow them up. I would like to say, without wishing to diminish any concern that she may have raised about the health of Aboriginal children, that the Senate should know that substantial funds are put into Aboriginal health in Western Australia. The amount is quite disproportionate in terms of what is spent elsewhere in Australia. Over $6m is paid to the State for its community health program, which employs a large number of Aboriginal health workers and which is meant to meet the problems of Aboriginal health. It is quite clear that those problems are a long way short of being solved. In the last couple of weeks I have talked with the State Minister for Health about some of the areas of concern. I agree that the matter requires further attention. The Commonwealth also supports the Perth Aboriginal Medical Service. It has been asked to support other Aboriginal medical services, particularly the one in Broome. These are areas of current consideration. I will endeavour to give some considered response to  Senator Coleman's  remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 1 1.56 p.m. 
I am not aware of the report to which the honourable senator refers. 1 am certainly not aware of any action of the sort that he has mentioned. I will have to refer to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the three questions he has raised and seek a reply for him. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators, on behalf of  Senator Durack,  I present a study of certain developments in the regulation of petroleum marketing in the United States. 
For the information of honourable senators on behalf of  Senator Webster,  I present a report prepared by the Australian Wool Corporation on the operation of the limited offer to purchase scheme for wool in the Melbourne centre for the period 3 October 1977 to 2 October 1978, together with accounts audited by the Auditor-General. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No. 
) No concessional rates apply. 
) Not applicable. See ( 1 ) above. 
-Senator Wriedt has asked a series of questions about the sale of Hercules aircraft. I have some familiarity with that because the retendering was under consideration in the brief period when I was Minister for Administrative Services. I am advised by  Mr McLeay,  the present Minister for Administrative Services, who actually saw the matter through, that the successful tenderer was Parmax Inc. which is a Texas corporation. I am not able to advise whether the company has an agency in Australia. I will refer that aspect of the question to  Mr McLeay  for further information.  Senator Wriedt  also asked for the price. I am advised that the tender price was $A10,2 12,000. 
My understanding is that it was not possible to arrange approval of the end user prior to the tendering process. It was necessary for the process to be one which was subject to the subsequent approval of the United States authorities. The stipulation that the sale was subject to the United States Government's indicating its concurrence was a condition of the original government to government agreement covering the initial purchase of the aircraft. Action is being taken to seek such concurrence from the United States Government. As far as I know, that action has not yet been completed and the United States Government has not yet given its approval to the sale to the successful tenderer. 
I have no knowledge of that being the fact but I am not in a position to give a definitive reply. I will refer the question to the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay. 
I think the report of what  Mr Willis  has said demonstrates nothing about the priorities of the Government but a good deal about how difficult it is to follow the forms that are dictated by the requirements of the Department of Finance. Clearly  Mr Willis  has simply misunderstood the figures which have been put before the Parliament. Rather than a reduction of 64 per cent to the National Aboriginal Conference, the fact is that the Conference will receive in this financial year $109,000 more than the funds which were originally provided. The expenditure against the original appropriation in December 1 978 was $ 1 82,000 against an appropriation for the year of $505,000, together with $320,000 against the original special appropriation of $7 1 3,000, making a total expenditure to December 1978 of $502,000. In Appropriation Bill (No. 3), $825,000 is being provided to meet the continued costs to the NAC for the balance of the financial year. So, the overall funds provided for the year 1978-79 will be $ 1.327m which represents an increase of $ 109,000 over the $ 1 .2 1 8m originally provided in division 120.5. 
I think this is an important matter. I am sure that many Aboriginal people would have been concerned to read that report and I commend to the attention of honourable senators the explanatory notes which have been issued to them. They will find the relevant section on page 33. 1 hope that members of the Opposition will cooperate with me in assuring the Aboriginal people that it is not an area of cut but an area of increased allocation. I was helped by an interjection from  Senator Cavanagh  who, I think, was wondering why we were increasing it. I refer him to page 34 of the explanatory notes. 
I have seen the article relating to a proposal to cut Boeing services which I understand came from the front page of this morning's edition of the  Australian.  The article indicates- this is my only source of information at this stage- that there are two reasons why the airlines propose to use the smaller DC9s. It is partly because of passenger loads and partly because of unsuitable facilities at three of the State's major airports. The article goes on to say that a Trans-Australia Airlines spokesman indicated that DC9s would adequately cater for the loads available, although it is not made clear whether that relates to both human and freight loads or simply to passenger traffic. But to the extent that passenger usage dictates the aircraft that are to be used or passenger numbers indicate that a particular aircraft should be used, I would not have thought that that was a matter for government interference. The facilities at the airports, which are the second area of concern, are obviously a matter of government responsibility. I will refer that area to  Mr Nixon  for comment and reply. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is at present awaiting the outcome of a study by a Working Group of officials on the report of the Task Force on the establishment of a domestic communications satellite which was presented to Parliament in September 1978. That group is expected to report by 30 June 1979. 
The Government has not made any decision on this subject yet. In the event that a decision is taken to proceed with a domestic communications satellite, it is expected that it will be possible to provide outback residents on homesteads, in mining centres, and in Aboriginal settlements with significantly improved communications. 
Recently the Government has announced a decision to lease capacity in the Intelsat international communications satellite for the purpose of extending national television broadcasts to remote areas. Detailed tests and investigation demonstrated that a composite satellite/terrestrial approach would provide a service with cost and operational advantages over a solely Terrestrial system. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The costs of vandalism of public telephones and the incidence of convictions for this offence in each capital city for the financial year 1977-78 were as follows: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under legislation passed by this Government the operations of commercial broadcasting stations are in the area of responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
In accepting the Tribunal's recommendations in its report Self-regulation for Broadcasters?', the Government stipulated that minimum standards should be formulated for children's programming. Australian content, and advertising. Discussions are taking place with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations to give effect to the recommendations, but in the meantime, the existing standards are still in effect. In the case of advertising, these standards provide detailed guidance for stations including the content of advertisements, appropriate times of presentation for certain types of advertisements and the amount of advertising per hour. 
In addition to these standards, the Tribunal has stringent rules concerning advertising directed specifically to children. 
To improve the effectiveness of these standards, the Tribunal has an arrangement with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations whereby the Federation's Commercials Acceptance Division previews all nationally televised advertisements, to ensure that they conform to all legal requirements including those laid down by the Tribunal. 
The Tribunal considers that this arrangement is working effectively in the interests of viewers, stations and advertisers. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) and (2) Along with some150 nations of the world, Australia is a member of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and as such is bound to observe the International Telecommunications Convention (MalagaTorremolinos 1973). 
The Convention and its associated Radio Regulations together with the adopted agreements of later ITU Conferences govern the technical arrangements for medium frequency radio stations including frequencies, radiated power levels and radiation patterns in particular directions. 
There arc informal understandings involving frequency co-ordination procedures with Australia's neighbouring countries, i.e. New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji. New Caledonia. New Hebrides and Indonesia. 
The conditions of the agreement mentioned in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) can be found in the following documents: 
International Telecommunications Convention Malaga-Torremolinos 1973 
ITU Radio Regulations 1976 
Final Acts of the Regional Administrative LF/MF Broadcasting Conference (Regions 1 and 3)* Geneva 1975. (*Regions1 and 3 include all member nations of the ITU with the exception of Region 2 countries comprising mainly the Americas). 
5 ) to ( 7 ) For the majority of cases in Regions 1 and 3 it is necessary to consult with neighbouring countries for any change in the technical operating conditions of medium frequency radio stations including levels of radiated power. The procedures in this area are complex and are detailed in the Final Acts of the Regional Administrative LF/MF Broadcasting Conference (Regions 1 and 3) Geneva 1975. 
Co-ordination and agreement between Australia and New Zealand and Papua New Guinea is sought prior to a detailed submission to the International Frequency Registration Board, which is an organ of the ITU. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Approaches to staffof my Department by lobbyists or professional agencies are not treated differently from approaches by any member of the community. Where appropriate, correspondence or details of discussions arc recorded on file. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In response to many enquiries from customers, Australia Post has been considering selling stamp albums and first day cover albums. 
In the course of its examination, Australia Post has consulted with stamp dealers and newsagents, in order to assess the likely impact should it enter into this field. 
The matter is still under consideration. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Three. Supervisor TV Sales (Clerical Officer Class 8). $17,733-18,449: Program Sales Officer (Clerical Officer Class 5 ), $ 13, 1 87- 14,258: Clerk, Grade 3, $8,785-9,365. 
Global TV Services Ltd of London- Western Europe (incl. UK &amp; Eire), North Africa, Eastern Europe (incl. Soviet Union) and the Middle East (incl. the Persian Gulf States) D. L. Taffner Ltd of New York-North and South America, Asia and New Zealand. 
) The terms of the contracts cover from one to three year periods and provide for the payment of a small retainer and a percentage- normally 10 percent- of the gross revenue. 
1977-78- 
A Drop in the Ocean- Belgium, Greece 
Funny Things Happen Down Under- Belgium 
Wild Australia ( 7 eps.)-Bulgaria 
They Don 't Clap Losers- Norway, Sweden 
A Big Country (26 eps.)-UK. Bulgaria 
A Big Country (2 eps.)- Yugoslavia 
Another Beginning- Denmark 
Last Rites-UK. Malta 
Power Without Glory (26eps.)-UK (3 Networks) 
Rottnest Winter- Holland, Norway, Denmark 
Tichborne Affair- Norway, Hungary 
Wildlife Papua New Guinea (4 eps.)- Holland, Kuwait, Czechoslovakia 
Wildlife Papua New Guinea ( 1ep)- Norway 
Wildlife Australia (5 eps.)- Holland 
Wildlife Australia (2 eps.)- Norway 
Asian Insight (6 eps.)- Bulgaria 
In the Wild with Harry Butler (6 eps.)- Bulgaria. Kuwait 
Wild Australia (2 eps.)- France, Denmark. Norway 
A Change of Climate- Finland, Iceland 
Australian Rules Football Highlights-UK, Eire 
Seven Ages: The Justice- Sweden 
Pig in a Poke (5 eps.)- Sweden 
Pig in a Poke (3 eps.)- Holland 
Pig in a Poke: Theo's Story- Norway 
A Civilised Malady- Spain, Iceland 
The Lady and the Law- Holland 
Quality of Mercy: Papa- Sweden 
Notes on Craft- Belgium 
Sydney Hobart Yacht Race 1 977-Hong Kong 
A Big Country (7 eps.)- New Zealand 
1978-79- 
(30 June, 1978 to 28 February, 1979)- 
The Company Men (7 eps.)-Germany 
Quality of Mercy- Sweden 
Devlin- UK 
Edge of the Cold (4 eps.)- Holland. Sweden. Finland 
The Geeks-Holland, UK 
Wild Australia (7 eps.)- Holland 
Last Rites-UK 
Loss of Innocence ( 4 eps. )- Sweden 
Wildlife Papua New Guinea- France 
Aliens and Gods- Iceland 
Antarctica- The Last Continent- Sweden 
In the Wild with Harry Butler (6 eps.)- Eire 
A Change of Climate- Spain 
A Bay in the Balance- Spain 
Certain Women (22 eps. )- UK 
A Big Country ( 1 3 eps. )-UK 
A Civilised Malady- New Zealand 
Sydney Hobart Yacht Race 1977- Brunei 
A Bay in the Balance- Japan 
Power Without Glory (26 eps.)- New Zealand 
In the Wild with Harry Butler (19eps.)-USA. New Zealand, Hong Kong 
Asian Insight (6 eps.)- New Zealand, Hong Kong 
Edgeofthe Cold (4 eps.)-Brazil, USA, Japan 
From India to Nepal (5 eps.)- New Zealand 
Wildlife Papua New Guinea (4 eps. )- New Zealand 
The terms of these sales varied greatly. A profit was made on each sale but to give details of terms would prejudice the ABC's selling position. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Only at Albany in Western Australia does the ABC have a news correspondent who is also employed by a commercial radio station. 
News correspondents who have connections with local newspapers- most as employees but some as owners or partners in the publishing companies concerned- are used in the following centres: 
New South Wales 
Griffith, Finley, Narrandera, Deniliquin, Wagga Wagga, Temora, Hay, Hillston. Bombala, Eden, Bega, Casino, Coffs Harbour, Grafton, Mullumbimby, Murwillumbah, Dorrigo, Wauchope, Taree, Muswellbrook, Scone, Gosford, Singleton, Lithgow. Bathurst, Parkes, Forbes, Dubbo, Mudgee, Wellington, Narrabri, Wollongong. 
Victoria 
Kyabram. Shepparton. Wangaratta, Cobram, Beechworth, Corryong, Horsham, Ararat, Boort, Camperdown, Colac, Dimboola,Kerang, Maryborough, Mildura, Ouyen, Portland, St Arnaud, Warracknabeal, Warragul, Foster, Koorumburra, Wonthaggi, Mirboo North, Orbost, Yarram. 
Queensland 
Charleville, Blackall, Monto, Allora, Mt Isa, Stanthorpe, Strathpine. 
South Australia 
Balaklava, Clare, Pt Lincoln, Pt Pirie, Streaky Bay, Angaston, Kingscote, Kingston (SE), Naracoorte, Waikerie, Broken Hill, Alice Springs. 
Western Australia 
Northam, Merredin, Busselton, Manjimup. Tasmania 
Scottsdale, Illfraville, Sheffield, Devonport, Deloraine. 
Canberra 
Goulburn, Yass, Tumut, Crookwell, Cootamundra. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(i)1, (ii) 8, (iii) 153, (iv) 45, (v) 5, (vi) 2, (vii) 21, (viii) 11, (ix) 60. 
(i) 2, (ii) 3, (iii) 134, (iv) 39, (v) 1, (vi) nil, (vii) 23, (viii) 10, (ix) 55. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no proposal to compulsorily retire any grades of Telecom Australia employees at 55 years of age. 
-On 22 February 1979  Senator Ryan  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
In the light of the statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on the television program  Nationwide  last night that the government was strongly convinced that there must bc extensive public debate on the communications satellite proposal, will the Government now decide to extend the time for public debate for another 12 months beyond March this year and will the Government find funds to assist those community organisations that want to participate in the public debate to do so? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No; the Government is satisfied that there has been sufficient opportunity for public comment and debate. There is a tendency to overlook the fact that the matter of a National Communications Satellite has been open for community comment since the establishment of the Task Force in November 1977. Following publication of the Task Force Report in September 1978, the Government decided that there should be a further opportunity for the community to consider the issues and make submissions to a Working Group of officials established by the Government. The closing date for the lodging of submissions with that Working Group was 31 March 1979. Overall, therefore, there will have been a period of at least 15 months for the community to discuss and make submissions on a National Communications Satellite System. 
In view of the above, the answer to the second part of the honourable senator's question is, no. 
-Senator Bishop has raised this subject in the Senate on a number of occasions. This is a new suggestion, and I will refer it to the Minister for Administrative Services for consideration. 
I will convey the concern of honourable senators and the rest of the question to the Minister and seek replies to the various questions raised. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport for reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( I ), (2), (3) and (4). The members of my personal staff and I are contacted from time to time by various representatives of public relations firms and lobbyists. The specific information requested by the honourable senator concerns matters which are confidential to those individuals or organisations who make representations to myself or my staff, lt would be quite inappropriate for me to disclose details of any meetings with public relations firms or lobbyists, or, for that matter, any member of the public. 
Ministerial Meetings with Business Consultants (Question No. 1196) 
I assure the Senate that it is the Government's wish and policy to buy Australian goods whenever possible. Obviously one cannot make a blanket commitment to do so simply in the face of any cost difference that might exist. However, I am not aware of the purchase which the honourable senator has outlined. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Administrative Services and seek a reply to the various parts of the question which has been asked. 
I can put the honourable senator's mind at rest. I am not able to give the precise figures that  Senator Young  has requested. I suggest it is about time that  Senator Georges  took his suspicious mind home and had a little rest. I am aware that there was a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council as recently as 27 April. There was a lot of publicity about that meeting. I think many honourable senators would be aware that Ministers at the meeting could not agree to proceed to the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27A. The majority view of the States, the Territories and the Commonwealth is that the third stage should not be implemented. New South Wales and South Australian Ministers indicated that their governments would proceed through State legislation to introduce more stringent motor vehicle emission controls. Victoria will review its position in the light of action taken by New South Wales and South Australia. 
There was some agreement at the meeting, however. It was agreed that at the next meeting the Ministers would consider a report from advisers on the principal issues associated with present and future vehicle emission standards and controls. Advice is not yet available on the implications of New South Wales and South Australia proceeding independently to the third stage; nor is independent advice available on how those States propose to implement that approach. I understand that the Ministers had before them a number of studies and reports but that no new information was presented to the meeting. I should, however, mention that there appears to be a significant difference of technical opinion on present and projected air quality. The expert advice which is available to us is that the position with regard to photochemical pollution in Sydney has improved slightly since 1 976 and that current levels are likely to be maintained until some time in the mid-1980s with existing controls. Trends for other urban areas appear generally to follow this line but at a lower level. I am sure that this matter is of great interest to honourable senators. They will all await the next meeting of ATAC with great interest. 

 - Senator Teague raises matters which are very often raised in rural areas right around Australia. They are matters of very great concern. I do not have any detail on the matters which the honourable senator has raised, but my recollection is that over the last few years Telecom Australia has either stabilised costs or effected some reductions, particularly in rural areas, under certain categories. An attempt has been made to reduce the burden on the sort of people to whom  Senator Teague  referred in his question. The matter of equalising telephone call charges has also been subject to frequent representations. Again I am sure that the Minister will well be able to give a reply to that question. The third matter raised by  Senator Teague  is quite new to me, but once again I will refer it to the Minister and seek a reply. 
I seem to recall the Treasurer being asked a question at a meeting in Perth a few weeks ago when he indicated that the Government would be interested in hearing of proposals of that sort. I am somewhat surprised to hear that someone might want to purchase a bit of the Australian National Railways services. I did not think that tax losses applied in the particular circumstance. In any event, I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport and perhaps to the Treasurer and seek a reply 
-Earlier today  Senator Teague  asked me a question about rural telephone costs, the cost of calls to essential local services and other related matters. I have had further advice on that matter which confirms that rural subscribers are continually making representations on this matter. I am also advised that there are 2,400 local charging zones in the national network. The Government has asked Telecom Australia to review and report on possible changes to this network. Matters of significance included in the study and still under review are local call availability to the nearest service centre in remote areas and the urban spread which is creating pressure to extend urban local call access in metropolitan fringe areas. The review is currently being completed by Telecom. 
A major focus of attention this financial year which has been of benefit to subscribers seeking extended local call areas has been the adjustment of trunk rates. I made some general reference to that in my earlier answer. Reductions in the trunk rates for shorter distance calls were announced last July. Present indications are that it may be practicable to do something worth while for subscribers in some country areas, particularly for many of those who do not have access to a reasonable centre at local rates. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As part of its normal day to day operations the Department of Transport has many approaches from businessmen and organisations representing business and industry groups. 
Normal procedures followed by my Department are for a record of conversation to be taken where appropriate and placed on the relevant file. In significant cases, the terms of the approach are brought to the attention of senior officers and in some cases, brought to my attention. No special procedures exist to record specifically whether the approach is made by a lobbyist. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists (Question No. 1223) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No formal procedures exist within the Postal and Telecommunications Department for recording approaches made to staff by lobbyists. 
Representations by individuals or interested groups would normally be recorded on Departmental files dealing with the subject matter ofthe representations. 
I am sure that the Government has nothing to hide in this matter. I will seek and expedite a reply for the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report of the National Employee Participation Steering Committee entitled 'employee participation: A broad view' together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  relating to the report. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In flying non-stop, a Boeing 727 (200 series) would normally consume 
approximately 18,150 kg(40,000 lbs)of aviation turbine fuel between Perth and Sydney 
approximately 20,735 kg (45,700 lbs) of aviation turbine fuel between Sydney and Perth. 
The fuel consumed by an aircraft on a particular flight would vary with weather conditions. 
The Sydney to Lithgow section is operated by electric locomotives. Average consumption of diesel fuel from Lithgow to Perth, a distance of 3,806 kilometres, is 26,600 litres. This includes the haulage of two sitting up cars operating between Sydney and Peterborough, a motor car carrier and an additional coach between Port Pirie and Perth when required. Normal accommodation is for 144 through passengers. 
I am sure that a large number of people employed in the Australian motor industry would have heard the last part of that question with great interest. I would have thought that as an industry the Australian motor industry at the moment is showing commendable signs of an imaginative approach to its products. The industry is one which we ought to be encouraging and not damning in the manner attempted by the honourable senator. 
I will ask  Mr Nixon  to let me have a reply to the questions concerning emission controls. It ought to be clear to honourable senators that the Government has had an extensive interest in the question of emission controls. It has been the subject of many meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The Government has obviously done a great deal of work in this area. It should also be obvious to all honourable senators that the changes which have been made have not been without their problems, including the problems of post-manufacture maintenance and so on and the resulting efficiency of new systems. I indicated in Question Time yesterday that the serious questions raised are still under consideration by Transport Ministers round Australia. I do not believe that the answers can be quite so glib as the question was. 
I wish the honourable senator had started his question not by drawing my attention to the report but by asking whether I knew that it existed. My answer to that question would have been no. I did not see the  Australian Financial Review  this morning. I know nothing of the matters which the honourable senator has raised. I shall see whether  Mr Nixon  can provide a more satisfactory reply. 
I cannot tell the honourable senator when the review is to be concluded, if that be the principal matter of concern to him. I have had my attention drawn to the report about the South Australian airline and I am advised that consideration of Commodore's application to fly between Adelaide and Port Lincoln has been deferred pending the Government's decision on part 2 of the domestic air policy review. I will ask  Mr Nixon  whether he can give me some indication of when that review will be concluded. 1 understand that the applicant, Commodore Aviation, has made a claim that it has a right to be issued with an exemption under the Air Navigation Regulations to operate the service, and the Commonwealth is currently considering the legal implications of that claim. 

 - Senator Robertson's question raises a matter that I suspect would have been concerning a good number of honourable senators. I am not able to confirm whether Aboriginals have met with  Mr Andrew  Young, although I know that attempts were made to arrange such a meeting. I know that some representatives from Lake Nash are in Canberra at the moment. In fact, 1 am seeing them myself this afternoon. However, 1 am not sure whether they will be able to see  Mr Young;  that is not a matter on which I am informed. 1 have seen reports that on behalf of these people somebody wrote to the  President  of the United States of America. That person who, I think, is familiar to  Senator Robertson,  lives in Alice Springs. I am able to confirm that an injunction was issued by the Northern Territory Supreme Court in early April on the application of Aboriginals from Lake Nash. I have sought and obtained regular reports from my Department as to what is happening in relation to this matter. It is obviously a most unfortunate state of affairs. In the light of the fact that there is litigation pending on this matter, I do not want to go too much into the rights and wrongs of it. 
It is obviously a matter of great concern that the Aboriginal community is having the difficulties that it is experiencing on that station. I think honourable senators might take some comfort and heart from the fact that programs which have had the support of both the previous Government and the present Government have given those Aboriginals some tools which we have seen put to work in this case. The fact that the Aboriginals at a time of stress went to the Northern Territory Supreme Court and obtained an injunction is, in itself, a sign of advance. We have always been concerned at the inability of Aboriginal groups to obtain the proper protection of the law. The fact that they were able in this case to take what I see as most appropriate action is a sign that the sort of programs that we have been pursuing in legal aid and other areas are beginning to bear fruit. It is also true that the communities have received assistance from one organisation in Alice Springs. I cannot recall its precise name but it is an organisation which receives Commonwealth funding. The health services which were interrupted are now being provided in the area by the Utopia Health Service. 
That organisation is funded by the Commonwealth and incorporated under Commonwealth law. I mention those matters, not in the sense that I believe that everything that has to be done has yet been done, but because I think it is very good that without direct government intervention these various agencies have been able to work with a great amount of Aboriginal participation. 
The honourable senator quite properly asks what we are doing about the situation. Both the Northern Territory Government and the Commonwealth Government, through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, have been taking a close and active interest in this matter. My understanding is that a number of Aboriginals have been quite happy to leave Lake Nash to go to Ammaroo. In that respect both governments have been co-operating and examining whether adequate services are available for those people at Ammaroo. I understand that action is being taken now to ensure that there are.  Mr Ian  Tuxworth, the Northern Territory Minister for Health and Community Development, has convened a conference at Lake Nash on 19 May to discuss the situation. Participants, apart from  Mr Tuxworth  himself, will be Department of Aboriginal Affairs officers, representatives of the Lake Nash community and officials of the company, if they will attend. We have not yet had confirmation that they will attend. Obviously their participation would be very important.  Mr Tuxworth  is hopeful that the general manager of the company will be involved in those discussions. 
As I have already indicated, health services are currently being provided by the Utopia Health Service. There Will be discussions between my Department and the Health Service in the near future to ensure that properly trained people are attending to the medical needs of the Lake Nash community. I understand that the requirements of the injunction issued by  Mr Justice  Toohey are being observed. The Aboriginal people have access to the store, and so on. Although they are continuing to experience difficulties, I can assure honourable senators that those difficulties are receiving attention. 
In Question Time  Senator Primmer  asked whether the Government had anything to hide about Omega and referred to questions he had raised on 22 November 1978 and 8 March 1979. 1 am pleased to confirm to the Senate that the Government has nothing to hide, as I indicated.  Senator Primmer  seems to have overlooked a letter dated 27 March sent to him by  Mr Nixon  and which responds to the questions which he has asked. There is one small error in that letter. The first paragraph refers to 13 March instead of 8 March. I will not seek leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard  as it is addressed to  Senator Primmer. 
I will ascertain whether  Senator Primmer  minds the letter addressed to him being incorporated in  Hansard.  If he does not mind I will seek leave to incorporate the letter tomorrow. 
My recollection of the letter is that the total funds made available to the 
Service were included in the figures provided. I do not have a clear recollection of the precise breakdown. I will seek that information for the honourable senator. 
I doubt whether it is within the competence of the Minister to instruct Telecom in the terms requested. However, I will refer the question to  Mr Staley  for a definitive reply. 
I have seen reports of the speech which the Prime Minister gave in Manila. The reports indicate that he laid emphasis on the importance of not adopting protectionist policies in light of the world economic situation. That is a theme which I think is not new to speeches which have been given by the Prime Minister and I think other Ministers representing the Government. I do not believe that the speech represents a startling change of direction for the Government at all. The matter has been brought to the public's attention in a series of papers which have been put before the Government and before the public. The White Paper on manufacturing industry, for example, talks of the issue in terms of the difference between the short and long term problems facing the Australian economy and the conflict which can exist between short and long term objectives. 
I think that the speech is a valuable contribution to a matter of great international concern. Obviously it is relevant to our domestic situation because it relates to domestic actions taken by different countries and to how they can affect the international situation. I will refer the question to the Minister I represent. He may care to add to the reply I have given today. 
I think  Senator Bishop  was present at the meeting of Estimates Committee E last week when there was a very useful discussion between senators and officers of the Department of Productivity about that Department's national role in the area to which the honourable senator referred. There was no specific mention of asbestos, but that line of country was generally canvassed. The amount of information I have available to me is about the same at the moment as that which is available to the honourable senator through that meeting. As we were informed then, the Department plays a non-directive role in trying to achieve Australiawide standards in various areas. It consults on a very regular basis with State governments. Indeed, there is quite an extraordinarily high number of ministerial meetings between the Federal Minister and State Ministers, all dealing with this area of occupational safety and standards and so on. 
I will ask the Minister whether he can give  Senator Bishop  the information he requires about the question of asbestos.  Senator Bishop  has said that figures are compiled only by the States. He would be aware, I think, that there has been a lot of activity by State governments in this area. In my own State of Western Australia, the town of Wittenoom, has been the subject of a great deal of action because of the health hazard that has been related to asbestos mining there. 1 know that it has received a great deal of State government attention, but as to the extent it has received attention from the Commonwealth, I am not sure. 
This matter has come up in the Senate on a number of occasions, usually because of questions asked by either  Senator Townley  or  Senator Wriedt.  I have not seen the report to which the honourable senator has referred about a complaint in Sydney. As to whether inaccurate charging has been a major cause of dispute, honourable senators may remember that some specific statistics were put before the Senate, 1 think last year, about the actual number of complaints which are quite large but have to be viewed in the context of the very much larger number of accounts which are actually involved. I am sorry that I do not remember the precise figures but it is a relatively small proportion of accounts which are involved. It does seem to be clear that there can be inaccuracies in accounts using the current equipment. 

 - Senator Wriedt tells me it is 80,000. He might be able to help me with the total number of accounts. But I do stand by my statement that it is a very small proportion of accounts. The fact that there can be mistakes does appear to have been established. Honourable senators may remember that I have on previous occasions given the Telecom estimate of the cost of installing alternative equipment. It is many tens of millions of dollars. I am not completely up to date on this matter. I will find out what has happened since it was last raised with Telecom. I understand that there have been discussions with the people who have been making representations over the last two months, and 1 will let the honourable senator have a more detailed reply. 
This matter has been raised on at least one previous occasion by  Senator Kilgariff.  I advised him then that the service would be continued pending a review. The review was not conducted by the Commonwealth Department but was undertaken by the Northern Territory Government. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that officers of his Department were not involved directly in the review which was undertaken. However,  Mr Nixon  did agree to discussions between the Australian National Line and a Northern Territory delegation to assist with the review. The Minister has not received a copy of the report but he has been contacted by  Mr Roger  Steele, the Northern Territory Minister for Transport and Works, who advised him of some aspects of the review which related to the operation of the  Darwin Trader.  These matters are currently under consideration. The Commission has advised  Mr Nixon  that it is not intended to cease services by the  Darwin Trader  in the immediate future, pending further consultations with the Northern Territory Government. 
1 am advised by the Minister for Transport that the report of the meeting to which  Senator Archer  referred in his question was received by him only during the latter part of last month. It is currently under examination by the Department of Transport. I am assured by the Minister that when the implications of the report have been examined in full the Victorian Institute of Marine Sciences will receive a considered reply. A copy of that reply will be sent to  Senator Archer  for his information. 
I think that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has publicly expressed his concern that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should address itself to this matter. As honourable senators opposite continuously remind us, and no doubt properly, the ABC is an independent Commission and is not subject to direction in these matters. I commend to the attention of honourable senators the evidence given before the Estimates Committee last week when a series of questions with respect to cricket was put to representatives of the ABC. It was made clear in the answers given by the ABC witnesses that at that time no contact had been made with the ABC on the matter, no offer had been made to the Commission and, therefore, it was not in a position to respond to it. There was also some evidence given about the problems which arise when an attempt is made to put different programs through on the same network. I am sure that the honourable senator will find in those answers a great deal of instruction. 
My attention has been drawn to these reports, I think, both in this chamber and by media reports about them. However, 1 have not yet had an opportunity to study them. I have no doubt that they are receiving the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I will refer the question to him. The matter is not simple. I have found that my own children, who watch mainly the Australian Broadcasting Commission, currently because of - 
I was about to point out to the Senate that advertising can occur in strange ways. Because of the program  Marque,  they are considerably discontented with the standard of motor vehicle I now drive, and I am thinking of restricting their viewing to commercial television. 
My recollection is that the Commonwealth is involved with the State in a joint exercise to look at the Perth Airport. I further understand that the committee has already reported on short term measures which could be taken to alleviate the position. Some recent changes made to the airport flow, I think, from the work of the committee. With respect to the longer term development of the airport, I am not quite sure of the point the committee has reached. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Transport and put to him the view which has been put by  Senator Thomas. 
by leave- I wish to make a statement relating to the visit to North America and Japan by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in March 1979 and I ask leave to have the text  of the statement incorporated in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

Honourable Senators will be aware that the prime purpose of this overseas visit was to finalise important bilateral negotiations with the United States and Japan. These negotiations were part of the bilateral settlements within the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, or MTN. Because of the wide range of trade issues addressed in the MTN their outcome will shape the world trading environment for at least the next decade. As a major trading nation Australia has a vital interest in the outcome. 
The MTN has now substantially concluded so far as the multilateral aspects are concerned. At a meeting in Geneva on 12 April representatives of the world's major trading nations adopted the texts of a number of agreements about international trading rules which will form the central part of the final result. These agreements are now to be considered by governments. 
The time table for the formal finalization of the MTN is linked to United States Congressional examination and approval. Under its own legislation Congress must accept or reject the package in its entirety- it cannot amend it. This process must be completed before the end of 1979 when the President's mandate will expire. While some negotiations are still to be completed, for all practical purposes no further changes of substance can be negotiated into the draft accords already reached. It is up to governments to either accept or reject them. 
The package encompasses the results of both bilateral negotiations and multilateral negotiations on new trade rules. Among the latter are arrangements or 'codes of conduct' on trade in civil aircraft, customs valuation, government procurement, export subsidies and countervailing duties, import licensing procedures, standards and the settlement of disputes on trade issues. At a later date I intend to report to the Senate on the MTN outcome in its entirety. 
The bilateral agreements which have been concluded with the United States and Japan are an important part of the overall MTN package for Australia. A central objective in these negotiations was to secure effective guarantees for our beef exports to these key markets. Predictable and firm access arrangements are essential to the future well-being and planning of the Australian beef industry which exports more than half of its production. And well over half of our beef exports are marketed in the United States and Japan where there have always been strong protectionist pressures. 
Honourable Senators will be aware that in recent years our beef industry has suffered more than any other Australian industry as a result of restrictive trade policies. In 1974 the problems for our beef producers were worsened by the precipitate imposition of total bans on meat imports by Japan and the EEC, compounded by the introduction of restrictive quotas by Canada in the same year. In the following year the United States imposed restraints on imports at a level significantly below that of the immediately preceding years. 
Although not in government at the time, we resolved that we would do everything we could to ensure that never again should such a vital rural industry be subject to a collective shutout or severe restriction in its traditional markets; to see that never again should our beef producers not have minimum access assurances in their key markets; that never again should their prosperity be crippled by the lack of Government action to secure existing markets and to gain new markets. 
This Government has taken energetic steps in these directions. In our two major beef markets of the United States and Japan we have negotiated access commitments of at least 380,000 tonnes a year- or almost a third higher than our actual exports in 1974-75. I will explain the basis of these commitments in a moment. 
I understand that some members of the Opposition have been critical of the beef arrangements negotiated. They say the amounts are lower than the current access levels. Such criticisms completely miss the point of the value of access assurances. They ignore the fundamental stability and basic insurance for the beef industry that such secure access levels provide. They ignore them in exactly the same way as a Labor Government ignored them in 1974-75 and presided over the disastrous market shutouts that helped put the beef industry on its knees. The agreements just concluded with the United States and Japan will guard against a return to this situation. They will act as a form of insurance for the future by providing secure opportunities to sell at times when, without the discipline of such arrangements, importing countries might again be tempted to severely restrict access for Australian beef. 
Now that these understandings have been reached with the U.S.A. and Japan, we are looking for similar settlements with our other major trading partners- especially the EEC and Canada. 
With the security of all these new arrangements the Australian beef industry will be able to plan ahead with new confidence. The Australian industry, the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, the Australian Trade Commissioner Service and others promoting beef exports will be able to seek new market outlets and consolidate gains made in other markets in the knowledge that exports to Australia's traditional and major markets will not be restricted below the floor levels negotiated. 
Considerable efforts have already been made in this area of new market development and are showing very positive results- particularly in areas such as South Korea and the Middle East. Australia's exports to the Republic of Korea have increased from 500 tonnes in 1976 to around 59,000 tonnes in 1978, with the expectation that Korea will import up to 100,000 tonnes from Australia in 1979. Exports to the Middle East have also shown considerable growth in the last three years- from around 21,000 tonnes in 1975 to an estimated 68,000 tonnes in 1978. 
The settlement concluded with the United States is particularly significant and I would like to give the Senate more details of it. Since 1964 the United States has had legislation to restrict imports of beef by means of quotas. We have never had any continuing formal understanding with the United States as to a minimum or floor level for those quotas. At a time when protectionist pressures were increasing in the United States this was a matter of particular concern to the Australian beef industry. 
The new agreement gives a guarantee that in any circumstances global imports will not be restricted below 1.2 billion pounds per annum, or 544,000 tonnes. On the basis of GATT rules regarding performance in a previous representative period, Australia can expect to be allocated at least 279.000 tonnes of this global figure. This gives us a virtual guarantee of access at that level. When the base quota calculated in accordance with the present U.S. meat import law is at or above 1.2 billion pounds per annum and voluntary restraint agreements are in effect, a global access level of at least 1.3 billion pounds will be provided-that is 590,000 tonnes. In that case, Australia could expect, on its present performance, to be allocated at least 303,000 tonnes. 
The agreement also provides for a useful duty reduction on beef from 3 U.S. cents per pound to 2 U.S. cents per pound, representing a possible increase in overall returns to the Australian industry of around $6-$7 million a year. 
In addition, we have received renewed assurances that the attitude of the United States Administration towards any new countercyclical meat import legislation is unchanged from that announced in 1978. The Administration position is that if there is to be any such legislation it should contain an access level for meat imports of at least 1.3 billion pounds annually, and should maintain the authority which the  President  has in the current import law for him to increase meat imports if such action is necessary in the public interest. 
In the case of Japan, the Japanese Government has indicated that it expects imports of beef to increase steadily until the end of the Japanese fiscal year 1982. At this time it is expected that the global import level will be at least 135,000 tonnes. Under this arrangement we can expect that imports will reach at least 142,000 tonnes in 1983 and that this growth will be part of a pattern of continuing expansion in the Japanese beef market. 
Within these figures, Japan has agreed to co-operate with us in efforts to exploit the demand for high-quality beef with a view to lifting global imports by 14,000 tonnes by Japanese fiscal year 1983. Our two Governments will also assess, jointly, the possibilities for imports of high-quality beef ona full-sets basis. We will also co-operate in examining the nature of the Japanese manufacturing-beef market which is expected to increase substantially up to 1983. 
These arrangements, and their development beyond 1 983. will be the subject of new inter-governmental consultative arrangements between Japan and Australia. This commitment to continuing policy consultations is something of a breakthrough in our relations with Japan on beef and should provide a sound basis for our industry to plan its future shipments to this important market. 
The MTN arrangements reached with the United States have also achieved most useful concessions on a range of other products. After generations of effort on the part of successive Governments we have at last succeeded in negotiating a reduction in the United States duty on raw wool. It is proposed that it will be reduced by 60 percent over a period of three years. This was the maximum reduction which, under their legislation, the United States negotiators were authorised to make, and over the shortest period permitted. It is gratifying, at long last, to have achieved some movement by the U.S. on this long-standing impediment to one of our great export industries. 
Australia 's quotas for cheese in the U.S. market will more than double from the pre-MTN quota level of 1,600 tonnes to 4,000 tonnes. In addition we now have an entirely new quota for a dairy-based product called chocolate crumb. Duty reductions have also been negotiated on a range of other Australian export items to both the U.S. and Japan. 
The process of negotiation is naturally two-way and other countries have sought improvements in access for their goods into Australia's market. In tabling a formula offer in July last year we issued a challenge to our trading partners to greatly improve their offers to Australia. This challenge was not met and accordingly our offer has been substantially scaled down. What we have now offered matches what we will receive. 
As negotiations with some of our other trading partners are still in progress and there is a need for ratification by Japan and the U.S. through normal procedures of the overall settlements reached in the MTN, it is not appropriate to disclose at this stage the details of the concessions offered by Australia. This will be done as soon as practicable. However, I can assure Australian industries that the Government is satisfied that their interests have been adequately protected. 
Australia has undertaken in respect of a relatively small list of items to bind tariff rates against future increase. With the exception of two items- one of which relates to the concessional duty on tobacco- all rates negotiated with the U.S. and Japan are at the currently applied rate. Hence there will be no reduction in the current level of protection afforded via the tariff. The Government is satisfied that the interests of the Australian tobacco industry have been adequately protected in the negotiations. 
While we have not achieved all our objectives in the MTN, I am satisfied that the bilateral settlements reached with the United States and Japan are fair to both sides and will facilitate an expansion of trade on a mutuallyadvantageous basis. 
However the broader trade policies of major importers of agricultural commodities remain restrictive and we will have to continue our efforts to moderate those policies. The MTN has opened up opportunities for this in the form of new international commodity agreements on meat and dairy products. lt is my intention that Australia use these new arrangements and all other means at its disposal to press our case for better trading conditions for agricultural commodities. 
During my colleague's visit to North America he also had useful discussions with the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture,  Mr Bergland,  and the responsible Canadian Minister,  Mr Otto  Lang, on the outcome of the recent UN wheat negotiating conference. These talks confirmed the need for better cooperation between major wheat exporting nations in the absence of a fully-fledged International Wheat Agreement. 
It is up to exporters to do what they can to help ensure stability in the world wheat market until a substantive international agreement involving both exporting and importing countries can be negotiated. The precise form of future cooperation between exporters will be worked out at a highlevel meeting later this month at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, at which Australia will be represented. However, no one should think that the world's major exporters envisage increased co-operation developing into any form of price cartel. Competition between exporters is a fact of life and will remain so. But co-operating Governments and industries will exchange information on wheat policies and marketing in order to ensure that decisions affecting wheat trade are consistent with market realities and the need for stability and improved world food security. 
While the Multilateral Trade Negotiations and wheat matters were the main matters discussed, my colleague was able to make use of his visit to explore a range of other matters of current interest to Australia, including energy and resource problems. 
Discussions with  Dr Schlesinger,  Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy, underlined the importance of developing policies aimed at the full utilisation of Australia's energy-producing potential. 
Australia has a particular interest in securing access to the U.S. market for natural gas. We were able to impress upon  Dr Schlesinger  and other senior U.S. officials Australia's potential as a stable supplier of LNG and have suggested further detailed discussions at official level aimed at enhancing Australia's opportunity to supply natural gas to the West Coast of the United States. It is clear that, even if the current world oil supply situation can be brought into balance in a relatively short time, the future economic growth of the United States- and therefore of the Western worlddepends upon developments aimed at producing energy as economically as possible. Australia has a major role to play in this area and I believe the future oil supply and price situation will strengthen Australia's ability to win a share of the U.S. market for natural gas. 
In Japan my colleague also discussed the important question of the upgrading of Australia's raw material exports. This is an area in which there is great potential, over a wide range of mineral commodities, for future co-operation between Australia and Japan. It involves significant benefits for both countries in terms of additional employment and greater utilisation of resources for Australia and lower costs for Japan. Upgrading of minerals in Australia will involve high levels of new  investment  and we have told the Japanese that Australia would welcome a share of the investment funds generated through Japan's balance-of-payments surplus. lt has always been the Government's policy to move towards more processing of minerals before export, but as we move into the 1 980s progress in this area is likely to bc more rapid than in the past. 
I have no doubts that the arrangements entered into and the discussions held as a result of this visit have helped advance Australia's interests in the area of trade and resources. 
Naturally I attach particular importance to the MTN settlements reached with the United States and Japan. 1 am sure they will be of lasting economic value to Australia and will help underpin the broader bonds of friendship which exist between the United States, Japan and Australia. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the extension of the free issue of the national flag and to incorporate the statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

I wish to make a statement on three matters of interest to all honourable senators; these matters concern the free issue of the national flag, cassette recordings of the national anthem and national tune and the availability of colour photographs of the Queen. The national flag is our symbol of national unity. As such, the Government is concerned to encourage the flying of the national flag as widely as possible. The proper and dignified use of the national flag can only encourage national consciousness. Consistent with this, the Commonwealth Government's practice is to fly the national flag from the main flagpoles of all Commonwealth Government buildings and establishments on all working days during normal working hours. For many years the Government has issued the national flag free to schools, orphanages, recognised youth organisations and State and national sporting organisations. This has helped to foster in young people respect for and familiarity with the national flag and also a knowledge of its correct use. In response to many representations made by honourable members and to requests from organisations within the community, the Government has decided to extend the free-issue of the national flag. 
In addition to those categories I have already mentioned, the following groups will, from 1 July 1979, also be eligible to apply for the freeissue of the national flag: 
Community service clubs, including exservice, Apex, Lions, Rotary, senior citizens and the Country Women's Associations; benevolent and welfare organisations, including Red Cross and Legacy; homes for handicapped persons; church and religious bodies; ethnic organisations; and sporting clubs. 
The Department of Administrative Services, which has the responsibility for policy matters regarding the flying and use of the national flag, will also assume the full responsibility for the free-issue of the flag from 1 July. This follows agreement with the Minister for Education and the Minister for Home Affairs whose separate departments presently distribute the free-issue of the flag to the groups currently eligible to receive it. 
Because of the wide and personal interest honourable members have in the flag, it is proposed that all requests for a free-issue should be made through a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. As honourable senators will know the standing of organisations and groups in their electorates they will be able to recommend whether a flag should be issued free. The Department of Administrative Services is moving to order supplies of flags in different sizes. It is anticipated that some eligible groups may wish to use their flag only indoors at meetings and functions. A flag smaller in size to the kind flown outdoors would be more suitable in these instances. I should emphasise that one flag only will be provided to each eligible recipient. Requests will be handled in the order they are received and flags forwarded according to the availability of supplies. Following established practice, free issue flags will be provided and replaced on a seven year basis. However, should a flag be damaged because of unusual weather conditions or some other circumstances, a request for a replacement will be considered if it is supported by a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The second matter to which I wish to make reference concerns the special recordings the Department of Administrative Services has had made of the national anthem "God save the Queen" and the national tune "Advance Australia Fair" on cassettes. Honourable senators will appreciate that these cassettes are now available for free-issue to those groups currently eligible to receive the free-issue of the national flag. Eligibility for the free issue of cassettes will be expanded from 1 July to equate with that for the national flag. Similarly, all requests should be made through a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The other matter I wish to refer to concerns new colour photographs of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The Queen has given approval for the distribution of new colour photographs taken at Buckingham Palace which show  Her  Majesty wearing the Insignia of the Order of Australia. Prints of the new photograph will be made available to schools, groups and organisations which will display the photograph in a proper and dignified manner. Requests for a colour photograph should be addressed to the Department of Administrative Services. I have spoken about Government initiatives concerning three matters which identify the Australian people and our nation. These are subjects for which we all share a common respect. 
in reply- There have been some odd contributions to this debate and perhaps the last is the one which is the most excusable. I do not think that  Senator Mason  has sat through many sessions. He would not be aware, as most honourable senators who have spoken would be aware, that it is perfectly usual towards the end of a session for General Business in the Senate to be suspended in favour of Government Business to enable the program to be completed. If  Senator Mason  were to study the record of the Senate he would find that that has certainly been the case. It has certainly been the case since I have been a senator and I think it goes back to well before that. Indeed,  Senator Cavanagh  himself conceded that, although he disagrees with that practice, it has been something which has occurred regularly because of the exigencies of Government Business. lam not in a position to give any of the undertakings that were sought by  Senator Colston  or  Senator Harradine.  However, I can say to them that the Government is concerned that private members should have an adequate opportunity to bring business before the Senate. I think that all honourable senators would agree that that is not a problem of May 1979: It is a problem which is continually with the Senate in trying to order its business. I will draw the attention of the Government to the particular matters that have been raised in this debate. But honourable senators will be aware- and there is no point in my trying to smooth over the fact- that over the remaining weeks of sittings in this place it will be necessary for the Government to see its program completed and consistent with the operations of the Senate over many years it is likely that the Government will be seeking precedence for its program. I regret that I cannot give any more of an undertaking than to say that the matters which have been raised will be taken into account. 
To some extent, of course, honourable senators have this matter in their hands. I think that it would be fair comment to say that we have spent a good deal of time in this Senate on matters of peripheral interest and importance. I say that with the greatest respect to all honourable senators who have spoken. They are entitled to speak on any matter that they wish. In a variety of circumstances, they can rise and get the call. But I do suggest that many of the matters which were raised were matters which were of less importance than the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and less important than the items of General Business which honourable senators are complaining we will not have time to consider tonight. 
I noted  Senator Mason's  comment about the Government having time to waste. I think that was answered by way of interjection from  Senator Rae.  As a Minister putting down a statement, I would quite like to read it rather than simply to sit here and listen to Opposition senators speaking on the statement. The statement in question was a matter of interest to honourable senators. That interest was demonstrated by the subsequent debate. I sought leave to incorporate the statement and we used fully 30 seconds to 60 seconds of the Senate's time to put down that statement. The subsequent speeches by  Senator Button  and  Senator Colston,  I think, warranted some government response. To have left the debate simply to those speakers would, I think, have offended a good number of Australian electors who take the situation of the flag and the distribution of it very seriously indeed. 
No, I am sorry,  Senator Colston.  You were certainly speaking in favourable terms about the issue of the flag. But I think that some of the views raised by  Senator Button  were views which, although as I said have antecedents which go back a long way, warranted challenge in this place just so that the citizens outside will know that the sorts of views that  Senator Button  was putting forward are not necessarily the views of the whole of this chamber. 

 Mr President, I genuinely regret and the Government regrets that in common with previous occasions it is necessary that we should seek to give Government Business precedence over General Business. If honourable senators are genuinely concerned about private member's business getting a hearing during the balance of this session, I ask them to assist the Government to debate the issues of importance in a prompt and concise manner so that the issues are properly aired in this place as they should be, but time is not unduly wasted, thus preventing us from giving attention to other important matters. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  1 seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill now before the Senate is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of self-propelled pedestrian operated rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers. Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its interim report No. 190 of 6 December 1978 entitled 'Certain engines not exceeding 7.46 kW; rotary cultivators; and tractors, having a power of less than 15 kW', it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a scheme providing for the payment of bounty to eligible Australian manufacturers. 
The scheme will operate from 5 February 1979 until implementation by the Government of its decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's final report which is expected on 6 October 1979. 
The rate of bounty recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission was $20 per kilowatt of engine power of the prime mover, which would have provided eligible manufacturers of bountiable machines with a bounty of $45 per unit. Acceptance of the Commission's recommendations that there be no change in the existing duty on imported components used in the manufacture of rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers and the price disadvantages that are suffered by local manufacturers of these machines against imported machines caused the Government to give careful consideration to the level of bounty assistance recommended. It became apparent that, unless additional assistance was provided, the Australian manufacturer of these machines might be forced out of business, with a consequent reduction in employees in the industry. Accordingly, the Government has decided to increase the rate of bounty payable to $40 per kilowatt of power output of the engine incorporated in the prime mover of a rotary cultivator, hoe or tiller which has an Australian content of not less than 60 per cent and which, during the period to which the Act applies, is manufactured and sold for use in Australia. This will result in payment of bounty to eligible manufacturers at the rate of $90 per unit. 
In accordance with the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission, the total annual amount of bounty payable is to be limited to $60,000. Such limitation has been imposed because the bounty scheme is a short term measure and present indications are that local production will not reach a level at which this limit will be exceeded. The Government is confident that the limitation on bounty will not inhibit the local manufacturer's ability to maintain efficient production until a decision is made on the industry's need for assistance in the long term. The assistance provided by the proposed scheme will have the effect of maintaining employment in the industry while at the same time enabling manufacturers of rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers to keep the prices of their products at levels competitive with those at which imported products are marketed. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill bc now read a second time.  1 seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

Briefly, the purpose of this Bill is to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and to give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings other than from the Commonwealth, to enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment by the Commission of moneysborrowed other than from the Commonwealthand to provide that where securities are issued by the Commission, repayment is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. The opportunity is also being taken to make a number of technical amendments to some provisions in Part II of the Act which relate to the procedures, powers and operations of the Commission. 
On 25 August 1977, the Government announced its policy that development of the Ranger uranium deposit would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd. In this regard, honourable senators will recall that in June last year, the Atomic Energy Act was amended to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to participate on behalf of the Commonwealth in a joint venture with Peko-EZ. They will also recall that on 9 January 1979 the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  signed the agreements and issued an authority under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act to give effect to the Memorandum of Understanding. These documents were tabled in the Parliament on 20 February this year. In his Budget Speech of 15 August 1978, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  noted that a certain proportion of the Commonwealth's share of the costs of developing the Ranger uranium deposits would be raised by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission through borrowings. 
The existing provisions in section 27 of the Atomic Energy Act are inadequate to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys on the semi-government market. Specifically the provisions do not authorise the Treasurer to guarantee borrowings by the Commission, and without such a guarantee the Commission would be unable to borrow within the maximum rates agreed by Loan Council for semi-government borrowings. The provisions of the Bill are designed to provide power for the Commission to issue public securities and to provide guarantee powers thereto. Clause 6 of the Bill amends a number of financial provisions of the existing Act. In relation to borrowings by the Commission the amendments, which are in line with borrowing powers of other Commonwealth authorities, provide that the Commission may borrow moneys from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and may give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings. New section 30 sub-sections (5) and (6) enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment of such borrowings and payment of interest. Provision is also included in new section 28 sub-section (2) for investment of moneys of the Commission not immediately required for the purposes of the Commission. 
Division 3 of the Act concerning staff of the Commission is repealed by the Bill and replaced with staffing provisions to bring the Act into line with more recent provisions applying to the staff of statutory authorities. These provisions retain the co-ordinating role of the Public Service Board in relation to terms and conditions of staff employed by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. In addition to amendments to the borrowing powers of the Commission which, as mentioned earlier, are contained in clause 6 of the Bill, that clause also makes technical amendments to a number of financial provisions of the existing Act concerning payment to the Commission of moneys appropriated by Parliament, use of bank accounts, application of moneys by the Commission, preparation of estimates, keeping of accounts and audit of accounts. Section 30B provides for an increase in the value of contracts, from $50,000 to $200,000 above which ministerial approval is required. Other technical amendments will be explained as necessary in the Committee stage. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled National Highways Linking Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra- Third Report: Canberra Connections, 1979'. 
-What information I have about the matters raised by the honourable senator I have read in the newspapers, so I will refer his question to  Mr Nixon  for a detailed reply. 
I will refer the question to  Mr Nixon  for reply. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945 I present the annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
2 ) The Government has not yet decided its policy regarding the development of commercial FM broadcasting. However, I have arranged for further information to be made available for consideration by my colleagues and hope to make an announcement soon. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The public telephones at the Lowood Post Office are to be replaced with new units providing STD facilities and opportunity will be taken to re-site them from wooden cabinets on the porch of the Post Office to aluminium cabinets on the footpath outside the Post Office. 
Yes. 
a ) The Esk Shire Council. 
The Council advised they preferred the site to remain unaltered as the present site is in a sheltered position. Reasons for the relocation are to improve the visibility of the units to the public and to reduce opportunities for vandalism and misuse. This has been explained to the Council. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has indicated to me certain problems which the Commission has encountered. As I have previously indicated in Parliament the Government is presently examining these and related matters. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Colinton area telephone services are being converted to automatic working and a new STD public telephone will be installed at the same time. 
Yes. 
The Esk Shire Council. 
The Council advised they preferred the new public telephone to be generally in the same location as the existing one and on the same side of the highway. The proposed site is in accordance with these wishes. 
Public Telephones at Lowood, Queensland (Question No. 1251) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On the basis of information provided to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal by licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables have been prepared to show the details requested under parts ( 1 ), (2) and (3) of the question. These tables show details of radio and television broadcasts of election speeches and political advertisements for the period 12 September 1 978 (date of issue of writs) to 4 October 1 979. 
1 ) Election speeches and political advertisements. 
The honourable senator has asked a number of questions on matters of detail which are outside my portfolio responsibilities. I noticed his request for a general reply or for some sort of reply before I sit down, but I point out to the honourable senator that in this chamber no prizes are awarded for guessing. I shall simply put his question to the appropriate Minister. 
I have nothing to add to the answer I have given. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting to which the honourable senator refers received a lot of publicity. I think it would be well known to honourable senators that two States, South Australia and New South Wales, did refuse to go along with the other States in delaying the implementation of the third stage of the air pollution recommendations. As far as I am aware, no independent figures were put to the conference by South Australia. On the figures which are available to ATAC, South Australia is not one of the real problem areas. Sydney appears to be the most seriously affected city, and that is probably the basis of the New South Wales attitude. Melbourne is affected to a somewhat lesser degree. But Perth, Brisbane and Adelaide have lower figures than Sydney has. 
The Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council met in Adelaide only last Friday.  Senator Robertson  has correctly indicated that the Ministers attending that meeting expressed the view that the Commonwealth must spend more. As to any decisions relating to a direct comment on Commonwealth funding, I should say that, in light of the present Budget discussions, I stepped back and simply asked that I should note the resolution of the other Ministers. They did make a quite clear statement that they thought Commonwealth funding was inadequate and that more should be spent. I would have to say that I do not think that they were explicit in relating what they saw as current Aboriginal disadvantage to the funding history of the last few years. Rather, there was a concentration on pointing out to me areas of need that they saw as requiring to be filled, and filled by Commonwealth rather than State initiative. 
I am aware that in the United Kingdom there is some provision of the sort mentioned by  Senator Sibraa.  I think that parallels between the British broadcasting system and our own are somewhat difficult to draw because of the quite different control which the British Government exercises over broadcasting generally in the United Kingdom. In light of the considerable public interest which has been expressed in public access to what would be regarded as national sporting occasions, I will refer the honourable senator's suggestion to  Mr Staley  for consideration. 
Earlier this year a couple of questions were asked by  Senator Cavanagh  about a man called Tiger Yadjajeri who was involved in an accident. He was riding a horse and was struck by an aircraft.  Senator Cavanagh  's question relates to two items. The first is, whether or not there has been an investigation of the accident by the Department of Transport. I want it recorded that  Senator Cavanagh  has been advised of the details by letter. An investigation was held. Secondly, he raised the question of workers compensation. I am now advised that  Mr Yadjajeri  has received the full amount of workers compensation due to him. I have not been able to find out whether he has any prospect of a common law claim but that matter is being followed up, I understand, by the Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia.  Mr Yadjajeri  is now at Hooker Creek in the Northern Territory. I am advised that the Aboriginal Legal Service has this matter under consideration. 
Pursuant to paragraph 1 1 of the Third Schedule of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952 I present the annual financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries for the year ended 1 July 1978. 
For the information of honourable senators 1 present a report prepared by the Department of Transport entitled 'The Transport Planning and Research Program: Report of Progress to 30 June 1978'. The report, which was produced at the request of State authorities, provides an example of the cooperation being achieved between States and the Commonwealth under the Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Act 1977. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
1 ) to (7) In Senate  Hansard of 2  May 1979 (page 1609) the Prime Minister provided an answer to Senate Question No. 1335 on Overseas Visits. Please refer to that answer for the purposes of Question No. 1341. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I will move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. 
Pursuant to Section 6 of the Australian Science and Technology Council Act 19781 present a report of the Australian Science and Technology Council on the next generation of Australian telescopes. 
Pursuant to Section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 I present the 1978-79 reports of the New South Wales, Victorian, Queensland, South Australian, Western Australian, and Tasmanian local government grants commissions on financial assistance for local government in each of those six States. Due to the limited number available, copies of the reports have been placed in the Senate Records Office and the Parliamentary Library. The determinations on allocations to local government authorities for1978-79 were abstracted from the reports and have already been presented to the Senate. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) $3,450.00. 
$25,957.00. 
$25,957.00. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics has provided the following details of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander population of Australia: 
I have seen reports of the International Energy Agency making the plea referred to by the honourable senator in his question. That, of course, is in line with the concern being expressed around the world with respect to the general oil shortage. I was not aware of the other facts to which the honourable senator referred, in particular the fact that Algeria had raised its oil price by the percentage which he has mentioned. All honourable senators will know that there have been very significant rises over the earlier part of this year. In light of the facts which the honourable senator has mentioned, I will refer the matter to  Mr Nixon,  who has already reported to the Parliament on the recent Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting, to see whether it will be possible to take the sort of action with respect to New South Wales and South Australia which has been requested by the honourable senator. 

 - Senator Rae asked a series of questions. The first is whether it is a fact that the TAA report was tabled and made public for the first time yesterday. The answer to that question is yes, it was tabled yesterday in the Senate and,  I  think, in the other place. Another question related to when Ansett Transport Industries made its annual report.  Senator Rae  referred to 28 October 1978.  I  am unable to confirm or deny whether that date is correct but as the honourable senator gave me that date  I  have no doubt that it is correct.  I  am not aware that TAA submitted accounts to the Government on 6 September 1978. 1 will make an inquiry of  Mr Nixon  to see whether that is so. If it is so,  I  am not aware why there was a delay between last September and yesterday in the production of those figures to the Parliament.  I  certainly agree that reports of that nature are most useful and relevant when they are produced close to the time to which they relate. Obviously it is of assistance to honourable senators and honourable members in their assessments of the operations of public statutory bodies to have up-to-date reporting on them. For that reason  I  think that  Senator Rae  has raised a matter of serious interest.  I  will endeavour to get a reply from  Mr Nixon  to his questions. 
I am not aware of the matters which have been brought to my attention by  Senator Keeffe  's question. I will make some inquiries into the matters and give the honourable senator a reply. However, if there were a motor vehicle accident in which passengers were injured, unless the law in the Northern Territory is very different from the law anywhere else, those people normally would be entitled to receive some form of compensation. Of course, there are legal aid services in the Northern Territory which ought to be able to ensure that those people receive their legal rights. I will follow up the matters and make sure that, if the situation is as indicated by  Senator Keeffe,  the legal rights of the people concerned are being pursued. 
I should like to clear up a much more minor misunderstanding. On 9 May,  Senator Primmer  asked me a question about the Government's failure to respond to an inquiry about an Omega base. At the end of Question Time I indicated that a letter had been sent to  Senator Primmer  some time before but that I would await his permission before seeking leave to incorporate it in  Hansard.  Senator Primmer  has indicated that he has no objection. Accordingly I seek leave to have the letter incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows: 

Minister for Transport Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 27 March 1979 
Dear  Senator Primmer, 
On 22 November 1978 and again on 13 March 1979 you raised in a Question Without Notice several matters with respect ofthe capability of Omega. 
I am aware of statements attributed in the media to  Mr Ireson  of Ansett Airlines of Australia. I am also aware of the replies by  Mr Ireson  to correspondents who quoted his comments out of context. In the Melbourne  Age  of the 4th of January this year  Mr Ireson  wrote: 
The remarks accredited to me by  Mr J.  B. Ellis (28/12) are only part of the story. As stated in the  Courier Mail  article quoted, my remarks referred to the Omega system "as it is developed at the moment".' 
He went on to say: the utility of Omega for commercial aviation and shipping would be vastly expanded by the introduction ofthe proposed Australian station '. 
With regard to your second question, it is true that the Omega signals are affected by both the earth 's magnetic field and by dry soil conditions. These effects are however well known and documented in technical literature. Use of Omega signals in the Australiasian area will take into account these points along with other technical effects already well known and recorded. 
Yours sincerely, 
P.J.NIXON 
Before  Senator Ryan  spoke I was a little mystified as to why the Opposition was bringing forward this motion. I remain somewhat mystified about it.  Senator Ryan  concluded her speech by making a series of statements as to the broad matters the Opposition would like to achieve. With some possible qualification as to the last matter, on which as far as I know the Government has made no decision, I thought that she made a series of statements with which all honourable senators and indeed the Government could agree. At the end of her speech she suggested, as the motion of urgency actually states, that the issues surrounding the proposed communications satellite for Australia have not been clarified. That proposition simply has not been made out. Rather, although  Senator Ryan  said that the Government should have declared a position on some of these matters, I suggest that quite clearly we have some way to go before we can make a final decision on many of the matters she raised. 
The history of this matter clearly shows that the Government has been concerned to isolate the very real issues that arise when one is considering the establishment of a satellite system. In the limited time that we have agreed should be devoted to this debate, I would like to refer to three things: Firstly, the lead up to this matter, which took the form of a public inquiry; secondly, the result of that inquiry; and thirdly, the follow-up to the inquiry undertaken by the government. To complain about a failure to clarify the issues flies in the face of the document from which  Senator Ryan  quoted in her speech. If one looks at the report of the Task Force on a National Communications Satellite System, put down in July 1978, one will find in the terms of reference a Government awareness of the substantial issues that arise. There is a reference in the opening pages of this document to the fact that the inquiry was asked to investigate and evaluate the social, economic, technical, policy and other issues associated with the establishment and operation of an Australian national communications satellite system. There is a requirement that particular regard be paid to various matters, including the potential to provide high quality radio and television broadcasting and other telecommunications services to all Australians. 
In 1977 the present Government established that a range of issues required determination before any final decisions could be made on a satellite system. The report was brought forward in July 1 978, and it canvasses these and other areas and makes a series of recommendations. That public document has been available now for some eight or nine months and has enabled those members of the public and organisations who are interested to focus on the sorts of issues which  Senator Ryan  has raised here today. I think that some reference to the statement of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  when he put down that report in the. Parliament on 27 September 1978, gives the lie to the motion that has been brought forward today.  Mr Staley  commended the report and pointed out that the Task Force had drawn on existing expertise in government departments and statutory authorities. It had received submissions and had conducted public hearings in all States. The Minister then dealt with the various issues raised by the report, which largely coincide with the questions raised today by  Senator Ryan.  From there the Government proceeded to ask for public participation in the consideration of the recommendations of the Task Force report. The Government has done a substantial amount of work to ensure that it receives the benefit of the differing views that exist in the community. 
I am a little puzzled about  Senator Ryan's  opening remarks. She complained- in fact I think that this was her very first complaint- that only a particular form of satellite is being considered and that the Government is looking only at relay and not direct broadcasting arrangements. I should have thought that there was plenty of evidence on the public record, and in particular in the statements of  Mr Staley  on his return from Canada, to indicate that the Government is extremely interested in the possibility of having a satellite that will enable direct broadcasting to occur. Australian officers have gone to Canada to examine the technical matters seen by  Mr Staley  on his trip overseas and Canadian officers will be coming to Australia to examine and demonstrate the technology of direct broadcasting. I am at a loss to know how  Senator Ryan  can suggest that the Government is interested only in relay broadcasting. 
The Minister has accepted the Canadian Government's offer to demonstrate in Australia the capabilities of direct broadcasting by moving the Hermes satellite into a location suitable for transmitting signals to a large area of New South Wales and Queensland. Arrangements have already been made for trials to be held in Australia which will enable experiments to be conducted over a period of four weeks in August. Canadian officers will be bringing a number of small earth stations to demonstrate, in a number of locations, the direct broadcasting capabilities of the satellite. The Minister has also advised that  Dr John  Chapman, the Assistant  Deputy  Minister of the Canadian Department of Communications, will be in Australia during the week commencing 28 May 1979 and will be available to discuss Canadian developments with members of the Government and the Opposition. As part of the Government's public consideration of this report and of the prospect of satellite communication, it is considering the very matter that  Senator Ryan  complained was not receiving consideration. 
I am sure that  Senator Ryan  will be aware that since the report was published the Government has established a working group of senior officials who were available to receive submissions from the community until 31 March 1979, some six months after the report was tabled. It is the work of those officials to evaluate the submissions, together with the Task Force report, and they have been asked to report to the Government by 30 June 1979. To suggest that the Government should in some way declare its position on the matters raised by  Senator Ryan,  prior to the submissions being considered and the officials having a chance to report, in my view flies in the face of normal and sensible procedures. The working group has received 165 submissions from individuals and organisations throughout the community. I know that  Senator 
Ryan has had contact with many of those groups at the public seminars that have been held, and I suggest to her that it is quite clear that the issues about which she has expressed concern are issues which have attracted the interest of many of those individuals and groups and on which views have been expressed to the Government and the community generally. The process which is being followed ensures that the Government is getting the benefit of the views of all those people who are interested and that it will be in a position to make decisions which are sensible and in the national interest and which in no way diminish the importance of the points of principle raised by the honourable senator in her address. 
I suppose that one of the difficulties in this area is the fact that technological development is occurring at a rate which can make decisions that are made today the wrong decisions tomorrow. One of the marked features of the reaction of the Government to this area of policy since the report was published has been the public statements by  Mr Staley  about the technology that is available through Canada, as against the technology that was thought to be available at the time the report was published. I should have thought that all those people who are concerned about the paucity of communication in some of the remote areas of Australia would welcome the fact that this Government is examining seriously the recommendation that it should establish a domestic satellite system. I am sure they would welcome the fact that the Government has given the public and interest groups an opportunity to participate and they would welcome the fact that we are pursuing technological inquiries not only in Canada but also in other countries which have something to offer. 
One complaint that cannot be made is that the real changes which will occur in Australia if any extensive satellite communication system is introduced will have a substantial impact on a number of areas. All those areas are receiving attention. The Government will make its decisions on these matters in the light of the public debate that has been held and the best information which can be found by using the procedures available. The Government of course opposes the urgency motion of  Senator Ryan  and assures the Australian public that it will continue to give careful consideration to the issues surrounding the proposed communications satellite for Australia. It looks forward to the developments in the next year which will do much to ensure that the remote areas of Australia will receive better services than they are receiving at present. 
Senior  BUTTON (Victoria) (4.6)-The Senate is debating an urgency motion proposed by  Senator Ryan  which refers to the failure of the Government to clarify issues surrounding the proposed communications satellite for Australia.  Senator Chaney  expressed concern and worry about why that should seem to be either a matter of public importance or a matter of urgency. Of course, the Government itself has said that there should be public debate on this issue. I take it that the Government envisages that the expression 'public debate' would include debate in the Senate- unless this matter is one of those matters which we are not allowed to debate which is being debated everywhere else. In the introduction of the report of the Commonwealth Government task force on the National Communications Satellite System to which  Senator Chaney  referred, the task force made two points under the heading of 'Public Consideration Of This Report'. Firstly, it made the point that the hearings that were conducted made it clear that there is a limited understanding in the community, of many of the features of a national communication satellite system and, in a number of quarters, apprehension regarding its likely impact upon certain interests. 
The report goes on to say that there are grave doubts about employment consequences and so on. These matters are properly matters of community concern. I agree with the task force that there is a limited understanding in the community about the satellite and there is indeed a great deal of apprehension about its consequences. If one watches the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  on television talking about this issue or indeed any other issue, one sees that brilliant imitation that he does of a cross between a cherub and a chartered accountant. As he comes to deal with the question of a satellite he takes on the aura of a clean-cut father Christmas as he explains the great benefits which the satellite will bring to certain very small sections of the Australian community. 
As a sort of aide memoire of what he is talking about, one can see him saying to himself: Twinkle, twinkle DOMSAT star, how I wonder what your are, up above the world so high, like a diamond in the sky'. I wish to illustrate the essential issues about which the public is properly concerned. The satellite will be a diamond in the sky. Clearly many members of the public do not know what the satellite is and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications does not intend to tell them when he talks about these issues on television. It is very important that, in a debate in the Senate or in public, or when we try to engender discussion about this topic, we raise some of the matters that are not dealt with. There is legitimate public apprehension and concern which the Government has not only the opportunity but also the responsibility to alleviate. 
If the Government is as diligent as its rhetoric would suggest in terms of cost benefit analyses, it has a responsibility to give the public one suggestion about what the likely cost of a satellite would be rather than the three or four which have been given. There are vast discrepancies in the estimates of the cost of a domestic satellite. One has to have regard to the Treasury position on this. One would have thought that by now the Government would be in a position to give some indication of its views about the ownership of a domestic satellite. It ought to be in a position by now to give some indication of the likely users of a domestic satellite and perhaps give some indication in technological terms of what an appropriate audit of the value of its use might be. It might also be in a position to state the situation in relation to the real issue of concern, the question of social costs and particularly the question of employment. 
A number of organisations with members employed by Telecom and other bodies which might be affected by the introduction of a domestic satellite, have made estimates of the likely unemployment consequences. Opposition senators-  Senator Ryan  in particular- have asked questions on notice- which have been unanswered for a long time- on a number of really important issues, lt is in relation to these matters that I believe the Government has a responsibility to relieve the apprehensions of sections of the community and also a responsibility in time- I appreciate what  Senator Chaney  said about that- to resolve some of these issues. Time and time again, when public statements about the satellite are made by members of the Government they do precisely what  Senator Chaney  did here today- concentrate on one aspect of the proposed communications satellite, its benefit to outlying communities in Australia. This question has been raised in Australian politics over a very long period. In the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government there were great technological opportunities to make communication services available to outlying communities which electorally had been taken for granted by Liberal-Country Party governments. Nothing was done to take advantage of those opportunities in that period. 
The essential issues relating to the satellite can be seen as the tip of the iceberg in relation to the whole technological debate which is taking place in Australia now. For that reason if for no other I think that the Government has an obligation in this matter. The satellite is a small part, a microcosm of that debate. It is an issue on which clear guidelines should be laid down. Clear explanations should be made to the community about the issues involved. We in the Opposition have no doubts about the communications benefits which a domestic satellite could bring to Australia. It could have immense advantages to outlying communities in terms of telecommunications generally. It could have immense advantages particularly to the 2 per cent to 3 per cent of Australians who now live beyond the reach of conventional telecommunications and who do not have the benefit of television or telephone services- or in some cases even radio, I suspect. More importantly, it could have immense advantages for the 35 per cent of Australians who live beyond the reach of a second television channel. That is important. 
There seems to be undue concentration on that 2 per cent of Australians, although I understand that they are very important. But one of the great advantages of the satellite is that it could bring a two-channel service to 35 per cent of the Australian community which are presently denied it. Whether an extra service is provided by an additional commercial television channel or a further Australian Broadcasting Commission channel is a matter for debate. In the circumstances of a satellite there is probably no reason why the extra services could not be provided to outback communities by both types of television services. That is of tremendous cultural importance to Australia, apart  from  its merely improving the normal communication system. So we regard that as important and we in the Opposition are very sympathetic to it. Again I repeat that this is all the Government has said about the issue. Again and again the Minister repeats it. Indeed, he spends time in outback communities telling people about the benefits it will bring to them. There is little information provided regarding other issues of concern which relate to a far wider community in Australia. 
The second great benefit which a communications satellite can bring to Australia- I think it is of the utmost importance- is a first class communications system. This is essential to a modern economy, something we hope we will have the benefit of creating after the present Government is defeated at the next election. For this reason, if for no other, we have a vested interest in the creation of a first class communications system. It is absolutely crucial in terms of the perceived needs of the Australian economy in the remaining years of this century that we have a first class communications system of this kind. I would like a great deal more information to be provided by the Government about the way in which such a communications system would be used not only by the Government but also by private industry. 
I have already alluded to another opportunity it provides and that is additional broadcasting services throughout Australia. As  Senator Ryan  has said- it has been said publicly on numerous occasions in the context of discussion about the satellite- there is grave concern, perhaps misapprehension, about the results of the introduction of the satellite. It is as a result of those questions that we think that the Government should be prompted by a debate of this kind to provide quickly a little more information about the Government's intentions and about the possibilities and matters of that kind which have not been alluded to in the course of this or any other debate. More particularly, the Government should provide as quickly as possible further information about the other costs involved to the people of Australia. I can assure honourable senators on the Government side that as soon as possible after this Parliament resumes in August we will give them the opportunity again to engage in a debate on this issue. Perhaps on that occasion we will be able to get a little more information from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications than the trad lore that we get from the Government about the benefits to outlying communities. 
Debate the wording of the motion. 
by leave- I wish to advise the Senate of the Government's decision to hold an independent review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In accord with that decision, a three-member committee of review will be appointed to consider and report to the Government on the services, policies and performance of the Commission under its present statutory charter, and recommend appropriate future objectives, functions, statutory powers and policies of the Commission. It will be obvious from the terms of reference, which I will detail, that this is a wide-ranging review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which will not only identify current problems but, hopefully, will also offer solutions to maintain the ABC as an essential part of the Australian broadcasting system in the years ahead. 
There has not been a review of the ABC's role since the Commission was established in 1 932. In other countries, publicly funded national broadcasting services have been subject to such public inquiries. In 1976 the Green Inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting System came to the conclusion that the policies and performance of the ABC should be subject to review every seven years, starting in 1 980. The Government at that time adopted in principle the concept of an inquiry into the ABC, and has now decided that this review should begin later this year. It has also decided that the committee of review should report by March 1981. 
The Government has given careful consideration to the appropriate type of inquiry required, and has decided that the most satisfactory approach is for an objective and independent review conducted by a chairman and two other members specially appointed for the task. The Government believes that this will provide the necessary flexibility and informality, particularly in view of the Green Inquiry recommendation that such reviews of the Australian Broadcasting Commission be held periodically. The committee of review will invite submissions from all sectors of the community. The invitation for comment will extend to staff of the Commission who will be encouraged to put forward their views. Whether discussions should be sought with persons or organisations making submissions will be for the committee to judge. 
During the Green Inquiry, concern was expressed that the Commission 's  policies and  performance were constrained by the legislative, administrative, regulatory and funding framework within which it operated. It was submitted that the ABC's ability to hold its place as an essential and innovative force within Australian broadcasting was made difficult under the present broad terms of its charter, and a definitive description of the ABC's role and responsibility to the community was long overdue. The Government has therefore decided that the Terms of Reference for the review should be as follows: 
. Having regard to the statutory powers and functions of the ABC as set out in Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, the committee of review shall examine and report on the services, policies and performances of the Commission. 
The committee shall examine and make recommendations on the appropriate future objectives, functions, statutory powers and policies of the Commission, with particular reference to its provision of national, State and regional services, having regard to the extent of likely available resources, reports relevant to the field of broadcasting and the services provided by public and commercial broadcasters. 
Without otherwise limiting its scope, the Committee shall also review, comment on the effectiveness of and make recommendations as necessary on the Commission's: 
relationships with other government bodies; 
programming policies and procedures for the maintenance of program standards; 
funding arrangements, including forward planning, budgeting and revenue; 
d ) management systems, including: 
the relationship between the statutory Commission and the management structure which services it; 
lines of authority in management and constraints on managerial effectiveness; 
manpower planning and staff utilisation; 
recruitment, staff development, tenure of appointment and training; 
industrial relations; 
arrangements for management improvement, review and systems development; and 
resource allocation practices and planning for technological developments. 

 Mr President, the Government is committed to the continued existence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as a vital and innovative force within Australian broadcasting. It looks to this review as a vehicle whereby the ABC can be made fully aware of its success or otherwise in serving the Australian community. It is an important initiative both for the ABC and for the future of broadcasting in Australia. I present the following paper: 
Australian Broadcasting Commission- Ministerial Statement, 23 May 1979  and move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The Government's policy is for domestic air fares to bc as low as practicable. 
The Government encourages the airlines to offer a wide range of domestic air fares to enable all people who wish to travel by air to be able to do so. 
In this context I approved the introduction of standby fares last year which are discounted by 30 per cent below the economy fare. Standby fares are available between all adjacent State Capital cities as well as between Launceston and Melbourne. 
I recently announced a major new domestic air fares package. This package included an expansion of the existing 25 per cent discount domestic Apex (Advanced Purchase Excursion ) scheme to now cover all jet airports served by TAA and Ansett. In addition a new Super Apex scheme providing a 40 per cent discount on the return economy fare has been introduced for certain periods of the year. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Australian Government does not have a formal bilateral Air Services Agreement with the Government of any Middle East country receiving Australian meat exports by air, and therefore has no direct Government to Government channel through which it could renegotiate air freight rates. Such negotiations must be initiated through the scheduled airlines of the countries concerned. The results of any airline negotiations would then be submitted to the respective Governments for their approval. 
Enquiries by my Department indicate that the level of air freight charges is not the priniciple difficulty facing meat exports. Scheduled airlines are presently carrying to the Middle East about twice the amount of meat being carried by non-scheduled airlines. Rather, the difficulties lie in areas such as transhipment. During the recent visit of an Australian Government mission to Bahrain, the problems involved in chilled meat transhipment were raised with the Bahrain Government. As a result a technical committee has been set up, comprising representatives of Qantas (which operates 10 Boeing 747 services a week through Bahrain) Gulf Air, the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the Bahrain airport authorities, to examine the ways in which the trade in air-freighted chilled meat to the Gulf might best be developed. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
TAA sought approval by letter dated 1 1 December 1978 for a proposal whereby TAA's F27 services on the 
Townsville-Mount isa route would be replaced by Metro aircraft services operated by Bush Pilot Airways. After that date informal discussions were held between my Department and those operators. The proposal was not followed up by the operators when the Queensland Government opposed it. 
Ministerial Meetings with Business Consultants  (Question No. 1202) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The honourable senator is referred to the Prime Minister's reply to a similar question on page 1 609 of Senate  Hansard  of 2 May 1979. 
Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory: Overseas Visits (Question No. 1359) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Qantas Airways Ltd staff superannuation plan came into effect on I June 1939 with major amendments being made, effective I July 1968. The twelve months qualifying period has been in existence since July 1950. 
The plan is effectively administered with appropriate written records being kept which are subject to Commonwealth Audit scrutiny. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (b) On 17 December 1978 both flights were cancelled, together with most other domestic flights, due to a nation wide industrial dispute. On 3 1 December 1978, 7 and 28 January 1979 the Brisbane-Maryborough flight was cancelled due to extremely light loadings. 
On 17 December 1978 no alternative flights could be arranged. On the three other ocassions the few passengers involved were transferred to Flight 292, from Brisbane to Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, that departed sixty-five minutes later. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. A charter for Aboriginal Legal Services has been under consideration for some time. In addition, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, at my request, is inquiring into Aboriginal access to legal aid. 1 am also arranging a review of the operations of the Aboriginal Legal Services in New South Wales. 
I shall consider whether new guidelines are desirable in the light of the review; and 
b ) if so, I shall inform the Senate. 
-On 22 February 1979,  Senator Watson  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, concerns the interim profit of Telecom Australia. When there is a change in accounting practice it is normal reporting procedure to indicate the dollar effect of such a change. Firstly, why was this not done in reporting the interim profit of Telecom and what was the amount involved? Secondly, why were substantial capital cost to Telecom written off in the year in which the costs were incurred instead of being carried forward or allocated to future years which would benefit from those costs, as is the recognised accounting practice in this country? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Telecommunications Act 1 975 requires the Australian Telecommunications Commission to furnish the Minister as soon as practicable after 30 June each year a Balance Sheet and other financial statements in respect of the operations of the Commission for that year. These statements, which are audited and reported upon by the Auditor-General and reflect a high standard of disclosure, are prepared in accordance with standards promulgated by professional accounting bodies and appear in the Commission's Annual Report which is tabled in Parliament. 
There is no statutory requirement for the Commission to submit other than annual financial statements but the inclusion of an interim trading result in the Chairman's announcement covering all Commission activities for the six months to 3 1 December is in keeping with normal business practice. The interim result while being established in accordance with normal annual closing of accounts procedures is not subject to audit by the staff  of  the Auditor-General's Office. It Ls not the Commission's practice to quantify elements ofthe interim result beyond those required of public companies reporting half-yearly results to the stock exchange, that is, turnover, depreciation charges and interest on borrowings. 
On the general question of a change in accounting practice, the Australian Telecommunicaions Commission has a responsibility to keep its accounting policies and practices under review so as to accord with developments within the accounting profession. As part of the continuing review a study was made of the treatment of indirect costs in the accounts. The study researched the statements of Australian and Overseas Accounting Bodies, the writings of acceptable experts, and the practices of overseas telecommunications organisations, Australian public utilities and the business community generally. 
The outcome of the review was that there was insufficient justification for maintaining the level of administrative expenditure formerly capitalised and in 1977-78 changes in the treatment of administrative expenditure at Commission Headquarters were introduced, resulting in certain administration costs, which in other years had been charged to Asset Accounts, being expensed. In accordance with normal accounting practice, the effects of these changes were disclosed in the Commission 's Annual Report for 1 977-78. 
Currently the Commission is reviewing the treatment of administrative expenditure at State Head Office level for application in the 1978-79 Accounts and full details will be disclosed in the current year's Annual Report. These changes were foreshadowed in the Commission's Service and Business Outlook for 1978-79 tabled in the Parliament on IS August 1978. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) Decisions that particular industries require study and aid through an Industry Program Group are made by various authorities. In respect of the seven Industry Program Groups (IPGs) currently working, such decisions were made as follows: 
Textiles, Clothing and Footwear IPGs- formed as a result of Government decision; 
Tyre IPG- formed as a result of a Temporary Assistance Authority Report on the Tyre Industry of September 1977; 
Tanning IPG- formed with my agreement in February 1978 as a result of a request from the Federated Tanners Association of Australia, and a desire expressed by the Footwear IPG, which was already operating, to include suppliers (tanning is complimentary to footwear as well as being of export significance); 
Whitegoods IPG- formed following Industries Assistance Commission Report No. 16 of 3 February 1978; and 
Forging IPG- recently formed in order to adopt the tripartite approach in a program that predated the IPG concept (forging was the first pilot program within which operating techniques have been tested ). 
For the honourable senator's information, requests have been received from seven other industries for my Department to work with them. In general terms, the referrals from the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority are likely to absorb most of the effort available in the Department in the short-term future. 
As regards criteria for selecting particular industries which require study and aid, the criteria in genera] are as follows: a perceived need; a willingness on the industry's part to work with my Department; and the availability of departmental resources. 
The priority of other matters such as labour intensiveness of the industry, its contribution to Gross Domestic Product, strategic value, export potential and the like are very important criteria for selection of work areas but these have not yet been employed as all available resources have been committed to the industry sectors to which the Department has been directed by other Government decisions. 
Representation is determined by round table talks with industry and unions. Where a number of unions are involved in an industry, representation is requested from the one or two largest and, by arrangement with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the remainder are kept informed through the ACTU. 
None. 
It is not possible to identify with any accuracy, the costs attributable to the activities of each IPG. This is because the management of each Industry Program overlaps those activities which have been initiated by each IPG. 
The cost of operating each tripartite IPG is shared between each ofthe organisations represented. The major cost to the Department has been the administrative cost associated with the fares and allowances necessary for departmental members attending the regular meetings. 
All the industries involved in IPGs have benefited. The way in which they have benefited varies slightly from industry to industry. For example in the footwear industry, the IPG has published a footwear report which has been distributed to all footwear manufacturers and is accepted as a standard referral document in the industry for improving company efficiency. In addition, technical standards have been established for one particular style of shoe making (cemented soles) and these standards have been published. An investigation is now underway to investigate the general area of 'clicking' in the industry. Two seminars on items of specific interest to the industry have been run and specialised training courses have been set up in co-operation with the Industry Training Council. Individual help has been given to a number of companies. Group membership of the Shoe and Allied Trade Research Association of Great Britain has been arranged and subsidised. This will give all industry members direct access to all the latest materials, technology and test facilities. 
In the clothing industry, demonstration programs have been carried out in one firm and a second set are under way in another firm. These have been written up and publicised and the results are available to any clothing firm interested, including discussion and demonstration. The Clothing IPG has also run a specialised training course in consultation with other departments on lay planning. Further courses on such matters as management and control systems are being planned. 
The textile group is not quite so far advanced but a report to the industry on the towelling sector has been proposed and is about to be published; the report demonstrates areas of corporate efficiency and inefficiency. 
In the tanning industry an active program on materials handling is under way, and in the tyre program the industry is currently discussing product rationalisation- including with the Trade Practices Commission. 
In the area of working environment, at least two companies and one union have held discussions with departmental experts on the possibility of setting up 9-day fortnights, and assistance on new factory layout to ensure optimum working conditions has been given to others. 
The honourable senator will appreciate that these are but some of the highlights ofthe work done in this area. The general reaction of industry to the programs has been particularly favourable. The Department's work with other industries is limited only by departmental resources. 
Eligibility criteria are set out in detail in S4 ( I ) ofthe Industrial Research and Development Act 1976. In addition on 6 April 1977, 1 issued a direction that the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board shall take into consideration, when evaluating applications from companies for grants for industrial research and development projects, the following criteria: 
the technical and commercial merits of the project, including its likely contribution to improvements in industry efficiency and in utilisation of resources, particularly Australian resources; 
the capability and resources of the company to undertake, or have undertaken, the research and development work necessary; 
the ability of the company to exploit commercially the results ofthe project; 
the need by the company for the provision of Commonwealth financial assistance to permit the necessary research and development work and the commercial exploitation of the project to proceed at a satisfactory level and within a reasonable period of time. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) National surveys have been undertaken on a regular basis to identify management and personnel practices influencing productivity and the quality of work life of employees. 
The Department of Productivity's Human Relations Branch has undertaken specific surveys on subjects which include absence from work, varied working hours, shift work, induction and recruitment practices and redundancy practices. 
New surveys now being developed will examine the impact of new technology and personnel attitudes toward parttime work and work sharing. 
Also through the Department's association with the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia (PPCA) surveys are made of a variety of aspects of productivity. In 1978 two surveys were completed, one in the area of physical distribution and the other concerning enterprise productivity measurement. In November 1978 a third survey commenced into computer-aided manufacture. 
Details of these three surveys are as follows: 
Physical Distribution Management (PDM) 
The survey was conducted jointly with the Caulfield Institute of Technology and covered 205 manufacturing and tertiary industry business undertakings. Its aim was to establish how the management of physical distribution is organised in Australian industry and to identify strategies for improving efficiency through an integrated approach to PDM. The relevant report was released in November 1978. 
The significance of this study rests on the fact that physical distribution costs the Australian economy between 15 per cent and 30 per cent of Gross Domestic Product. 
Enterprise Productivity Measurement 
The survey covered 150 PPCA member companies and was aimed at establishing the current state of the art at enterprise level. 
Computer-aided Manufacture 
The study is aimed at establishing the extent of use of this technology in the typical Australian business. This study is still under way. 
Representative samples are developed for these surveys and consequently, all industries are encompassed in the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors of the economy. 
The results of the surveys of the Human Relations Branch are published in the quarterly journal, 'Work and People'. Specific reports are also produced and distributed to survey participants and others with a direct interest. 
The results of the two surveys which were conducted with the PPCA, and have been completed, were: 
Physical Distribution Management Survey (PDM) 
The survey indicated that management of physical dis  tribution in Australia today is only partially integrated, by contrast with the more fully integrated management of the function in advanced overseas industrial economics; that the Australian tendency is to fail to co-ordinate enterprise-level marketing, production and data processing functions with the physical distribution function; and that a major reason for this was the typical organisational structures in Australian business do not provide for a single line of authority to link these functions. 
Enterprise Productivity Measurement 
As a result of this survey, which showed that only 3 per cent of Australian enterprises make a total measure of enterprise productivity, a program of workshops on the technique to assist implementation of appropriate methodologies has commenced. 
Ministerial Meetings with Business Consultants  (Question No. 1183) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) and (2) The Department of Transport is aware ofthe statement by the Maroochy Shire Chairman, Councillor E. D. DeVere. however, no firm proposals have yet been formulated on this matter. 
There is a possibility that jet aircraft could be introduced into some air services in NSW and Queensland into airports such as Maroochy at sometime in the future to cater for growth in traffic and the inevitable need to replace the existing F27 aircraft. However, the Department has had only preliminary discussions with the airlines regarding their proposed timing for the introduction of jet aircraft, the possible aerodromes that they would operate at and the type of aircraft that may be used. Extensive investigation work will have to be undertaken to justify the upgrading of the services as considerable expenditure will be required not only to improve the aerodromes but to provide the required standard of air traffic control and emergency services. For these reasons a decision on the upgrading of some Queensland air services to jet standard cannot be expected for a considerable time. 
Although some additional staff would be required, it is not possible to quantify the requirement until a firm proposal is received. 
Anzac Day Ceremonies in Queensland  (Question No.  1581) 

 - Senator Bishop is correct in saying that this matter has been raised on other occasions in the Senate. There have been requests for funds to be provided by the Commonwealth Government. There have also been references to the 1 977 election promise to which he has referred. The total detail of this matter is no longer with me but my recollection is that the Commonwealth provides funds to the State Government for national highway construction. Those funds are subject to approval for specified projects. In fact,  Mr Nixon  has made representations to the State Government to ensure that funds would be spent on the improvement and upgrading of the Stuart Highway. This matter has been raised before in the Senate both in answers to questions and in debates. The record, as I recall, will show that it was on the specific intervention of  Mr Nixon  that any work was done or is currently being done on the Stuart Highway. If I can obtain any further information for the honourable senator I will do so. 
The answer to that question is yes. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to  Mr McLeay  for reply. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Transport for reply. 
I will refer that question to  Mr Staley  for a reply. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer as provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 1335 at page 1608 of Hansard for 2 May 1979. 
Defence Department Personnel in United States  (Question No. 1392) 
With respect to the amendment before the Senate, all that I wish to say is that the statement made by  Senator Guilfoyle  was somewhat changed in the version which was put before the Senate by  Senator McLaren.  That has since been corrected by  Senator Cavanagh,  who correctly stated what had been said by  Senator Guilfoyle,  which was that the Government proposed to proceed, on the carriage of this motion, with the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill ( No 2 ), and the Income Tax (Mining Withholding Tax) Bill which were before the Senate before the suspension of the sitting' II" those Bills were disposed of the Government would be prepared to come back to the debate on the statement 

 Senator Bishop That is not the motion. That has nothing to do with the argument. 
-1 am just explaining what was put before the Senate at an earlier time. If we complete those Bills before 10 30, debate on those statements can be resumed I now move: 
That Hie  question  bc now  put 

 Senator Keeffe I think it is quite unfair for the Minister then to get up and move a gag. Democracy has just Mown out the window if the Minister got the call in order  10  move a gag. 
It will be a great disappointment to  Senator Davidson  to know that whilst the meeting of Cape Homers may have focused attention generally on this issue, it has not focused my attention on it. I can say only that with the price of fuel rising as it is, I have little doubt that many ingenious minds will be turning back to sail. I will ask  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport, to investigate whether any research is being done on this in Australia at the moment and to see whether I can get a more useful response for  Senator Davidson. 
I did notice the report on the call by the Opposition transport spokesman for the Government to give notice of intention to terminate the two-airline agreement. It came to my attention earlier because it was a call I had not really expected from the Opposition. Because of that I made some inquiries. The Minister for Transport advised me that he is also aware of the reported call by the Opposition. Indeed, he told me that recognition of the option that the two airline agreement could be terminated and the fact that the option was available after 31 December 1977 was one factor that led to him initiating the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review. The report of that Review was released last year. The general thrust of its recommendations was the retention of the principle of having two major airlines operating over the trunk route network and a number of changes to the present agreements between the Government and the airlines with the object of fostering increased competition. 
The point that the Minister for Transport has made to me is that if the course advocated by the Opposition spokesman were followed the present agreements would continue for a further five years. So, one would be left with those agreements intact for that period. At the same time there would be uncertainty as to what would follow. Bearing that in mind, the Government has entered into negotiations with the two major domestic airlines regarding the recommendations of the report. The report is a quite complex document. The discussions are also quite complex and will take some time to finalise. The Minister for Transport hopes to be in a position to make an announcement in the Budget session. I point out to the Senate and to the honourable senator who asked the question that a new airlines agreement would allow changes to be made to the existing two-airline system more quickly than if a notice of termination were given by the Minister. 
The new air fare schedules which have been announced over the last few months in no way relate to the question of regulation or non-regulation. Internal air fares in Australia require the approval of the Minister for Transport under the Air Navigation Regulations and international air fares require the approval of the Secretary to the Department of Transport. In each case the fares are subject to regulation. The recent announcement of lower fares relates to fares which were negotiated in accordance with the public statements of  Mr Nixon. 
I am aware, in slightly more general terms than those advanced by the honourable senator, of the claims of the Aboriginals with respect to Wreck Bay. As she would know, I attended one meeting, which I think she attended also, in company with  Mr Ellicott  who is the responsible Minister in the sense that he is responsible for the Australian Capital Territory and who to this time has been dealing with the requests of the Wreck Bay people. My Department has been monitoring the situation, but as far as I know has not played an active part in dealing with the people concerned. The honourable senator asks whether the Government will consider extending the land rights legislation to the Australian Capital Territory. I have no information which would lead me to suggest that if the Act were extended to the Australian Capital Territory claims of the sort which are recognised by the Act would in fact be open to people. It seems to me that the sorts of claims which are being made relate more to posttraditionalsociety and needs claims of the sort which have been dealt with in the Northern Territory under the general law and which are satisfied by the grant of special leases such as those which are being issued in Darwin and Alice Springs. 1 will certainly put the matter which has been raised by the honourable senator under examination and give her a more considered response. 
-On 2 May,  Senator Davidson  asked me about a report which had appeared in the Adelaide newspapers about the widow of the anthropologist, Professor Strehlow. The honourable senator asked me whether any application had been made for Federal funds to preserve the records of the late Professor Strehlow. I have made some inquiries and I have ascertained that  Mrs Strehlow,  the widow of the late Professor Strehlow, has corresponded with both  Mr Viner  and the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  about this matter. The Institute of Aboriginal Studies has attempted, without success, to negotiate arrangements to preserve the film and anthropological material in the collection. It has not been possible to negotiate any mutually satisfactory arrangement which would allow the material to be preserved and be accessible to other scholars. There has been considerable concern that it should be preserved and be available, but it has not been possible to achieve that end. It is understood that  Mrs Strehlow  is continuing private efforts to obtain financial assistance on terms which she considers appropriate. 
-On 10 May I was asked by  Senator Melzer  about the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service, and in particular whether the medical part of that service had had an increase in funding or whether the increase was concentrated in the dental section. I think that is a fair paraphrasing of the honourable senator's question. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which provides details of the funding of the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service from 1975-76 to 1978-79. The table is split between health and dental services and indicates a 20 per cent increase in funds for health services over that period and a 127.3 percent increase in funds for dental services. 
Leave granted. 

 The document reads as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197905246_35_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="081232197905246_36_1.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to clarify the intention of some sections of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. The Bill also will give effect to the Government's decision to grant financial assistance in certain cases to people who wish to be represented at future hearings before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. As 1 stated on 27 April of this year, the amendments presented in this Bill are of an administrative nature and in no way affect the general principles embodied in the principal Act. 
Honourable senators will be aware that I announced in this place on 20 March that an agreement in principle had been reached between the Government of the Northern Territory, the Federal Government and the Aboriginal land councils which would facilitate the registration of Aboriginal land titles. The agreement involved the amendment of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act in order that roads over which the public had a right of way would not need to be specifically identified in a deed of grant prior to the registration of that deed. Identification of such roads could take place subsequent to registration. It was also made clear at that time that the proposed legislative solution was subject to the consent ofthe land councils concerned. 
Advice has been received from the Northern Land  Council  that it has yet to complete consultations with the relevant communities and as a consequence is not in a position to consent to the proposed amendments to the legislation. Moreover, it is apparent that the drafting of the proposed amendments has given rise to some differences between the Northern Territory and ourselves as to the interpretation of the agreement reached in Darwin. For these reasons, I have indicated to the parties involved that I will not proceed with the amendments at this timethey are not incorporated in the Bill- but will enter into further joint discussions with a view to obtaining a consensus on the aim of the proposed legislation and agreement as to the form such legislation should take. Discussions between the Northern Territory Government, the land councils and ourselves will take place during the winter recess and I believe that draft legislation agreed to by the parties will be ready for the Budget session. 
As 1 indicated earlier, the passage of this Bill will give effect to the Government's decision announced on 13 February 1979 to grant, in certain cases, financial assistance to individuals, groups, associations or corporate bodies wishing to be represented before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner at land claim hearings. The Government's decision followed representations from some non-Aboriginal groups that through financial hardship they were unable to obtain adequate legal counsel to present their case at land claim hearings. The criteria upon which financial assistance will be provided is that the AttorneyGeneral be satisfied that in all the circumstances, including the possibility of hardship to the applicant, it is reasonable that the application be approved. The principal Act requires the Minister to make a decision with respect to any recommendation by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner concerning a land claim.  Mr Justice  Toohey, the present Commissioner, has expressed the view that the Minister has the power to accept all or part of a Land Commissioner's recommendation. However, a legal opinion obtained by the Commonwealth has cast some doubt on whether the Minister does have this power under the Act as it now stands. This Bill will make it clear that the Minister does have the power to accept all or part of a recommendation. 
Provisions are made in this Bill to allow the Minister to utilise the funds of the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account in order to meet additional administrative needs of the land councils. According to the provisions of the principal Act, administrative expenses of the land councils are to be met from 40 per cent of the royalty payments paid to the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. The royalty payments currently flowing from mining on Aboriginal land have proven to be insufficient to meet the administrative expenses of the land councils. This amending legislation gives the Minister power to use other available funds in the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account to meet additional administrative expenses until such time as adequate royalty payments begin to flow from mining operations on Aboriginal land. By an interim arrangement pending the passage of this amendment, special payments were made from Commonwealth appropriations to land councils to enable them to meet their administrative expenses. This Bill will enable the Commonwealth to recoup these payments from the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account, lt is also proposed that the provision whereby loans were made available from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund should continue to apply in respect of the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. This amendment will ensure that loans can be made available to Aboriginals living in the Northern Territory from the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account. 
Finally, two other minor amendments are provided for in this Bill. The first corrects a simple error in the calculation of the size ofthe Ranger project area subsequent to the adjustment to the southern boundary in accordance with the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry's recommendation. The area of the Ranger project area has, as a result of the Government's acceptance of that recommendation, been reduced from 83 square kilometres to 79 square kilometres. The second deletes an incorrect reference to sub-section (5a) in section 63 (6) of the principal Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
On behalf of  Senator Webster  and for the information of honourable senators, I present the resolutions of the 106th meeting of the Australian Agricultural 
Council held in Christchurch, New Zealand, January 1 979. 
I simply wish to acknowledge the support that has been given the Bills by the Australian Democrats, and to thank them for it. 
Bills agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendment or requests; report adopted. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that officers of my Department would be expected to record significant approaches regarding departmental business from any member of the public whether direct or through lobbyists. The Department has no special procedures for dealing with such approaches, nor is any special treatment accorded them. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) (2) (3) and (4) The members of my personal staff and I are in frequent contact with various representatives of business consultant firms. No separate action is taken to record these contacts, nor are there reasons why this should be done. It would be inappropriate for me to disclose details of such meetings. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists  (Question No. 1228) 
I understand  Senator Button's  concern that he should not do a Primmer' on me and accuse me of not answering something that was answered. In this case he is properly drawing my attention to something to which, as far as I know, he has not had an answer. I regret that and will seek an urgent reply for him. 
Honourable senators will be aware that this Government, I believe for the first time in the history of the Commonwealth, has undertaken a responsibility to respond to parliamentary committee reports. All honourable senators would agree that this was a very important step, particularly insofar as the Senate- with its emphasis on committee activities- is concerned. If the reaction to the report is overdue, on behalf of the Minister 1 express my regret. I will certainly ascertain from him when a response can be expected. 
I was not aware of the issue of this newsletter which has been referred to and extensively quoted from by  Senator Martin.  I would not wish what  Senator Martin  has been saying to be read by any honourable senator as being her words rather than those of the newsletter which apparently has been circulated. The newsletter does contain the allegations which have been read out by  Senator Martin.  As my attention has only just been drawn to it, I am not in a position to say that I have checked the allegations. The newsletter goes on to refer quite accurately to the policy of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Government, which is certainly not to take over Aboriginal organisations. The newsletter recites as a fact- it is factual in the sense that it reflects actual policy- that: 'We have been assured by the Queensland Regional Director,  Mr Don  O 'Rourke, that it is not their Department's policy to take over Aboriginal-run organisations'. I am more than pleased to put on record that that is the case. In regard to the allegation that specific organisations have been taken over by the Department, I state that I am sure that would not be true but obviously I will have to go back and check the particular situation. The newsletter also indicates that the people who should be running this organisation are those who are established, by the memorandum and articles of association, as being those who should run it, namely, those on the board of directors. That would certainly be my view and the view of my Department. 
I regret that I am not able to advise the honourable senator about the passenger rates that apply on specific routes around Australia. The questions that he asks are most pertinent, and I look forward to obtaining a response from the Minister for him. 
May I say that I have shared some of the difficulties which  Senator Cavanagh  has expressed with respect to the drafting of this Bill. I say that without disrespect to the draftsman and without suggesting that this makes this particular Bill in any sense peculiar. I think members of the Committee will agree that working out precisely what income tax legislation means is not one of the easier tasks assigned to us, and it is often difficult to fit the description of the second reading speech to the particulars which are contained in the legislation. I am grateful that I did have time in which to give some consideration to the matters raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  I will endeavour, to the best of my understanding, to explain that the Bill does do what the Government indicated it would do, and that the difficulties which  Senator Cavanagh  sees in it are difficulties which in fact do not exist. 
I think I can best explain the matter by saying firstly that the payments which are to be extracted under this Bill are payments which fall under proposed Division 1 1C, to which the honourable senator made some reference before the adjournment. The sections in that Divisionproposed section 128U and following sectionsindicate the nature of the income which is to be taxed and how that tax is to be collected. If the Committee examines proposed section 128U it will find that there is a definition of 'distributing body', as referred to by the honourable senator, and mining payments, which are described as being certain payments made pursuant to various Acts. They are generally described as being payments made after the particular date under the provisions of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory that relate to Aboriginals, or under an agreement made in accordance with such provisions, being a payment made: 
in consider;! tion of the issuing, grunting or renewal of a miner's right or mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land; 
in consideration of the granting of permission 
So we have these forms of payment defined, and we then find in proposed section 128V: 
I ) Where a mining payment - 
I interpolate, that is a payment of the type which is described in the previous section-  is made to, or applied for the benefit of, a person, that person is liable to pay income tax on the amount of the mining payment at the rate declared by the Parliament for the purposes of this section. 
But it is in the other Bill which we have before us where the rate is declared to be 6.4 per cent, although there is reference to that percentage in the withholding provisions which appear subsequently, in particular in proposed section 1 27ZB. So this new tax with which we are dealing is a tax which is dealt with under this Division and those sections indicate to what money that tax is applied. It is the whole of the moneys which are described as a mining payment. Those sections stand together as sections which define the taxable income and the way in which the tax is to be collected. 
Many of the remarks by  Senator Cavanagh  related to clause 4 in the Bill, which proposes to insert section  23AE  in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act. I think the simplest way that I can explain that is to say that proposed section  23AE  proceeds to ensure that payments which are caught under Division 1  lc  do not also attract normal income tax. 
It is a new division which is inserted by this Bill. A new Division 1 1C is inserted in Part III of the Income Tax Amendment Act. The sections which follow are included in that new Division. As I said before, they define the types of payments which are made subject to this particular tax of 6.4 per cent. That tax is different from income tax in that it is not tax which is imposed on an assessment of assessable income. It is a withholding tax which is imposed on those payments in gross. Honourable senators will find that those sections, when read together, provide for a deduction of 6.4 per cent of the totality of those payments by the person making those payments either to individual Aboriginals or to a distributing body. 
If the Act provided no more than that, the danger would be that certain of those payments would also become part of the assessable income, either of bodies or of individuals, and would thereby become subject to normal income tax. So clause 4, which proposes to insert a new section  23AE  in the Income Tax Assessment Act, proceeds to provide that certain moneys are not included in the assessable income either of organisations or individuals who receive them. So that section is to be read as ensuring that double taxation is not imposed, that the Commissioner cannot argue that, even though this new withholding tax has been imposed, it is subject also to normal income tax. 
If the Committee looks at proposed section  23AE  it will find that the first sub-section simply says that certain words have the same meaning as in proposed new section 128U. Then subsection (2), and I think this is a fairly clear subsection, reads: 
Where a mining payment is made to a distributing body, no part of the amount of the payment shall be included in the assessable income of that distributing body. 
That means that if, for example, a Land Council receives income in the form of one of these defined mining payments, that income is not added to other income which it may receive and which may be assessable under the Income Tax Assessment Act. It simply operates as a means of ensuring that these mining payments are not subjected to income tax under the normal income tax provisions. They are not included in the assessable income of the distributing body. The first sub-section deals with payments to a distributing body by, say, a mining company, and the effect of that on its assessable income, which is nil. Proposed sub-section (3) deals with payments which might be made direct either to an Aboriginal or to Aboriginals. Similarly, it provides that a mining payment as defined made to or applied for the benefit of an Aboriginal or Aboriginals is not part of the assessable income of that Aboriginal or those Aboriginals. So it will have been subjected to the withholding tax under the subsequent proposed sections in the new Division 1 1C, but it will not be part of the assessable income of the individuals concerned and thereby subject to normal income tax. 
Proposed new sub-section (4) deals with distribution by a distributing body to Aboriginals and provides that if a distributing body has received one of the defined mining payments subject to withholding tax from a mining company and it then proceeds to expend the whole or part of that money in making payments to or for the benefit of an Aboriginal or Aboriginals or in making payment to another distributing body- another Aboriginal organisation- the amounts of money so distributed are not included in the assessable income of the recipient. So again it is an exemption from what might otherwise be an obligation to pay income tax. Proposed new sub-section (5) deals with a payment by a distributing body to a different distributing body. Proposed new sub-section (6) then covers the situation that we do not wish to exempt from tax payments which are made to third parties as part of the administration of the distributing bodies. 
No, there is no deduction. What it means is that if a body, such as a land council or some other distributing body, uses part of those moneys to employ people on a salary, the salary received by those people will not be exempt from normal income tax. We are simply providing that a third party who is not receiving money by way of grant but is receiving payment as part of the administration of the distributing body should pay income tax on his salary in the same way as any other person. 
The last proposed sub-section covers the fact that it might be that some of that money will be used to buy goods or services. Let me take an example which is common in that situation. There might well be a considerable demand for some of the money to be spent on the purchase of Toyota vehicles. We do not want a situation in which money flowing to a Toyota dealer is exempt from the normal provisions of income tax law. What that proposed sub-section covers is the fact that money, although it might have come through a mining payment, if paid to a supplier of goods and services, is to be treated in the hands of the provider of goods and services as being a normal sort of income and therefore subject to normal income tax law. I think that that covers the major point which  Senator Cavanagh  made before dinner. I must say, as I opened my remarks by saying, that I had the same difficulty as the honourable senator expressed before dinner in following the construction of these proposed new sub-sections. But I think that if we look at them in terms of being the imposition of a different form of tax, namely, a withholding tax at a special rate of 6.4 per cent - 
I do not believe that it is brutal in any sense because it means that all payments, other than payments in the form of salary or in meeting administrative costs, are considered not to be assessable income. It ensures that, say, a supplier of paper does not get a peculiar form of income- the amount paid for the paper forms part of the general income of his business. People who supply goods and services are treated under the income tax law in exactly the same way as they otherwise would be treated. Aboriginal beneficiaries of grants and things which are made using that money receive money which is exempt from the normal income tax law and the money is not taxable in their hands under the Income Tax Assessment Act. I think that the proposed new sub-sections in fact clearly lay down the pattern which is mentioned in the second reading speech, which is simply to provide that a special rate of tax should be withheld from this special type of payment and that the money should not thereafter be subject to income tax in the hands of the beneficiaries whom the payments are meant to benefit. 
That is a very easy matter to which I can respond. On 20 July 1978 a statement was made by the Treasurer.  Mr Howard,  and the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  which announced the decision by the Government to clarify the taxation position of revenues received by Aboriginal groups from mining on Aboriginal land. I am quite happy to have that statement, which is not a long statement, incorporated in  Hansard.  The statement makes it quite clear that the Government decided that from I July 1979 revenues received by Aboriginal groups from mining operations anywhere in Australia would be taxed on the basis of the standard rate of personal income tax- namely, 32 per cent- applied to 20 per cent of gross revenues. In other words, on 20 July 1 978 the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) were publicly announced as being applicable from 1 July 1979. The first of the agreements referred to in the debate, which I think was the Ranger agreement, was entered into in November 1978 which, of course, was subsequent to the date of the announcement to which I referred.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to incorporate the statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TAXATION OF ABORIGINAL MINING REVENUES 
20 July 1978- The Treasurer, the  Hon.  John Howard, and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the  Hon.  Ian Viner, today announced a decision by the Government to clarify the taxation position of revenues received by Aboriginal groups from mining on Aboriginal land. The Ministers commented that, because of the unusual nature of the Aboriginal bodies to which revenues from mining would flow, if the present income tax law were allowed to apply there could be some inappropriate and unintended effects. The Government considered that it was desirable to make clear in the law the way in which income tax would fall on these moneys. 
The Government has decided that, from I July 1979, revenues received by Aboriginal groups from mining operations anywhere in Australia will be taxed on the basis of the standard rate of personal income tax (32 per cent) applied to 20 per cent of gross revenues. The Government will introduce an amendment to the income tax law to give effect to this decision. The tax will be collected by the withholding system, that is, it will be deducted before payments are made. The withholding will be made at the first payment point. The tax deducted will be the final tax, i.e. there will be no subsequent tax assessment process. This means that Aboriginal groups will not have to bring the amounts they receive to account for income tax purposes. Distribution by the groups will also be free of any further income tax in the hands of the recipients. 

 - Mr Chairman, I am sorry. I was a little disorderly in making my response. I was trying to be helpful. I meant no disrespect to the Senate or to  Senator Cavanagh.  The position is covered by either subsection (3) or sub-section (4) of proposed section 23AE, which I think makes it quite clear that if a payment of the sort with which we are dealing here- one of these mining payments- is applied for the benefit of an Aboriginal or Aboriginals, no part of the amount shall be included in the assessable income of that Aboriginal or those Aboriginals. Sub-section (4) covers the situation where the distributing body has the money and then passes it on for the benefit of an Aboriginal or Aboriginals. The relevant amount again is not included in the assessable income. 
So, this part of the legislation is concerned only with people who are dealing in a commercial sense with a council or a distributing body. We are simply trying to ensure that their commercial income from this source is dealt with in exactly the same way as their commercial income from other sources. Where the money is distributed to an Aboriginal community or an Aboriginal person for purposes related to the advancement and welfare of that group- indeed, for any pupose which is not related to the direct administration of the payment of the salary of that person- it is not assessable. So, there is no double taxation for Aboriginal people in the circumstances to which  Senator Cavanagh  has been addressing himself. 
It would be taxable only in the hands of the Toyota dealer; not in the hands of the man for whom the Toyota was being purchased. The Toyota dealer, which might be Jim Cavanagh Pty Ltd of Darwin, is in the business of selling Toyotas. The distributing body says: 'We think it is important that such and such an Aboriginal should be able to have a Toyota so that he can go out to his outstation'. He gets the money. That money is not assessable. We are just trying to ensure that the Commissioner of Taxation does not find that because the money has come from those funds the commercial organisation with which one is dealing then says: 'This money is a mining payment and therefore we should not make it part of our assessable income'. Sub-section (4) says that, where a distributing body- that is a council, an association or something- has received some money from a mining payment, which is defined later on, and expends part of the amount of that payment- we will call it 'part'- in making a payment to or for the benefit of an Aboriginal, the relevant amount shall not be included in the assessable income of that Aboriginal. He is quite clear. The Commissioner of Taxation is not going to say to the person concerned: 'You got $ 10,000 to buy a Toyota', or 'That amount of money was paid on your behalf; so you are going to be taxed on $10,000'. 
On the other hand, sub-section (7) does not operate to exclude from the assessable income of a person an amount that is paid to him as consideration for goods or services provided by the person. The goods or services are provided in that case by the agent. I know that I am giving a lot of advertisement to a certain make of motor vehicle, and I apologise for that. The provider of the motor vehicle in the commercial sense does not have any protection from including that amount of money in his assessable income. If the provision were as  Senator Cavanagh  suggests, I can assure him that we would withdraw it for reconsideration; but, quite clearly, when he looks at this part of the legislation I think he will see that it protects the Aboriginal person in that context from having any addition to his assessable income, whereas it catches the people who are simply, in the normal course of business, dealing on a commercial basis with the distributing body or with the individual Aboriginal. 
I wanted to get the call immediately after  Senator Keeffe  resumed his seat because he has made a couple of statements which in my view are quite despicable. For a start, he misquoted me, about which I complained to him previously. Quite simply, he misquoted me again when he said that a little earlier today I said that things are good about infant mortality. That is not what I said. I said that I had received some figures from the Northern Territory which showed improvement. To put those words into my mouth is quite wrong. I wanted immediately to correct what  Senator Keeffe  had said. I must say also that for  Senator Keeffe  to say that it is good for the Government to have increased infant mortality is a disgraceful allegation and one which, of course, I utterly reject.  Senator Keeffe  has repeated the sort of comment which earlier today I complained that he made in his speech at the second reading stage. That sort of statement is inflammatory. It does not help the situation. It is not in accord with the facts. In my view it is quite clearly a disgraceful allegation of which he ought to be ashamed. 
I come to the few brief comments he made which are relevant to this Bill. He conceded that the Pitjantjatjara people and the Walpiri people are not engaged currently and were not engaged at the time in negotiations relating to minerals. The statement which I have had incorporated in  Hansard  is a public statement which was released in July by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, ft relates to the imposition of tax on royalties. I am advised by my adviser here that, in addition, a letter was sent from the Government to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council drawing his attention specifically to the Press release. That matter is not within my personal knowledge, but my adviser tells me that that was done. There is simply no basis to suggest that in some way we have snuck up on the Aboriginal people and tried to take them by surprise. The fact is that I receive a great volume of correspondence from Aboriginal organisations and individuals. I must say that I have received none with respect to this matter. I did see a newspaper report which suggested that one of the councils was saying that it wished the legislation could be proceeded with and disposed of so that it could get on with its business, but I have received no protest at all from Aboriginal people. 
I sincerely ask  Senator Keeffe  to give serious thought to the wisdom of making the sorts of statements that he has just made. Do they really serve any good purpose insofar as the Aboriginal people are concered? I ask him please to give some thought to the possibility that such observations are utterly destructive of what both he and this Government wish to achieve for the Aboriginal people, a substantially better way of life than they enjoy generally in Australia at the moment. 
When the Senate adjourned debate on these Bills last week a number of honourable senators had spoken on behalf of the Government and the Opposition. I thank Government senators for their support of the Bills. I will make rather more mixed remarks about the contributions of Opposition senators. 
-The Government opposes the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Opposition. I am sorry that honourable senators opposite did not hear me thank Government senators for their support of the Bills, and say that I would be rather more mixed in my comments about the contributions of honourable senators opposite.  (Quorum formed).  Before the quorum was called I was proceeding to mention some of the points which have been made by Opposition senators in respect of the legislation which is before the Senate.  Senator Gietzelt,  who led for the Opposition and who moved the amendment, described the legislation as being a number of things. In no respect do I think that he was accurate in the way he categorised the legislation. He began by saying that this was a discriminatory tax. Of course, he was making that allegation in the sense that in some peculiar way this tax discriminated against Aboriginals. I suppose it could be said that there is an element of discrimination in this law and in the tax which is imposed. As other Government senators did, I refer  Senator Gietzelt  and the Opposition to section 26 (f) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It states: 
The assessable income of a taxpayer shall include- 
f ) any amount received as or by way of royalty - 
There is then an exception which does not apply but the sub-section (f) continues to an amount other than an amount that is not income within the ordinary meaning of that expression. The fact of the matter is that there may be some room for doubt as to the precise nature of the royalty payments which are being received by Aboriginals under the various arrangements which apply but this system of taxation will impose a very low percentage rate of taxation. It is the standard rate but it is imposed on only 20 per cent of the amounts received. I do not believe that it is fair to categorise this legislation as being discriminatory in the negative sense that was put by  Senator Gietzelt.  He also described the legislation as racist. I believe, once again, that that is an unhelpful remark which cannot be applied to this legislation in any accurate way. 
The comments of  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Keeffe  suggested to me that they were fighting different battles.  Senator Gietzelt  was making it quite clear in his remarks that he has very deep concern about the whole concept of capitalism- about international capitalism in particular but about national capitalism as welland he is concerned about the whole mining scene. I suggest that very little of what he had to say in that area had anything to do with this legislation. He also categorised the legislation as being retrospective. It is hard to see on what definition of the word 'retrospective' that that could be said of this legislation. It does not apply until the next financial year. It applies to income received subsequent to the introduction of this legislation. I do not believe that it is in any sense retrospective. 
I also challenge the assertion, which was made in  Senator Gietzelt  's speech, that Aboriginal funds which are taxed under this legislation are being taxed more severely than the funds of mining companies. He based those remarks on analyses which, I think, were in the Fitzgerald report and which related to the ability of mining companies to invest their funds in ways which enable them to make deductions against income. That is a most unfortunate remark because some Aboriginal people might read those speeches and believe that they are factual, and not understand that companies are taxed at a rate in excess of 45 per cent in the dollar as against the 6 to 7 per cent which is imposed by this legislation. 

 Senator Gietzelt also said that the Government has stated that there are minerals on the Aboriginals' land and that those minerals must be mined. That is the sort of broad statement that is being made about the Aboriginal land rights legislation in the Northern Territory which is quite misleading. There are specific mineral projects and in particular projects where rights have accrued prior to the passage of this legislation in respect of which it is quite true to say that the Aboriginal land owners are not given the right to veto mining; the only thing they are given is a right to extract an agreement and in the default of an agreement, to go to arbitration. But in the generality of cases- in the cases where mining is to occur in the future and there are no vested rights- the legislation in the Northern Territory gives the Aboriginal owners the right to veto mining development. I suppose the simplest proof of that fact is the way the mining industry is continually making representations about and objecting to the fact that the legislation does so provide. I regret that, in the attack on this legislation, the debate was broadened to cover aspects of Aboriginal affairs which are not really raised by the legislation. That set the hares running in a way which I think is unproductive and unhelpful to the Aboriginal people. 

 Senator Keeffe went on to say that this legislation was a continuation of attempts to keep Aboriginals as third class citizens. The Government emphatically rejects that sort of allegation. Subsequent to the arrangements with the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited over Groote Eylandt- arrangements which were made not by government but by missions associated with the Aboriginal community and which arose out of straight commercial negotiations- the Government has intervened to ensure that certain royalties will flow to Aboriginal communities. The diversion of income to Aboriginals in that way is a substantial attempt to ensure that they are not third class citizens but are put in a position of economic independence and, indeed, a position of some economic power. The fact that the Government, in looking at this pattern, says that it is appropriate that some taxation should be imposed on the income which will flow to Aboriginals through these arrangements is in no sense a repudiation of commitments which are aimed at improving the lot of Aboriginal people. 
I think it would be quite extraordinary if, as part of our general desire in this Parliament to see the position of Aboriginals improved, we were putting forward the argument that in some way it was necessary to exempt Aboriginal income from taxation. I think that was an extraordinary proposition and not one which the Opposition would advance if it were considering this matter in full Caucus and deciding on views it wished to put into operation when it was in government. It is a matter of great interest that there is potential for very substantial income to flow to Aboriginals under the arrangements which presently apply in the Northern Territory. During the debate  Senator Gietzelt  or  Senator Keeffe  referred to  Mr Turnbull  's reports, which are public documents relating to the economic development of Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. 
I shall give some indicative figures. I do not adopt these figures, because they involve guesses as to future development in the Northern Territory. I refer the Senate to a table which appears at page 73 in  Mr Turnbull  's first report. It shows projected Aboriginal property income in the Northern Territory. The figures appear under these various headings- 'royalties from manganese', 'royalties from aluminium or alumina', rent on mining lease areas', and 'uranium royalties'. The total figure for 1977 is $2. 19m; the figure in 1 978 is $2.43m; and the figure in 1 979 is $2.60m. Because of the projected uranium mining which is to occur there is then quite a take-off.  Mr Turnbull's  estimate- and he gives the basis of that estimate in his report- is that by the year 2000 there will be an income of $5 1.36m. That is a substantial amount of money and under existing arrangements it will flow from only three minerals in the Northern Territory. There is no provision for the development of coal deposits or other projects in the Northern Territory. We are looking at a substantial income which it is hoped will flow to Aboriginal communities. Under this legislation we are arranging to provide a firm basis of taxation which will take into account that some of the income is based on compensation and should not, therefore, be subject to taxation. 
I do not think that it would be fair to say that the totality of the income received by Aboriginals is compensatory in a legal sense, because the Aboriginal Lands Rights (Northern Territory) Act specifically does not limit the agreements which Aboriginals are entitled to negotiate to obtain compensation for the loss of surface rights to land. In general State mining Acts require that compensation should relate to the loss of surface rights, loss of surface use and so on. Under that legislation one is looking at a genuine compensation position in the legal sense. Under the legislation before us now we are looking at arrangements negotiated between parties without that limitation. It is very difficult to say the extent to which one is looking at what in the legal sense is compensation and what is an income-producing asset. The Government has tried to isolate 20 per cent- one-fifth- of the payments and it has said that those payments should be subject to the standard rate. 
I am critical of the contributions of Senators Keeffe and Gietzelt. In this difficult area of improving the lot of the Aboriginal people they do little good in making the sorts of speeches that they made, which are devisive and accusatory and which in my view are not in line with the facts of the case. The later contributions by Opposition senators- and I refer particularly to those made by Senators Robertson and Cavanagh- were of a different key and of a different character. They raised matters to which I wish to respond briefly. 

 Senator Robertson made a speech which was very much directed to his concern for the position of Aboriginal people. I do not believe that he was trying to fight other battles which had nothing to do with the legislation before us or the Aboriginal people. He made a number of statements about the fact that tax is not paid on compensation. I have already addressed some comments to the Senate and I will not repeat them. Although some honourable senators opposite were concerned at some of the technical points put forward by Government senators, it is important to see that the principle that a compensation payment should not be taxed needs to be examined in the light of the nature of the payments which were actually received. As Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I would be most unhappy to see written into the land rights legislation the provision which has been sought by the mining companies- which in fact was not accepted by the Government- that in some way Aboriginals should be limited to that compensation element to which  Senator Robertson  referred. I have already referred to the provision which makes it clear that royalties are to be taxed generally as income. 
I query one point in  Senator Robertson's  speech. He referred to the involuntary nature of the Gemco agreement on Groote Eylandt. As I have already indicated my understanding of the matter is that those arrangements pre-dated the legislative arrangements that we now have, and that that community, represented by the missions that were involved with it, negotiated arrangements with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd having obtained the mineral rights to Groote Eylandt by taking out leases or exploration rights under the Northern Territory mining ordinances. The agreement relating to Groote Eylandt provides us with a valuable precedent. If one examines  Mr Turnbull's  report and the effect which the flow of royalties has had on the community of Groote Eylandt, one gets a great sense of optimism and a feeling that here is a way in which the lot of the Aboriginal can be improved.  Mr Turnbull,  in his report, documents the way the Aboriginal community of Groote Eylandt has used its traditional structures to organise itself and to use those funds in a positive way. For example, in only one year has the community spent more than it has received. After considerable debate on Groote Eylandt over the last few years  Mr Turnbull  reports that the Aboriginals there are determined not to spend their current income at all. The Aboriginal people on Groote Eylandt are determined that they will invest all current income and spend only the proceeds of their investment. I think that that shows a very positive intention on the part of the people to use those royalties for the permanent and long term betterment of their community. I for one take that as a sign that the sorts of arrangements that we now encourage through legislation are arrangements which will enable the Aboriginal people to establish a form of financial independence which they have not had since white settlement in Australia. 
It was suggested by  Senator Robertson  that the attitude of the Government is that Aboriginals cannot handle their own affairs. I can only point to the legislation which has ensured that Aboriginal communities will be gaining access to funds which will be totally within their control, through the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, and through arrangements which exist under that Act, to give the lie to  Senator Robertson's  suggestions. It is the fundamental attitude of this Government that not only can Aboriginals manage their own affairs but also it is essential for their own betterment that they do manage their own affairs. The Government stands strongly behind that principle. 
Any remarks which I wanted to make about  Senator Cavanagh  's speech are taken up in the remarks which I made on other Opposition speakers. The Government believes that this Bill is a fair provision, and that it has been properly put forward to clarify the law and applies to the very considerable funds which will flow through the Aboriginal communities in the future. It is a Bill which warrants the support of the Senate. 
There was one other matter which I wanted to mention and that was the serious allegation by SenatorKeeffe that in some ways an attempt was being made to cook the books about infant mortality in the Northern Territory. I can only say, that earlier this month the Department of Health in the Northern Territory sent me a document dated April this year, which reports on the latest infant mortality figures. I have not yet referred the comments made by  Senator Keeffe  to the Northern Territory Administration for a response. I am pleased to say that the information sent to me by the Northern Territory Department of Health shows a resumption of the downward trend in infant mortality in the Northern Territory. There is an analysis which has been made by the Northern Territory Government of the overall position relating to infant mortality in the Territory. I am sorry that the  Senator saw  fit to make the remarks that he did in an area which quite properly causes people very great concern. I commend the legislation to the Senate. As I previously indicated, the Government does not support the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Gietzelt's amendment)  be left out. 
I have always regarded  Senator Colston,  who spoke earlier on the adjournment, as having a distinctive style of his own, but he appears to be plagiarising very badly this evening. What he said was almost word for word from several speeches that I have heard from  Sir Charles  Court on the antics of the Labor Party in Western Australia, which erected a new building on the site of the old Trades Hall and let it to government departments, thereby financing the building.  Sir Charles  Court has made several powerful speeches which have indicated his complete contempt for that method of financing one's party at the taxpayers' expense. I make no comment on the Western Australian situation. I simply find it extraordinary that there is a similarity between the speeches of  Sir Charles  Court and the speech of  Senator Colston  here tonight. 
With respect to the matters which have been raised by  Senator Colston,  I think that I am precluded from offering opinions of a legal nature and therefore withstand the temptation to do so. I offer no comment on the propriety of what has been done, except to say that it appears that  Sir Robert  Sparkes has made quite public the technique which has been followed in Queensland in the furtherance of the fund which was mentioned by  Senator Colston.  No doubt the views of  Sir Robert  Sparkes have been noted by the income tax authorities and they will have their own view of the matters which have been brought before the Senate tonight. I think there is a substantial body of opinion in Australia which believes that political parties should be funded completely at the expense of those private individuals who support those political parties. Other people suggest that political parties should be almost totally funded by the public. On that debate I make no comment except to say that on some other occasion we might discuss the whole matter in more detail than tonight's adjournment debate gives us scope for. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Compensation was paid to shopkeepers and persons for losses of profits and earnings as a result  or  the closure of business premises on security grounds for the duration of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. Compensation was also paid to the owners of a taxi and two private cars for uninsured damages and losses caused by the explosion. No compensation has been paid by the Commonwealth for injury to any of the victims of the explosion because they come within the compensation arrangements in the provisions of State legislation. The Commonwealth did, however, establish a Trust Fund for the education and general benefit of the children of the Council workers killed in the explosion. 
I am informed that although police officers are not covered by the New South Wales Workers' Compensation Act, their conditions of employment provide for benefits to compensate them for injuries sustained in the course of duty. lt would be inappropriate for the Commonwealth to intrude into the field of compensation for State employees. 
I will seek from the Minister for Transport a response to those questions. 
I do not have those figures with me. I suggest that if  Senator Keeffe  wants detailed figures he place a question on notice making quite clear the periods in which he is interested and precisely what information he requires. I will certainly do my best to get him the information as urgently as possible because I understand his interest in this matter. 
The question asked by  Senator Collard  is probably of interest to all honourable senators who spend a fair amount of time on the sort of aircraft that was involved in this incident. I have to say to him that, although some information has been received in Australia, that information is of necessity not complete. As yet there is no indication of the cause of the incident because the investigation in the United States in to the actual incident has not been completed. On the information which is available at this stage there is no basis for suggesting that any changes in operational or maintenance procedures are necessary. No doubt the Department will be following the investigation carefully to ensure that when the results are known anything that flows from them can be used in Australia. 
I had prepared a perfect answer for those questions but I have lost my train of thought due to the irreverent interjection of the Leader of the Opposition. I was also preoccupied by thinking that if there is an independent inquiry into the orchestral resources of the ABC, the subsidy which the taxpayers are paying for my orchestral tickets, and no doubt those of the Leader of the Opposition, might lead to a severe reduction of services rather than an increase in the area of orchestras. To direct my attention back to the questions asked by  Senator Davidson,  I think the answers are no, no, no, and I do not know. But I will refer the question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who may be able to give an answer which is more helpful to  Senator Davidson. 
This matter comes within my area of responsibility as I represent the Minister for Administrative Services. I have some information on the matters raised by  Senator Rocher.  With respect to the first part of his question, voltage fluctuations in electrical supplies may cause difficulties in the functioning of computer equipment. As to whether there have been any reports of permanent loss of memory bank data or other computer malfunctions, I am advised there have been no known reports to date of irretrievable loss of data from computer memory. However, there have been some cases of computer malfunction due to inconsistent power supplies. 
As to the adequacy of the protection which is given, I suppose that the previous part of my answer indicates that there is a reasonable level of protection available since there has been no irretrievable loss of data. I am advised that it is technically possible to protect computer installations against inconsistent power supplies. That can be provided at various levels according to the importance of the functioning of the computer and the sensitivity of the data contained on it. The responsibility for determining the appropriate level of protection is left to the individual departments operating the computers. I do not have detailed information as to what level of protection is provided in any particular case. 
-Some of the detail which was given in the question asked by  Senator Lewis  certainly was not known to me, although the recent crash is, I think, in the minds of us all. 
-I did not listen to  AM  this morning; I apologise for that oversight, lt would be known to honourable senators that none of these aircraft are operated by Australian airlines. It is a fact, as  Senator Lewis  said, that a number of airlines do operate the DC 10 aircraft into Australia. I think nine airlines are licensed to use these aircraft in and out of Australia, although only eight airlines regularly use them at the moment. I am advised that currently there are no DC 10 aircraft in Australia. Given the fact that the American Federal Aviation Administration has now issued a directive relating to what is thought to have caused the recent accident, there is no doubt that countries operating these aircraft to Australia will ensure that the necessary inspection is carried out forthwith. 
Because Australian airlines do not operate these aircraft the Department of Transport does not necessarily receive detailed information on directives or recommended inspections of that type. But, as I have indicated already, the Department is aware of the current directive and the world-wide airworthiness system responds to airworthiness directives and recommendations issued by civil aviation authorities or aircraft manufacturers. That is an ongoing process. I think honourable senators would be aware of the very close interest which has been paid to aircraft safety in Australia by successive governments and, indeed, of the very good record that we have had in that regard. I certainly will draw the attention of the Minister for Transport to the question in the form in which it has been asked by  Senator Lewis  and I will ensure that nothing that should be done by us is left undone. 
I was not aware that there was any disparity in the services provided as between Canberra-Melbourne and Melbourne-Launceston. I can only assume that Professor Baume 's crusade against an intoxicated society has managed to succeed at least among non-first class passengers travelling to Canberra. I am not surprised that alcohol is served to those flying to Tasmania. Normally it is not, as alleged, a stimulant, but rather a depressant. It is probably used to dampen down the natural effervescence of people travelling to Tasmania who are overjoyed at the prospect of arriving in such a beautiful part of Australia. However, I will ascertain why the distinction has been drawn by the airlines. If the reason is not one of those that I have advanced I will let the honourable senator know. 
-On 3 May  Senator Button  asked me a question about some copies of a report on the television viewing habits of Australian children. He asked whether certain copies had been destroyed. He renewed that question yesterday in the Senate. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided me with the following reply: 
The research which resulted in this report was undertaken by Tribunal staff in 1977. The report was approved by the Tribunal in draft form on 4 August 1978. 
The Tribunal did however have reservations about some of the conclusions drawn from the results and asked that the report be revised. 
This was done but further consideration of the report by the Tribunal was deferred until after the completion of the Sydney commercial television licence renewal hearings. 
It was at that stage that about 200 copies of the revised report were pulped but the bulk of the supplies remained intact in the Melbourne office. 
The honourable senator will be aware that the report and research findings have now been released by the Tribunal and the report has received extensive publicity. 
I do not recall seeing any such report, which the honourable senator suggests was prepared by the Department of Health. I will check with my own Department and the Department of Health, and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The extent of land which will be required depends on the final location of the western boundary of the floodway associated with the proposed airport development. 
The design of the floodway is still under consideration between Commonwealth, State and local authorities concerned and a decision will be taken as soon as practicable. 
I am not able to advise the honourable senator on either of the points that he has raised. He would be aware, however, that in the United States of America, as in this country, there are stringent standards of airline inspection and control. I have little doubt that if the bolts to which he has referred were the same as the bolts which caused trouble in the DC 10 aircraft, that matter would have been drawn to our attention. I will obtain a specific answer for him and let him know as soon as possible. 
I do not usually see the Adelaide  Advertiser  and today is no exception so I am not aware of the leading article to which the honourable senator refers. I am not surprised that the Adelaide newspaper should say that it wants more help from Canberra. That is the sort of statement which appears in newspaper articles all around Australia. I would not go white with amazement if a copy of the newspaper were actually produced by  Senator Bishop. 

 Senator Bishop would know that the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  has continued to show a very active interest in this road. No doubt  Senator Bishop  has seen a Press release issued either late last week or early this week which indicated that  Mr Nixon  had recently inspected the area in company with  Senator Jessop  who also has shown a considerable interest in the Stuart Highway. I think there was an indication in that Press release that next year, pursuant to  Mr Nixon's  urging, the South Australian Government will put a substantially increased amount into the improvement of the Stuart Highway. I have no knowledge of  Mr Nixon's  obligation to meet certain people; I will have to seek information from him about that. 
Yes,  Mr President. 
I think it is a pity that Opposition senators should be caterwauling about that question, which relates to the proper use of publicly paid for stationery and postage. I think that it is a proper question to ask. I suppose that there is a self-evident answer to it; that is, that employees should not use those resources to push a private political view. I think that the answer to the question is self-evident and I am at a loss to understand the quite odd reaction from the Opposition benches. It seems to me that very little can be done to control the use of every envelope which is issued on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
But since the honourable senator asked me whether the matter to which he referred was a misuse of public money, I say that clearly it appears that it was. 

 - Senator Jessop 's question neatly dovetails with a question asked a little earlier by  Senator Bishop  and it seeks an explanation of some of the facts which were queried in  Senator Bishop's  question. I must say that it is consistent with  Mr  Nixon's well-known devotion to duty and application to the transport affairs of Australia that only the closure of an airport would force him to postpone an engagement in Coober Pedy. I certainly accept that it would be a fact that  Mr Nixon  would wish to go back there as soon as he can. The fact that he travelled on the worst section of the Stuart Highway is again consistent with  Mr Nixon's  attitude to his job, which is to get right on with it. 
I was very pleased that in the third part of the question  Senator Jessop  underlined the point which I was able to make in response to  Senator Bishop's  question. The Federal Minister,  Mr Nixon,  certainly has restated his interest in increased allocations for the Stuart Highway. I am pleased to see that after many years of trying he seems to have awakened the South Australian Government's interest. As I said previously, I think the allocation has gone from Sim to $4m. I congratulate  Mr Nixon  on his persistence in the matter. 
I hope these questions are not intended to cause alarm because, as I said in my answer to an earlier question, we really do have a record of very stringent control of air operations in this country. I have no doubt that in the sorts of areas raised by the honourable senator very careful tests are applied. I will refer his question, as 1 will the other question, to the Minister for Transport, but I think that all honourable senators would agree that this is an area in which alarm is really unnecessary. There has been no suggestion that the Boeing 727 or the DC9 has problems in any way related to those which apparently have arisen with the 
DC 10. I am sure that honourable senators are not merely concerned because they themselves fly, but because thousands of their fellow Australians fly every day. The fact that we will be flying in a couple of days is utterly irrelevant. 
I have indicated that I will refer the matter to the Minister for Transport, and I am sure that it will be treated as a matter of urgency. If honourable senators were really concerned about this matter they would have taken it up with the Department of Transport, or the Minister, immediately it arose, and not waited until Question Time at 3 o'clock this afternoon. 
-During Question Time I had a question from  Senator Townley  and subsequently one from  Senator Keeffe  relating to the DC 10 aircraft and other matters flowing from that. I have been advised on a number of points which were raised in the questions. Firstly, the engine bolts of the DC 10 aircraft are a MacDonnell Douglas part number, but at this stage I do not have any information about who was the manufacturer of that part. Other aspects of the questions relating to bolts will be provided as soon as possible. In regard to the engine attachment matter, in the case of the 727 and DC9 aircraft, the engines are not wing mounted and the attachment system differs considerably from that employed in the DC 10-type aircraft. In the case of Boeing 747 aircraft, the engines are wing mounted, but here again the attachment system differs considerably from that of the DC 10. That is as much information as I have been able to obtain at this stage. I can assure honourable senators that I will seek further information as soon as possible. 
I will refer that matter to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  for reply. 
I am not able to provide the information requested by the honourable senator now, but I do not think he sought that. I will seek the information for him and give him a reply as soon as possible. 
I will refer all those questions to  Mr Nixon  for reply. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I want to acknowledge briefly the remarks of  Senator Robertson  on Lake Nash but I do not intend to respond to them in detail this evening. As  Senator Robertson  indicated, I answered a question earlier this month which indicated in part my own attitude to the matter. I regard very seriously the facts which he brought forward. I say to him and to the Senate that my direction to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on one of the many notes which were sent to me on this matter stated that we must be positive in our support of these people. I acknowledge that that is certainly the role of the Department. I will take up the various matters  Senator Robertson  has raised and endeavour to ensure that he receives adequate information with respect to all the points. 1 hope that a number of the criticisms he felt he had to make of my Department and of officers of my Department will prove to be unfounded. I am sure that is also  Senator Robertson's  wish. I repeat what I said earlier in the month; all of us can take some heart from the fact that the organisations which have been funded to perform on behalf of Aboriginals have performed in this case. To that extent, it has been a valuable exercise in showing that Aboriginals in Australia are not defenceless to attack. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) to (4) In the course of my ministerial duties I see a large number of representatives of organisations and a large number of individuals. I make no distinction between cases where such organisations or individuals see me through office bearers in the case of organisations or personally in the case of individuals and those cases where agents professional or otherwise see mc. In any particular case whether or not the identity of the person making the representation should bc disclosed is a matter Tor decision on the basis of the circumstances and, accordingly. I am not prepared to give a blanket answer to the question asked. 
Departmental Approaches by Lobbyists  (Question No. 1219) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) None as Minister and  1  assume information about my travel as a private member is not relevant to the question. 
) to ( 7 ) Not applicable. 
-My attention had been drawn to a couple of interviews on the radio program  AM.  One was on a day that I had to admit to not having listened to that valuable program. These interviews gave much of the information to which the honourable senator has just drawn the Senate's attention. It appears that the two Queensland inventors to whom he has referred have produced something that is particularly significant in the area of solar energy. The potential value of solar energy as a supplementary form of energy at this stage is well established. I am sure that all honourable senators are interested in seeing this sort of invention developed to the advantage of Australia. 
I make it clear to the Senate that the inventors seem to be complaining about the lack of interest of industry, rather than the lack of interest of government. The main thrust of what is said is that Australian business has shown little or no interest and the inventors have had to go to the United States of America where, to the contrary, a great deal of interest has been shown. I can understand  Senator  MacGibbon's  concern about that. I have made some inquiry of the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  and I understand from him that this is the sort of project which is considered under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act. A board considers applications under that Act. I think this invention should be drawn to the board 's attention to see whether assistance can be provided. 
-The figures cited by the honourable senator are very interesting. I am not familiar with the evidence given to Estimates Committee B and I really do not know quite what conclusion one can draw from the figures. For example, I do not know the comparabililty of the range of addressees that are involved in the courier service and the telegram service. In any event, the honourable senator has raised an interesting matter which I shall refer to  Mr Staley  for consideration and reply. 
I regret that I have no recollection of the matters contained in the second part of the honourable senator's question, which was related directly to my period as Minister for Administrative Services. He asked me whether I was involved in the initiation of a survey of this type. Quite frankly, I have no recollection of that. There is some faint stirring of memory, but I really cannot rely on it. I will seek for the honourable senator as soon as possible an answer to all four parts of his question. 
Yesterday  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Townley  asked questions about the crash of a DC 10 aircraft in the United States of America and about certain matters which might relate to the operation of aircraft in Australia. I was able to give them some information at the end of Question Time yesterday. 1 have been provided with further information by the DepartmentofTransport which I think I should put before honourable senators. 
I am advised that it is common for one manufacturer to make parts for different aircraft manufacturers. Electronic equipment, landing gears and engines are prime examples. The bolts from the DC 10 referred to by  Senator Townley  are identified by a Douglas part number and are not used on any of the other aircraft types mentioned. Australian operated Boeing 727 and 747 and Douglas DC9 aircraft are subject to a continuous maintenance inspection system which thoroughly covers the engine attachment areas. The Boeing and Douglas manufactured aircraft operated by Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines have experienced metal fatigue and corrosion damage in various airframe and engine components through their service. It is not practicable to research and retrieve the details of such defects discovered and rectified in Australian aircraft. There is a normal expectancy of such defects in modern transport aircraft and, of course, there is a stringent maintenance overhaul procedure during the life of the aircraft in order to detect and rectify such matters before they progress to a state where safety may be endangered. 
The design of modern transport aircraft uses, where practicable, a fail-safe design philosophy to control the inevitable development of fatigue and corrosion damage in service. The integrity of the aircraft is maintained by means of a substantiated inspection program rather than by introducing a fixed retirement time for the aircraft. Accordingly retirement lives have not been set for Boeing 727 and Douglas DC9 aircraft. It should be emphasised again that the wing engine retention system used on the Douglas DC 10 aircraft is quite different from that used on the other jet transport types operating in Australia. Nevertheless, the airworthiness branch of the Department of Transport is closely monitoring the safety information being released as the investigation of the Chicago DC 10 accident proceeds. 
As more information becomes available the Department will ensure that should any possibility arise that any other aircraft types could become involved, then any necessary action will be taken without delay. 
Although  Senator Evans  made it clear that he had strong feelings on the matters that he brought before the Senate today, it appears plain that to bring them forward in the guise of a matter of urgency somewhat stretches the meaning of the word 'urgency'. Nothing in what has been put to the Senate by the honourable senator suggests that the position is any different today from what it was a month ago, or is any different from what it will be in one months time. I concede that the Senate will not be sitting one month from now but one wonders why on this particular Thursday there is need suddenly to debate as a matter of urgency the funding and administration of the High Court of Australia. 
Of course, if one considers the events of this week and the tactic- within Standing Orders- of the Opposition of taking up time by moving a motion of urgency each day, one can imagine, in the somewhat frazzled condition of the Opposition, that it must get to the point where it says,  What in the world can we talk about next?'. Presumably,  Senator Evans  dusts off some matters of concern- that I know he has been expressing over a period- and says, 'Here is a good subject; we could debate it'. I suggest that that is about the depth of concern on the matter that is before us.  ( Quorum formed). 

 Mr President, Senator Evans put before the Senate four points which he said were matters of concern to him. He spent the bulk of his time on the question of extravagance of the new High Court building. He spoke at some lengthindeed, with some heat- about what has happened. It seemed to me that he overlooked some very important matters. For example, hie stressed that most of the cost relates to packaging. He went on to refer to the large ceremonial hall which is involved and the mass of surrounding space to service the building, and so on. Of course, that particular matter of urgency is one that has been around since 1973. This building was designed in 1 973 in a competition instituted when the Whitlam Government was in power. The decision was made about the design by the Whitlam Government and the then Prime Minister made a speech on 29 September 1975 in which he expressed his very considerable enthusiasm for what was being done. 
It is interesting to contrast the views which have been put by  Senator Evans  today with the views that were put by the man who actually had the responsibility for getting this building started in 1975. I refer to a journal which is well known to  Senator Evans;  namely, the  Australian Law Journal.  At page 559 of volume 49 speeches by  Mr Whitlam  and his colleague,  Mr Uren,  on this building will be found. In its design terms, this building has this extravagance of space about which  Senator Evans  is complaining. Let us hear what  Mr Whitlam  said about  Sir Garfield  Barwick in 1975. He stated: 
In October 1973, he-- 

 Sir Garfield Barwick was one of the assessors to choose the successful architect. And on 8 October, 1973. he and I announced the winners. I must say, and in this I would be supported by the National Capital Development Commission and a very great number of people in the profession as well as in the administration, that since then  Sir Garfield  has been unremitting in seeing that this building proceeded. I don't really believe that the plans could have been so far advanced but for the pressure, completely proper pressure, which he has brought to bear upon mc in this way. 
Compare what  Mr Whitlam  said and contrast with the carping speech that the Senate heard from  Senator Evans  today. He said: 
The building will be a noble one. It may not be as noble as the Chief Justice might have aspired to have it. But it's the best the country can produce or afford and it will bc in a splendid setting, it will be a worthy home for the Court which stands at the peak of our national judicial system. All of us, I believe, on this occasion should pay tribute to those who over the decades have sought to have this Court in Canberra, and not least to the Chief Justice and the present Justices who have spurred us to see that within not so many years- three or four- the principal seat of the High Court, a noble seat, will be at the seat of government. 
That was the Labor Party view in 1 975. It reflects a little more national pride and credit than what we heard from  Senator Evans  today.  Mr Uren,  a man who is not notable for promoting palaces which are out of touch with the wishes of people, said: 
Now we are engaged in building a National Gallery, and this High Court building. 
I gather the National Gallery is another palace of which the Labor Party was proud in 1975- 
Much care has gone into designing these two buildings, so they blend together . . . When the British town planner, Lord Holford, visited Australia a few years ago he was critical of the quality of Canberra's public buildings. He made the valid point that the only building of international stature here was the National Library. Now the creation of these two closely linked buildings will draw much of the sting from this sort of criticism. 
I ask honourable senators to contrast what  Senator Evans  said today with those words of 1975 when so many of the features that have been criticised by him today were determined.  Senator Evans  went on to detail a series of things which have been changed. He selected the change of glass. He made some reference, in a rather sneering manner, to the fact that it was bullet-proof glass. The Government received advise on that matter from the sort of people who do advise it, who are involved and concerned in matters of security. I am advised that the changes were made for that reason. 
A comparison of the costs for this building with building costs generally and a study of new items which have been added will explain the rise from $ 18m to over $40m which was talked about by  Senator Evans.  Of course, in a sense we are fortunate that the rise was not even greater. I sought some information about the percentage increase in building costs over recent years. They tell a story of their own. Remember those wonderful days when Labor was planning this building? The increase in 1973-74 was 18.6 per cent. In 1974-75 it was 15.8 percent and in 1975-76 it was 15.2 per cent. Are they not nice sorts of annual increases in cost? There is an extraordinary change in the next two years. For the years 1976-77 and 1977-78 the rises were 7.9 per cent and 6.6 per cent. I am grateful to  Senator Evans  for drawing to my attention yet again the shambles that his Government, the Government he supported, managed to produce and some of the improvements the coalition parties have been able to effect since it came into government. 
We have heard complaints from  Senator Evans  on other aspects of this building. He complained about staffing. I am advised that all staffing for this building will be subject to Public Service Board approval; it will not be a matter which is at the sole discretion of the Court. The building will be subject to staff ceilings, as are other areas of Government activity. I understand that some decisions have been taken with respect to numbers, but those decisions cannot be finalised until the Budget discussions are completed. Hence, at this stage I cannot say in any firm way what the staffing position will be in the new building. 
That brings me to another point. Perhaps the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  if he were here, might have felt more able than 1 am to respond to some of the points raised by  Senator Evans.  Of course, this matter is of such urgency that it had to be heard today and not next Monday, when the Attorney will be here.  Mr President,  you would be amazed how important it is to the people of Australia that we should debate the question of the High Court this week in the absence of the Attorney rather than wait for three days. I think it is extremely important that people should understand that  Senator Evans  feels so deeply about this matter and is so concerned to extract information for the people of Australia that he cannot even wait until the Attorney-General is here to deal with the matter, which is within his portfolio responsibility. It again underlines the lack of sincerity with which this matter is put before the Senate as a matter of urgency. I do not challenge  Senator Evans's  sincere interest in the matters of administration that he has raised. I challenge the matter being brought forward as a matter which is urgent, for the consideration of this Parliament today. 

 Senator Evans has raised matters which relate to the quality of information made available. I regret that I am not able to respond as fully as I would like to the matters he has raised, which I am sure are of interest to people who are interested in legal administration in this country. I will refer the matters which he raised to the Attorney. I suggest to  Senator Evans  that if he is genuinely concerned about those matters there are better ways of doing it than with this motion. 
I am grateful that at the end of his comments  Senator Button  made it clear why he thought this was a matter which should be debated by the Senate. I think I quote him reasonably exactly when I say that he said that it was important that the Opposition's view be understood, and that what it wanted was clear answers to questions which were put by its members. I think that is a very reasonable request on the part of the Opposition, that it should get clear answers. I do want to put to the Senate, though, that the matter which has been raised, and the way it has been explained by  Senator Carrick-  indeed the basic facts of this matter- are before all senators, because it all happened out in the open and we saw the reason for what happened. The oddity about this matter is that this morning  Senator Webster,  who is the senator who has been under criticism in previous matters, gave a very short and clear answer to a question which was put to him. That answer has already been cited by  Senator Button.  I would have thought that the answer was a model of brevity and clarity. 
What has brought this matter back before the Senate now is that subsequent to that quite clear and brief answer by  Senator Webster,  a question was asked of  Senator Carrick  in circumstances which have been explained. There was an exchange, which again has been described by  Senator Button,  before the motion was moved here this afternoon, which gave rise to a comment by  Senator Carrick  which he has explained, in a way which  Senator Button  has acknowledged was appreciated by the Opposition. 
It was an explanation by  Senator Carrick  of how he came to understand that the view put in  Senator Button's  question was inaccurate and why, as it has transpired, the view put by  Senator Button  has been found to be accurate. The full explanation is before us because the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has explained in the House of Representatives his answer which was not in accord with the brief and clear answer, given by . 

 Senator Webster in the Senate, which was in accordance with government policy. 
-What, the full statement of  Mr Newman? 
I am quite happy either to table the document or incorporate it in  Hansard.  It is the same statement as was read. 
I am quite happy to make a copy of it available to the Opposition. I table the document. But the point is that an answer not in accord with Government policy was apparently given in the House of Representatives this morning. I have not seen the  Hansard  record of that, but it is clear from the statement which has been read to the Senate by  Senator Carrick  that the Minister has indicated that he misheard the question and he therefore answered it incorrectly. That is the sole area of misunderstanding. 
As far as what happened in this Senate is concerned, there is no going back on the answer which was given briefly and clearly by  Senator Webster  with respect to what government policy is, or what the Government's intentions are.  Senator Carrick  has explained in a way which I think is totally satisfactory how he came to suggest that  Senator Button  had not been accurate in his question. I do not believe, therefore, that the great issues of principle which we have been debating on other days, motions of no confidence, et cetera, which have again been cited by  Senator Button,  arise. I very respectfully suggest to the Senate and the Opposition that these issues do not really arise with respect to what has happened here in the Senate today. I really do think that that is drawing a very long bow, because what happened here in the Senate today is quite overt and easy to understand. It has been fully explained and the statement of  Mr Newman  can be debated, as  Senator Button  began to do in a very minor way. But that, of course, is not something which happened in this chamber. It is something which affected the view which was adopted in this chamber. 
I would like to emulate  Senator Carrick  in the approach that he has adopted in this matter. It is a matter of regret for Government senators and Ministers that there should be any misunderstanding about a matter raised in this chamber. I simply suggest that this is not a matter in which there could be any suggestion that any Minister in this Senate has breached any of the principles which were referred to by  Senator Button. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1) Yes. The suspension took effect from July 1976 and applied also to claims to traditional Aboriginal land, pending the passing of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
Yes. In a statement on 8 August 1976, the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs stated, inter alia, that 'a number of applications by Aboriginals for land in town areas, which had been submitted to the Interim Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, arc now being dealt with jointly by my Department and by the Department of the Northern Territory". 
and (4) The 'needs' applications lodged with the interim Land Commissioner and their status as at 2 1 June 1 976, were as follows: 
Kulaluk (Darwin)- Interim Land Commissioner's report submitted 23 June 1 975 recommending that a Special Purposes Lease bc granted; action was proceeding on the acquisition of private interests in part of the land in question. 
Railway Dam (Darwin)- Interim Land Commissioner's report submitted 21 July 1975 recommending that a Special Purposes Lease be granted; action was awaiting consideration by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
Adelaide River- Interim Land Commissioner's report submitted 7 October 1975 recommending that a Special Purposes Lease be granted; endorsed in principle by Ministers. 
Knuckey 's Lagoon (Darwin)- Hearings completed; report not prepared. 
Tree Point (Koolpinyah)- As above. 
Lake Nash- Hearings adjourned by the Commissioner sine die because the lessee was prepared to negotiate with the Aboriginals for a sub-lease of part ofthe property. 
Elliott Village- Hearing not commenced. 
Alice Springs 
Dalgety's Paddock- Hearings almost complete: some further evidence required. 
Charles River- As above. 
Alec Simpson's Camp- As above. 
Hume Site (Ootnarungatcha) - As above. 
Heavitree Gap (Larapinta )- As above. 
Sadadeen (East Side)- As above. 
Dick Palmer's Camp- As above. 
Mount Nancy- As above. 
Ilparpa- As above. 
Artists' Camp- As above. 
Leases have been issued in relation to the following applications: 
Railway Dam 
Dalgety's Paddock 
Charles River 
Alec Simpson's Camp 
Hume Site (Ootnarungatcha 
Dick Palmer's Camp 
Mount Nancy 
Ilparpa. 
and (7)- 
Kulaluk- Action is proceeding and I expect that the Northern Territory Government will issue a Special Purposes Lease withing the next few months. 
Adelaide River- The Northern Territory Government has advised that a lease will be issued within a month. 
Knuckey's Lagoon- The Northern Territory Government has agreed to issue a Special Purposes Lease over a 22 hectare area and a request for an additional area is under consideration. 
Tree Point (Koolpinyah)- Negotiations with the lessee of the property for excising of the area in question are proceeding. 
Lake Nash- Before a sub-lease could be granted it was necessary to amend the Northern Territory Crown Lands Ordinance: the amendment was passed in 1978 and proclaimed in February 1979, but in the meantime the lessee decided against a sub-lease. It is likely that further negotiations will now take place. 
Elliott Village- Application for a Special Purposes Lease is under consideration by the Northern Territory Government. 
Heavitree Gap (Larapinta)- Negotiations with the Northern Territory Government are continuing. 
Sadadeen (East Side)- The Northern Territory Government has agreed in principle to the issue of a Special Purposes Lease. 
Artists' Camp- Application has been abandoned. Now being treated as part of the Heavitree Gap application. 
None. Only traditional claims lodged under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 are affected by the recent extension of town boundaries. 
Yes. As indicated above the applications are being met by the grant of leases or are the subject of negotiations between the applicant groups, my Department and the Northern Territory Government. 
10) The Commonwealth Government, through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, has responsibility for policy, planning and co-ordination in Aboriginal affairs matters in the Northern Territory, and hence has a responsibility to see that the reasonable needs of Aboriginal groups for land are appropriately met. The Northern Territory Government is responsible for the issue of leases. 
Aboriginal Land Claims in  the  Northern Territory  (Question No. 1479) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The 'freeze' imposed in December 1972 related only to the granting of leases and exploration licences in Aboriginal reserves, pending legislation to give Aboriginals tenure of these lands. 
The second Report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission in April 1974 recommended that 21 specific areas of vacant Crown land should not be alienated before 1976 in order to allow Aboriginals time to formulate any claims they might wish to make to those lands (paragraph 181 (ii)). I understand the Government accepted in principle the recommendations of the Report in July 1 974. 
3 ) to ( 7 ) I understand that the ' freeze ' in respect of the 2 1 specified areas was extended to 3 1 December 1 976 following a recommendation to that effect by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, in a land claim report of 10 September 1975. The 'freeze' was not continued beyond 3 1 December 1 976. On 8 August 1 976,  Mr Viner  stated that the expiry of the 'freeze' would not be detrimental to Aboriginal land claims because the Government would not release unalienated Crown land in the Northern Territory that was subject to any known traditional claim by Aboriginals.  Mr Viner  further stated, on 2 November 1976, that notice of intention to lodge a claim would suffice for this purpose. The Northern Territory Government has advised me that it reserves the right to take action to preserve areas of land for development purposes in special circumstances, such as future urban development. Subject to this important qualification the Northern Territory Government has undertaken not to alienate any vacant Crown land before 24 August 1 980, and not to alienate vacant Crown land which is the subject of a land claim lodged with the Aboriginal Land Commissioner before the claim is heard and my decision on the Commissioner's recommendation is announced, provided the decision is made within a reasonable time after receipt of the Commissioner's report. 
and (9) The extended town areas of Katherine and Tennant Creek include portions of land claims which had already been lodged with the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. As indicated in the joint statement issued by the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, the  Chairman  of the three land Councils, and myself on 17 March 1979, the Northern Territory Government is to discuss with the Land Councils the extensions to Darwin, Alice Springs, Tennant Creek and Katherine with particular reference to land claims which may be affected. The statement indicated that the Northern Territory Government contemplated no further extensions within the ' freeze ' period. 
10) No such amendments are contemplated at this time. 
I did see the newspaper article to which the honourable senator has referred. I have to agree that the figures quoted, if correct, are important and very sobering. I think that what the honourable senator put is axiomatic- that sensible policies do have to be based on ascertained facts. I will make some inquiries to ascertain whether the figures given in the article are accurate and, if they are accurate, on what basis they were obtained, and let the honourable senator have that information. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Health for reply. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) to (7) 1 refer the honourable senator to the answer provided to him by the Prime Minister to his Question on Notice No. 1335 (Senate  Hansard,  2 May 1979, Pages 1608-9). 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (4) There arc no special arrangements made to record approaches to the Minister or his personal staff by particular companies, professional agencies or lobbyists. 
As such organisations are not accorded any special treatment, there is no reason why there should be such special arrangements. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The honourable senator has asked a series of questions relating to a statement made by  Sir Reginald  Ansett supporting the upgrading of one airport on the north-west coast of Tasmania to jet port standards. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that evaluations of the various options have not been undertaken. No estimates of costs are available as yet, and as a result the Government's attitude to the upgrading of airports to jet port standards will have to await the outcome of those evaluations. In other words, the Government does not have adequate information at the moment to make the sort of decision in which the honourable senator is interested. 
I know of no suspension of the nature mentioned by the honourable senator. There has been, of course, an assumption of responsibility by the Northern Territory Government for the provision of essential services, including water supply. That may be the matter to which the honourable senator refers.  His  question as to the handing over of the sections of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Northern Territory to the Northern Territory Government is not based on fact and there is no intention to take action of the sort he mentioned. 
The honourable senator asked a series of questions which in one form or other have come up in this chamber previously. With respect to the agreement of 30 May, I have seen reports of that agreement but I have not seen the agreement itself. With respect to the technicalities as to precisely who owns PBL Sports, I have to say that I have never made inquiries as to the precise ownership but I have always understood that it was a company which came within what is called the Packer group. I think the general drift of what the honourable senator put before the Senate is probably correct. 
As to whether the agreement provides exclusive rights to broadcast cricket over three years, my understanding is that that is the position. However, I am relying on reports as I have not sighted the agreement. I am not aware of the 10-year period for the promotion of cricket which was referred to by the honourable senator. I will refer those aspects of the question which are beyond my knowledge to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and seek a further reply. 
With respect to what action the Government has taken, honourable senators would be aware of discussions which took place within one of the Senate Estimates committees with representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which at that stage had not received any communication at all from PBL Sports although there had been Press speculation, and indeed speculation in this Parliament, about the role that the ABC might play in filling the gaps left around Australia by the commercial network. But whether there has been any further action taken by PBL Sports to treat with the ABC is a matter about which I will have to make some inquiries. The suggestion which the honourable senator made that the agreement might be in breach of the Trade Practices Act is, as far as I know, a novel one. I pick it up with great interest and, like him, I will eagerly await a reply. 
I am beginning to think that I am unaware of all sorts of interesting things. The only complaints that I have ever heard about letter boxes have come from many people I have met who strongly resent the rubbishy literature that is poked into their letter boxes at election times by Labor candidates. Apart from having had that complaint put to me time and time again, I have heard remarkably little comment on advertising material about such things as refrigerators, and so on. It may be that I do not receive the complaints because I only represent the Minister in this place. I will make inquiries to see whether  Mr Staley  has been receiving a different form of complaint from those which 1 have been receiving. If he has, I will let the honourable senator know. In light of my earlier answer, I am sure it will be clear to the Senate that I am not aware of any growing resentment in this field. Again, I will seek  Mr Staley  's guidance on that matter. I will also seek his guidance as to whether there have been complaints from the postal people about their inability to stuff the boxes further with  Her  Majesty's mail. 
by leave- I have little doubt that there is nothing further to be done on this matter this afternoon. What 1 think was said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)-  I have spoken briefly with him since he sat down- arose out of the material which you,  Mr President,  have put before us today. You put that material before us pursuant to the undertaking that you gave when you spoke on Thursday, that if you received any further information you would immediately acquaint the Senate. Part of the material you put before us was an extract from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 3 1 May, which sets out  Mr Burns  's requests. Those requests include requests to  Mr Speaker  and requests which he asked  Mr Speaker  to pass on to you. The requests to  Mr Speaker  have been acted on to some extent in that there has been a communication with you.  Mr President.  As I understand it, no suggestion has been made that  Senator Cavanagh  should be brought before the bar of the House of Representatives. That was the first request made by  Mr Burns. His  second request reads: 
. I request  Mr President  to take appropriate action Tor  Senator Cavanagh  's gross abuse of the privileges of Parliament . . . 
It continues, but I wish to refer just to that part. I think all the Leader of the Government was saying was that in the course of your consideration of this matter,  Mr President,  and as part of any inquiries that are continuing, at some stage you should indicate to the Senate your attitude to the various requests that have been put before you. That would be simply an indication of a view point, I think. Any action would depend on whether the Senate wished to move in a particular direction. The request has been made publicly that appropriate action, whatever that is, be taken- I say that without wishing to make any inference as to what it is- with respect to an alleged abuse of privilege. That is a matter on which at a later stage the Senate usefully might hear your views. I think we should leave any further discussion until then. 

 Senator Cavanagh has raised an important principle about which honourable senators would be concerned but where there is probably no formal protection. Drawing an analogy with trial proceedings, he said that he would not wish to be tried twice. That is the sort of matter on which I think all honourable senators would wish to ponder. One of the most disturbing things about the whole area of privilege- whether we are using it and making statements under its cover or whether we are concerned to protect the Parliament- is the ill definition of what that privilege entails. It is a matter that I know concerns may honourable senators on this side of the chamber and I am sure that it concerns honourable senators opposite, some of whom would have debated this years ago in the context of the Rae report. These are difficult matters,  Mr President,  and I respectfully suggest that, having heard your comments this afternooon, we should await your further comments. We can then give the matter further consideration, if it appears necessary. 
by leave- I inform honourable senators that pursuant to section 48K of the Audit Act 1901, the Governor-General has approved arrangements made by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  for  Mr Evan  D. Cameron, F.C.A.,  Chairman  of the National Management Committee of Hungerfords, chartered accountants of 167 Macquarie Street, Sydney, New South 
Wales, to be the independent auditor of the Auditor-General's Office. Hungerfords is a national partnership totally owned and controlled in Australia. The firm is one of the four founding firms of Alexander Grant Tansley Witt, an international accounting association represented by some 8,000 people in more than 50 countries. Whilst each of the member firms has the right to use the international firm name, Alexander Grant Tansley Witt does not itself practice. Its purpose is to lay down the technical standards and policies for all of its member firms in order to ensure that clients of the member firms are provided with services of the highest quality in whichever countries they operate. 

 Mr Cameron has been a partner of Hungerfords since 1962. He became  Chairman  of the firm's National Management Committee in 1977.  Mr Cameron's  appointment is for three financial years commencing with the year 1978-79. As required by the Audit Act, his first report will be in respect of the financial year 1978-79 and will be annexed to the AuditorGeneral 's report in respect of that year. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  what is a quite lengthy second reading speech. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Copyright Act in relation to photocopying, copying for handicapped readers and record piracy. 
Photocopying 
The most extensive provisions in the Bill relate to photocopying, or to be more precise reprographic reproduction of works, and they arise out of recommendations made in the report of the Copyright Law Committee on Reprographic Reproduction. I shall refer to that Committee as the Franki Committee, in recognition of its distinguished  Chairman, Mr Justice  Franki. The Franki Committee was appointed in 1974 by the then Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  Its terms of reference were cast in very wide terms so that it could consider all the copyright implications of photocopying developments. In doing so it was required to consider the need for a proper balance of interest between owners of copyright and the users of copyright material. 
The Franki Committee furnished its report to my predecessor,  Mr Ellicott,  in October 1976. I wish, at this point, to express the Government's gratitude to  Mr Justice  Franki and to members of the Committee for the service which they have rendered to the community in this most difficult area. In its report the Committee noted that, as a result of developments in reprographic reproduction of published material, large numbers of people now have the facility to reproduce copyright material without having to resort to the laborious methods that had previously limited the quantities of material copied. In these circumstances infringing copying can take place without the knowledge of the copyright owner who, from a practical standpoint, is unable to enforce his rights. 
A tension had thus developed between the expectations of many copyright owners that they should benefit from the greater availability of their works, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the needs of the community for ready access to information and knowledge. As the basis of its approach the Franki Committee adopted the following passage of the 1959 report of the Copyright Law Review Committee: 
The primary end of the law on this subject is to give to the author of a creative work his just reward for the benefit he has bestowed on the community and also to encourage the making of further creative works. On the other hand, as copyright is in the nature of a monopoly, the law should ensure, as far as possible, that the rights conferred are not abused and that study, research and education are not unduly hampered. 
The problem is not peculiar to Australia. The problems considered by the Franki Committee are engaging the attention of copyright experts and governments in many countries, but an early international consensus on how to deal with those problems is unlikely. For its part, the Franki Committee concluded that a reasonable amount of unremunerated copying by a person, at least for research or study, should be allowed. The Committee rejected as inappropriate proposals that would require payment on a per page basis to individual owners of copyright for all reprographic copies made. 
The Committee pointed out that the rights of the copyright owner have never been absolute in the sense that no dealing at all with his work could ever take place without his consent. It drew particular attention to the right to copy minor or insubstantial parts of a work; the right to make copies in the course of what is known in copyright law as a 'fair dealing'; and the right to engage in copying of a public benefit nature by librarians, educational bodies, research establishments and individuals. 
The Committee was of the view that much of the photocopying taking place is likely to be within these existing exceptions and that the appropriate course, in the light of photocopying developments, would be to retain those exceptions but to modify or extend them to meet modern needs. At the same time the Committee saw a need to ensure that copyright owners were fairly remunerated in certain fields of multiple copying carried out by educational establishments. 
The Bill gives effect to the recommendations of the Franki Committee, which I shall now briefly explain. More detailed explanations are provided in the explanatory memorandum I have circulated. I have mentioned the existing right of a person to copy only an insubstantial part of a work in which copyright exists. The Franki Committee was aware of difficulties that arise in this connection but considered it impractical to attempt to lay down any tests to determine what is an insubstantial part of the work. I have also mentioned the 'fair dealing' exception. The Committee recommended that this exception be retained in relation to photocopying, but subject to the following amendments: 
inclusion of guidelines in regard to what constitutes a fair dealing, coupled with a conclusive presumption that copying within certain specified limits constitutes such a dealing. 
omission of the word 'private' from section 40, thereby removing the existing arbitrary distinction between a fair dealing for private study and one for other educational purposes. 
inclusion of a provision to make it clear that the installation of self-service copying machines in libraries does not of itself impose any liability for copyright upon the librarian or the librarian's employer provided notices in a prescribed form are displayed drawing users' attention to the relevant provisions of the Act. 
Copying by librarians falls into two main classes. One class includes copying for users of the libraries; the other includes copying for other libraries. The Franki Committee viewed libraries as information resource centres with a legitimate need to copy material. As in the case of copying by individuals, the Committee considered and rejected proposals for royalties to be payable on such copying. 
Section 49 of the Act already makes provision for copying by libraries for students and members of parliament. The Franki Committee noted that the degree of copying permitted under that section is considered appropriate by most librarians. It also noted, however, that librarians were finding difficulty in determining what constitutes a 'reasonable portion' of a work for the purpose of section 4. The Committee was not able to formulate a more satisfactory expression than 'reasonable portion ' but it proposed the addition of a provision to make it clear that the expression covers at least one chapter or ten per cent of the number of pages in an edition. Other changes proposed by the Committee in relation to copying by a library for users are: 
The existing requirement that the librarian be satisfied as to the purpose for which the copy is required be changed so that it is sufficient if the librarian or person acting on his behalf receives in good faith a signed statement declaring that the purpose falls within the section and that the copy will not be used for any other purpose. 
The inclusion of provisions permitting the copying of an entire work or more than a reasonable portion of it where an unused copy of the work cannot be obtained within a reasonable time at a normal commercial price. 
The existing requirement in section 49 that the person supplied with a copy pay not less then the cost of making the copy be changed to a prohibition of any charge in excess of the cost of making the copy. 
I turn now to inter-library loans. The Franki Committee was satisfied of the desirability of facilitating such loans, particularly in the scientific and technical field. Provision for such loans at present exists in section 50, the detailed provisions of which, however, the Committee concluded were unsatisfactory. It, accordingly, proposed the following amendments: 
The protection to the supplying librarian should not, as it does now, depend on whether the requesting librarian complies with the section or upon the acts of the person to whom the copy is supplied by the requesting librarian. 
The position of the requesting librarian should be equated to the position I have already discussed of a librarian under section 49. 
The protection of section 50 should not apply to a borrowing by a library for its own collection. 
Certain other recommendations relating to libraries and archives have been incorporated in the Bill. The provisions of the Bill giving effect to these recommendations are as follows: 
Limited multiple copying without remuneration (up to six copies) of articles in periodicals and of other works are to be permitted where the copies are for use only within a library of a non-profit educational establishment. 
b) A library or archives is to be able to copy an unpublished work for the purpose of preservation, security or research use. 
A library or archives is to be able to copy a published work for the purpose of replacement of a copy that is damaged, deteriorating, lost or stolen, where an unused copy cannot be obtained within a reasonable time at a normal commercial price. 
A library or archives to be able to make one microfilm or microfiche copy of a work where it is intended to destroy the original. 
With the exception of the provision proposed for the making of up to six copies for temporary use within a library, the proposals I have mentioned provide for the making of individual copies only. 
In addition to those proposals the Franki Committee recommended that provision be made for multiple copying when carried out in non-profit educational establishments. These proposals are possibly the most significant advanced by the Committee. Some provision for multiple copying is already made in section 200 of the Act but the provision in that section is not applicable to photocopying and is regarded by the Committee as unsatisfactory. The Committee was satisfied that multiple copying was taking place in educational establishments and that it was likely that some of that copying was an infringement of copyright under the existing law. 
To the extent that there was a demand for the making of multiple copies for use in educational establishments the Committee considered that the copyright law should accommodate that demand. On the other hand it also considered that where the copying represented a substantial use of the property of a copyright owner it should not be carried out without provision for remuneration to that owner. The Committee pointed out that it is open to an educational establishment to seek permission from a copyright owner to make multiple copies of his work and to pay such royalties as the owner may demand. But the Committee's view was that in most cases it is not practicable to obtain such specific permission in advance. 
In these circumstances the Committee proposed a statutory licence scheme. Under the scheme non-profit educational establishments would be granted a statutory licence to make multiple copies of works subject to recording any such copying and an obligation to pay an appropriate royalty if demanded by the copyright owner within a prescribed time. The precise nature of the provisions for fixing any such remuneration was a matter on which there was a division of opinion between members of the Franki Committee. The approach adopted by the Bill is that the remuneration should be negotiated between the parties concerned but if they are unable to reach agreement the Copyright Tribunal will have the function of arbitrating between them. 
The keeping by educational establishments of proper records of the copying they carry out pursuant to this statutory licence will, of course, be a matter of great importance since it will be the basis of claims for remuneration by copyright owners. In recognition of this the Bill makes it an offence to carry out such copying and not keep the required records for the prescribed time. In addition there are provisions which will enable the entitlement of an educational establishment to participate in the scheme to be cancelled if it should be convicted more than once of such an offence. 
The Bill provides, as was foreshadowed in my Press announcement of the Government's decision to introduce this legislation, that records should be kept in a manner which will enable the person whose works have been copied to obtain details of that copying without having to examine the details of other copying. That provision should ensure that the records are readily examinable by authors without imposing an onerous burden upon institutions. 
Before deciding to implement the proposals of the Committee for multiple copying the Government gave close consideration to alternative proposals submitted to it by the Australian Copyright Council. Those proposals envisaged a voluntary licence scheme, which would apply where a collecting agency reached an agreement with an educational establishment. Under that scheme all authors would have to depend on the collecting agency whether they were members of it or not. The Government concluded that it would not be appropriate to place authors in that position. In saying this I wish to make it very clear that the scheme provided for in the Bill in no way precludes parties from entering into voluntary licensing arrangements. 
The Franki Committee made one other proposal for multiple copying. The Committee was of the opinion that a special case could be made out for permitting up to three copies to be made for classroom instruction without remuneration. A provision to this effect has been included in the Bill. It is designed to replace section 200 ( 1) (a) which at present provides for a right of a similar kind but which, as previously mentioned, the Committee considers to be unsatisfactory. Given the considerable increase in the number of categories of copying which will be permitted under the Bill if a copyright owner is to be able to proceed upon discovering a copy, it is necessary that he know pursuant to what provision that copy was made. 
Accordingly, the Bill provides that where a copy is made in reliance upon one of the provisions therein referred to, a note must be made on the copy stating the section relied upon, the date upon which the copy was made, the name of the person who made the copy and, if relevant, for whom it was made. Failure to note the copy will prevent the copier from relying upon any of those provisions to gain immuity from infringement proceedings. 
Copying for Handicapped Readers 
In announcing the Government's decision to introduce this legislation, I stated that the Bill would include provisions to alleviate the copyright problems at present confronting educational establishments assisting visually handicapped people. There is a simple needimperative in a modern community- for the blind to be able to study and to learn. As was stated, more than a century ago, by Louis Braille, himself blind, 'Without books the blind simply cannot learn '. 
The Government has received representations, as did the Franki Committee, although they were outside its terms of reference, regarding difficulties experienced by institutions in obtaining the permission of copyright owners to reproduce published works in braille or sound recording form for the use of handicapped readers. The point of complaint was not that permission had been refused but that there have been troublesome delays which impose difficulty upon students. Students have to comply with the demands of their courses and undergo great hardship if, at the time of classroom instruction or examination upon a particular work, they have not been able to obtain the copyright owner's permission for it to be reproduced in a form which they can use. Such a student is, by reason of his handicap, in the unique position of being unable to 'read ' a work even though it has already been made available to the general public. 
The scheme proposed and included in the Bill is a logical extension of that provided to permit educational institutions to make multiple copies of works for teaching purposes. A statutory licensing scheme is established under which an institution assisting handicapped readers will be able to make a copy of published copyright material in braille or sound recording form for the research or study purposes of a reader, without the permission of the copyright owner, and without being at risk as to infringement. 
Handicapped readers who will benefit from the scheme comprise the blind and those suffering severe visual impairment. Also included are the physically handicapped who cannot hold or manipulate books, or focus or move their eyes, and those suffering from dyslexia. The institutions entitled to the statutory licence will be specified by schedule or regulation. The statutory licence will not allow the making of a braille or sound recording version of a work if such a version is commercially available. 
The copyright owner will be entitled to receive fair remuneration for reproduction of his work. To this end the institution must keep appropriate copying records which will form the basis for a copyright owner's claim for remuneration. The Copyright Tribunal may determine this if the owner and the institution cannot reach agreement. Copyright will not vest in the maker of the handicapped readers copy by reason of the making of that copy. As a result institutions assisting handicapped readers will be able to copy handicapped readers' copies made by each other unless to do so would involve infringement of the copyright in the original work. 
The Government is aware that certain institutions assisting the blind and the visually restricted have already come to satisfactory arrangements with publishers regarding reproduction of copyright works. The provision introduced by the Bill need not affect those arrangements; indeed the right of a copyright owner and an institution to make arrangements alternative to those of the statutory scheme is specifically preserved. 
Record Piracy 
I now leave the matter of the photocopying and copying for handicapped readers for a different but very important subject dealt with by the Bill, namely provisions which will increase substantially the penalties for record piracy. Under section 132 of the Act, it is an offence to sell, exhibit in public by way of trade, or import into Australia for such purposes, articles which the person engaging in those acts knows to infringe copyright material. The penalties provided were satisfactory when piracy was a relatively rare event undertaken by isolated individuals. Today it is a highly organised business facilitated by the spread of cheap, fast copying equipment. Recordings are often manufactured in, and exported from, countries with inadequate copyright laws where no primary recording costs are borne and no royalties are paid to the artists or composers. 
Australian record industry sources estimate the value of retail sales lost to cheaper pirated tapes to be in the region of $ 10m annually, and rapidly increasing. To meet this problem maximum penalties for offences will be substantially increased and the Federal Court of Australia is to be invested with jurisdiction. For example, the penalty for importing an infringing article will be increased from $ 10 for a first offence to $ 1 50 per article, with a limit of $1,500 for articles in the same transaction- $10,000 in the Federal Court. Provisions are also added to permit confiscation of equipment used to make pirated recordings. 
Conclusion 
As the Bill is a long one, I do not propose to detain honourable senators at this stage by describing the provisions of the Bill in greater detail. The detailed explanation of the provisions is set out in the explanatory memorandum which I have distributed. The recommendations of the Franki Committee have been adopted by the Government after very extensive discussions with affected interests. In formulating the legislation, however, many matters of detail have had to be considered. The Government has taken the view that the Bill ought not to proceed to debate immediately but should first be available for public comment. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1 975 to facilitate the development of a township at Jabiru, which is located in the Kakadu National Park, consistent with the Government's announced policies on uranium mining development. The Kakadu National Park was proclaimed under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act on 5 April 1 979 and was a major step in giving effect to the protective measures which the Government announced would be established in the Alligator Rivers region before permitting mining of uranium to commence. 
The first stage declared covered an area of some 6,000 square kilometres. The area for stage II will as soon as practicable be declared a conservation zone under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act to ensure that the park values are protected prior to its formal inclusion in the Park. In keeping with the recommendation of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the Government decided that the mining town to serve mines developed in the region should be included in Kakadu National Park and should be a closed town with a limited population. The town will be developed on land leased from the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and will be subject to the plan of management. 
The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act requires the Director National Parks and Wildlife as soon as practicable after a park or reserve has been declared to prepare a plan of management in respect of that park or reserve. The Director has to follow a series of steps directed by the Act in preparing the plan of management, including the receipt of public submissions and making the plan available for comment by interested persons. There will also be close consultation with the Northern Territory Government and the Northern Land Council in the preparation of the plan of management. The Director then submits the plan to the Minister for Science and the Environment together with any representations made and comments by the Director on those representations. The Minister when he is satisfied with the plan of management, will lay the plan before both Houses of Parliament. Either House of the Parliament, within 20 sitting days of that House, may, in pursuance of a motion upon notice, pass a resolution disallowing the plan. If neither House passes a motion of disallowance, the plan of management then comes into operation. 
It was the Government's intention that by including the townsite in the national park the town would be planned and managed in accord with the park plan of management. Following the Government's decision in November last year, to allow the Ranger uranium deposit to be developed, increasing numbers of people are moving into the mining areas adjacent to the park. It it important that an early commencement be made on preliminary construction work in relation to the Jabiru town to ensure that a properly developed town of high amenity is established as soon as practicable, so that workers and their families are not accommodated in temporary camps any longer than is necessary. The Jabiru Town Development Authority, a statutory authority set up under Northern Territory legislation, has been established to develop the town. 
Under the existing requirements of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act the procedures relating to the coming into force of a plan of management will take some time to complete. The amendment envisages a mechanism which would permit an early start to be made to preliminary construction work prior to the plan of management formally coming into effect. The proposed amendments will ensure that park values are properly protected while such preliminary construction work proceeds. It is the intention that the major construction work in the town will take place within the framework of the plan of management. Construction in the Northern Territory is largely limited to the dry season- that is April to the end of Novemberand during this dry season the Jabiru Town Development Authority proposes a program to build the construction camp and access roads, and to provide temporary water supply, sewerage, power and telecommunication services for the camp.  Major construction  work on the township is not scheduled by the Jabiru Town Development Authority in this dry season. 
The amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act contained in this Bill permit the Director, before the plan of management is in effect, to approve, by instrument in writing, the performance within the park of such work as he considers necessary or desirable for the establishment of a township at Jabiru, upon such conditions as he considers desirable. Before granting a licence, the Director will be required to consult closely with the Jabiru Town Development Authority and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. The Jabiru Town Development Authority will be the focus for co-ordination of the views of the relevant Northern Territory authorities. 
In issuing such a licence, the Director shall specify environmental conditions to be a part of that licence to ensure that the park values are preserved. The licence will be a 'prescribed instrument' within the meaning of the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Act 1978, which enables the Northern Territory Supreme Court at the suit of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission or the Northern Land Council to make orders for the enforcement of any requirement under a prescribed instrument so far as the requirement relates to any matter affecting the environment of the Alligator Rivers region. The amendment will also enable the Director to issue a lease or licence for the land on which the Jabiru township is to be developed, in advance of the plan of management. 
I would like to stress that, in proposing these amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, the Government is determined to protect the integrity of the Park. The Kakadu National Park is one of the world's great national parks and will continue to be so. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement on the program for the Senate during this week. 
Leave granted. 
-As we face the final stages of these sittings, I have had prepared a list of all the Bills the Government intends for passage before the winter adjournment. The list will be kept under review and it is now being circulated for the information of all honourable senators. The list contains a number of legislative proposals, covering a wide spectrum of Government activity. Consistent, day by day, progress will be required to complete it. If we do slip behind on one day, it will be necessary to make up the time on the next. Honourable senators, of course, have a range of different interests. The Government is conscious of this. By giving prior advice of the legislation coming forward, it is hoped that the debates will proceed in such a way that all will have an adequate opportunity to contribute according to their special interests. In this way too, the various Bills will receive an appropriate proportion of debating time. 
Honourable senators will be aware that the Government is faced with the necessity of concentration on its essentia] legislation at this stage of the sittings. I remind all senators, however, that extensive opportunities have been provided during the sittings for debate on matters raised by the Opposition or by backbench senators generally. For instance, over 22 hours have been devoted to urgency debates; 13 to first reading debates; almost 1 1 hours to debates on money bills; 15 hours to items of General Business and just over 1 1 hours to adjournment debates. This, as honourable senators will appreciate, is in sharp contrast to the situation in the New South Wales Parliament outlined by  Senator Puplick  last Thursday. 
-This is the part of the speech to which I think honourable senators should address themselves. As  Senator Georges  has pointed out on a number of occasions, this place works best when there is a measure of cooperation. The Government has endeavoured to co-operate with all senators and I now invite cooperation in the completion of the Government's essential legislative program. It is still not clear whether or not we will be able to finish this week, but I will report further to the Senate on this as soon as it is clear. In the meantime it would seem prudent to anticipate that we will have to sit on Friday next and possibly from Tuesday of next week. 
I  move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I  seek leave to have the second reading speeches incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow for the introduction from 1 July 1979 of charges to recoup part of the cost to the Commonwealth of inspecting meat for export. This is the first of a series of Bills covering partial recovery of costs involved in export inspection of certain agricultural commodities. Export inspection is designed to ensure that export products meet specific standards of quality, hygiene and presentation. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in the 1978-79 Budget Speech announced that the Government would review the question of charging for the export inspection of meat during 1 978-79 in the light of the economic situation of the cattle industry. Associated Budget statements indicated that the review would also encompass the question of cost recovery from other export industries subject to inspection. The outcome of these reviews was announced in the Treasurer's statement in the House of Representatives on 24 May 1979. 
The Government has decided that meat producers and grain exporters should bear approximately 50 per cent of the cost to the Commonwealth of inspection. The Government proposes further that fees aimed at a similar level of recovery should be imposed for the service provided by the Australian Wool Measurement Standards Authority. Recovery of part of the costs of inspection and animal health certification for live animal exports is also intended. The Government will move to introduce fees for these services when the necessary arrangements have been finalised. 
Turning now to the specifics of this Bill, honourable senators will see that it provides for recovery of meat inspection costs to be achieved through charges on livestock slaughterings at registered export establishments. The Bill provides for the owner of the livestock at the point of slaughter to be liable to pay the charge. Exemption from charge is provided in cases where carcases are condemned or rejected by an inspector. 
Provision is made for charge to be applied to the slaughtering of all the classes of livestock commonly slaughtered for meat production. Horses, donkeys and mules are also included because there have been instances of abattoirs being registered specifically to slaughter such animals for export. Provision is also made for charge to be applied to other classes of animals which may be prescribed. This provision may be needed in the event that it should become necessary to provide export inspection services for the slaughter of deer, kangaroos or other species. The Bill specifies maximum rates of charge which may be prescribed for various classes of livestock- for example, the maximum rate which may be prescribed for cattle exceeding 90 kilograms dressed weight is $2.40 per head. It is anticipated that initially the prescribed rates will be lower than these. 
To achieve the 50 per cent cost recovery objective it appears that the Governnent will need to propose the following rates to the GovernorGeneral for promulgation in regulations: 
Cattle, Buffaloes, Horses, $ 1 .80 per head. 
Bobby calves to 40 kg dressed weight, sheep, lambs, goats, 18c per head. 
Calves, 40 to 90 kg dressed weight, and pigs, 60c per head. 
On current estimates of slaughterings for 1979-80 charges at these rates are estimated to yield $ 16.25m in a full year. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979 
This Bill is related to the Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979 just introduced it is designed to provide for the collection of charges proposed in that Bill. It follows closely the provisions for the collection of levies in other livestock slaughter levy legislation. Specifically, provision is made for abattoir proprietors to pay charges due to the Commonwealth and to recover the amounts from the persons who owned the livestock at the time of slaughter. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979 
This Bill is associated with other Bills just introduced. The purpose of this Bill is to allow charges for the export inspection of the grains of wheat, oats, barley and sorghum. Charges are to apply to exporters of the products in question, the aim being to recover approximately half of total inspection costs of these products in 1979-80. 
The rates of charging proposed for 1979-80 exports will be specified in regulations along with specific arrangements for the collection of such charges. The Bill includes a provision limiting the rate of charge that can be prescribed to a maximum of 40c per tonne. Actual rates envisaged are well below this, it being proposed that rates of the following order for 1979-80 be suggested to the Governor-General for promulgation in regulations: 
Bulk grains, not loaded into shipping containers- 4.5c per tonne. 
Bagged grains, not loaded into shipping containers- 25.0c per tonne. 
Bulk or bagged grains, loaded into shipping containers- $5.00 per container. 
For the information of the Senate a charge of $5 per container is equivalent to a rate of around 27c to 29c per tonne. On current export estimates for 1979-80 charges at these rates are estimated to yield $656,000 in a full year. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979 
This Bill is associated with the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979 just introduced. It is designed to provide for the collection of charges proposed in that Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 
This Bill is associated with other Bills just introduced to allow charging for the inspection of meat and grain for export. Its purpose is to provide machinery to recover approximately half of the costs of the Australian Wool Measurement Standards Authority established within the Department of Primary Industry. 
The service for which fees are proposed is that provided by the Australian Wool Measurement Standards Authority in monitoring and registering wool sampling sites. The cost of providing that service at a particular sampling site reflects the number of samples drawn at the site. Fees would apply only to those sampling sites from which samples are drawn for testing by the Australian Wool Testing Authority, an instrumentality established under the Wool Industry Act 1972. 
The Bill provides that the Australian Wool Testing Authority would provide pre-sale test certificates only for samples drawn from sample sites registered and inspected by the Australian Wool Measurement Standards Authority. The Bill further provides for regulations covering matters relating to registration and inspection including appropriate fees. It is envisaged that an annual registration fee for 1 979-80 calculated on the basis of the order of 53c per lot sampled with a minimum annual fee of $100 in respect of any one sampling site will be proposed to the Governor-General for promulgation into regulations. On current estimates for 1979-80 charges at these rates are estimated to yield $ 1 67,500 in a full year. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) These questions have already been the subject of submissions to the National Communications Satellite Task Force and were considered in its Report. Further submissions have been made to the Working Group, which is examining them. I am informed that the Working Group is very concerned to identify employment implications that would bc closely related to a National Communications Satellite. No doubt, il will follow closely the more extensive enquiries that arc being carried out by the Tripartite Committee examining Labour Market Questions and the Committee of Inquiry on Technological Change in Australian Industry. 
The Working Group is yet to complete its report. Thus, the Government has made no decision as to whether the report or any information that is used will be made public. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In making submissions to the National Communications Satellite Task Force, a number of individuals and organisations offered the opinion that any domestic communications satellite system should be run by an entity that includes public shareholders. 
The Task Force, however, subsequently recommended that a satellite system should be owned and operated by a Government authority. I am informed that the Working Group has received no direct financial offers of participation in the ownership of a domestic satellite, although a number of groups have referred to the need for relevant areas in the commercial sector to have adequate representation on any Satellite Commission or other relevant body. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: lt is inappropriate to speak in terms of formal commitment for use of satellite capacity as the Government has as yet made no decision about whether or not to proceed with a domestic communications satellite system. However, the Task Force Report indicates that, depending on a number of factors, the Australian Broadcasting Commission could use a significant proportion of a satellite's capacity, and the ABC has reiterated this point in its submission to the current Working Group. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Working Group is examining submissions made to it by companies and bodies in the broadcasting industry, and it has had informal discussions with a number of industry representatives on the matter of the possible utilisation by them of a satellite. 
It is inappropriate to speak in terms of a formal commitment as the Government has as yet made no decision about whether or not to proceed with a domestic communications satellite system. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to (3) It is inappropriate to speak in terms of formal commitment as the Government has made no decision about whether or not to proceed with a domestic satellite system. However, several Governmental departments and authorities and other potential users have volunteered to the Working Group preliminary estimates of requirements for use of the satellite. As this information is of a semi-confidential nature, it would be appropriate if interested parties sought clearance to review submissions. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The following members of the Task Force travelled overseas between December 1977 and September 1978: 

 Mr H. White. C.B.E.  (Chairman) 
MrW. E. Beard 

 Mr P. R. Brett 

 Mr J. P. Coleman 

 Mr W. G. Gosewinckel 

 Dr B. L. Hennessy 

 Mr I. H. Maggs 
Brig. D. J. McMillen 

 Mr H. Taylor 
MrC. B. Wilson. 
In addition, these members were accompanied by  Mr R.  C. Johnson. Secretary to the Task Force,and  Mr D.  M. Kennedy, a member of the Secretary's staff. 
The following countries, companies, agencies and other institutions were visited by the Task Force members: 
Canada 
Bell Canada 
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) 
Canada Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) 
Canadian Television Network (CTV) 
Canadian Treasury Board 
Department of Communications 
Communications Research Centre (CRC) 
Department of National Health and Welfare 
Department of National Defence 
Telesat Canada 
Ministry of Transport 
Europe 
British Aerospace 
European Broadcasting Union (EBU) 
European Space Agency ( ESA ) 
Nordic Council of Ministers 
Thomson CSF ( France ) 
Japan 
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications 
Mitsubishi Electric Corporation 
National Space Development Agency ( NASDA ) 
Nippon Electric Company (NEC) 
Nippon Hose Kyokai (Japan Broadcasting Company) 
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation 
Tokyo Shibaura Corporation (Toshiba ) 
United States of America 
American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&amp;T) 
COMSAT General 
California Microwave Inc. 
Defense Communications Agency 
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) 
Ford Aerospace and Communications Corporation 
General Electric Company 
Harris Corporation 
Department of Health, Education and Welfare 
Hughes Aircraft Company 
ITTSpace Communications Inc. 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
National Association of Broadcasters 
National Broadcasting Company (NBC) 
National Telecommunications and Information Agency (formerly Office ofTelecommunications Policy) 
Public Broadcasting Service 
Public Service Satellite Consortium 
Radio Corporation of America ( RCA ) 
RCA Alascom 
RCA Americom 
RCA Astro Electronics Division 
Rockwell International 
Satellite Business Systems (SBS) 
Scientific Atlanta 
Development of Transportation 
Television Station WGR-TV 
Television Station WU-TV 
Veterans Administration 
) The total cost of overseas travel by the Task Force was $59,900. This cost was met entirely from the allocation of $250,000 by the Australian Government for the work of the Task Force. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that some organisations and individuals have, in submissions to the Working Group and in informal discussions with it, referred to various forms of television networking which they have interpreted as arising from the Task Force Report. In particular, independent and regional television stations have highlighted the economic and social base of the present system of television distribution and television ownership. 1 remind the honourable senator that in my statement to Parliament on 6 March 1979, I have already indicated the Government's concern not to make any decision which fails to recognise the importance of providing regional television stations with strong local identity, and that the Government will not bc a party to developments that would allow any one broadcasting interest to control commercial television in this country. I have no doubt that the Working Group will bc giving the matter very serious consideration. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In the remote parts of Australia, there are scattered pastoral holdings, very small mining communities and substantial Aboriginal populations to which it is impracticable to provide standard telephone services using current terrestrial technology. Developments in digital radio systems over the next few years could provide solutions in some cases and these techniques are understudy. 
Over the next 7 or 8 years, Telecom Australia plans to upgrade the existing 100,000 manual telephone lines and in the process it may prove practicable to extend telephone services to some remote areas. This will require comprehensive planning over the next few years. 
Currently Telecom is also investigating the practicability of extending telephone service to Aboriginal communities using various forms of terrestrial communications. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) At this stage, UHF channel allocations have only been considered for the high power transmitters in Sydney and Melbourne where the permanent ethnic television service will be introduced. They will provisionally occupy channel 28 in both cities. 
) The Government will not make any decisions on matters relating to the establishment of the permanent ethnic television service until it has received a report on the outcome of the present consultations process with ethnic communities and other interested parties. This report is expected to be finalised at the end of July 1 979. 
See (2) above. 
Sec (2) above. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In tabling the Report of the National Communications Satellite Task Force in Parliament on 27 September 1978, I announced the establishment of a Working Group of officials which was to report further to the Government on the matter. 1 refer the honourable senator to the tabling statement for an elaboration of the issues which the Government felt needed further consideration before it could take any decision on a domestic satellite system. 
(a) I am informed that the Working Group has already distributed lists of submissions to members of the press who have requested such information. Copies of submissions may be sighted by interested parties after clearance from the submitters. 
b ) The Working Group is yet to complete its report. Thus, the Government has made no decision about whether the report or any of its findings will be made publicly available. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) From 8 a.m. to 1 1 a.m. on each Sunday begining Sunday 29 April 1979, and extending to Saturday morning for two hours when the flow of overseas program material is sufficient to be able to maintain an extension. 
) There are no such plans at this stage. 
Approximately 20 percent. 
Interest in supplying program material was expressed by the following companies: 
Denis Weedon Productions Pty Ltd 
Taimac Video Corporation Pty Ltd 
Kew Productions 
MCA Australia Pty Ltd 
Floating Bridge 
Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies 
Bedford and Pearce Management 
Superstar International 
Satonyx Multimedia Productions 
Ethnic TV Production Pty Ltd 
Parvati Puppet Companie Booking Agency 
Samaurai Productions 
La Mascara International Theatre 
Reg Grundy Productions Pty Ltd 
Kingcraft Productions Pty Ltd 
Michael Robertson Film Productions Pty Ltd 
Ricway Films Pty Ltd 
Eduard Karen Studio 
Go Four Productions Pty Ltd 
Medical Media Centre 
Video Makers 
Vitascope Productions 
Moontan Writing and Production 
Myad 
Transmedia Pty Ltd 
Ethnic Advertising Services Pty Ltd 
R &amp; R Film Productions 
Gadonya Production Pty Ltd 
Film Wilson 
Open Channel Productions 
Burbank Films Pty Ltd 
Aries Public Relations 
Jerry Cornford &amp; Associates 
Monte Miller 
First Fleet Films 
Tasmanian Film Corporation 
Tom Cowan and Lesley Tucker 
Greek Connection 
Australian Community Television Pty Ltd 
Panorama Productions Pty Ltd 
Keith Smith Productions 
IC Films 
5 ) Australian Community Television Pty Ltd 
Panorama Productions Pty Ltd 
Kingcroft Productions Pty Ltd 
Denis Weedon and Associates 
Huveneers Pty Ltd 
George Dreyfus 
Burton Street Advertising 
Grecene TV Productions (S. Young) 
Robert Lloyd (Set Design) 
Parvati Puppet Companie Booking Agency 

 Mr John Martin, Media Consultant of the Special Broadcasting Service will be recalled to duty to contact a number of European television organisations while on leave in Europe. 

 Mr John Walker, of Australian Community Television Pty Ltd, was retained as an external consultant. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Office will be established by administrative action as an interim measure pending enabling legislation. It will begin operation under the interim arrangements as soon as a Director is appointed. The position of Director has been advertised and 40 applications received. These are now being considered. 
Detailed proposals on the functions and responsibilities of the Broadcasting Information Office are under consideration. 
-On 18 October 1978,  Senator Townley  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
Will the Minister agree to emphasise the need for a recording system that details all STD calls irrespective of the cost involved in installing that system? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to set up an independent accounts appeal tribunal until an accurate recording system is introduced? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The present position is that the Australian Telecommunications Commission proposes to offer to customers optional subscriber trunk dialling automatic message accounting as a choice on any suitable equipment. This would contain expenditure and would offer the service to customers over a wide area of the network. Telecom expects that this automatic message accounting system could be available in metropolitan areas by 1984, but it is likely to take longer to provide it in other areas because new equipment would need to be introduced. The matter of introducing AMA is under study by the Government but there are a number of matters on which it is necessary to seek further information from Telecom. Of course, the Government will bc looking in particular at the possibility of accelerating the introduction of automatic message accounting. 
Concerning the suggestion that an independent accounts appeal tribunal be set up to investigate complaints against overcharging by Telecom, since August 1977, subscribers, who arc not satisfied with the outcome of Telcom's investigation into account disputes, have had access to the services of (he Commonwealth Ombudsman. 
On 22 February 1979,  Senator McAuliffe  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister who represents the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following upon questions by Senators MacGibbon and Martin, and a speech by myself on the failure of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take up the offer made by commercial stations to allow the ABC access to replays of major sporting events to outback areas where the commercial stations are unable to provide a signal, the Minister at the time replied that the cost of the program was one of the reasons why the ABC has not taken up the offer. I ask the Minister: Is he aware that ATN7 in a letter to the Australian Rugby League Association, one of the major sports referred to, stated: 
We would be happy to make the program available free of charge to cover this pocket. Should the ABC not accept this arrangement an alternative could be that Channel 7 would provide cassettes of the games to the rugy league clubs in any of the towns involved. 
In the light of this information will the Minister inquire from the ABC as to what is the real reason for its attitude in this matter? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The issues relating to this matter arc not solely concerned with the costs to the ABC of sub-leasing program material. 
In the past, when sporting programs have been offered to the Commission by commercial stations, it has been a condition of the offer that the events arc only televised in areas not receiving the commercial presentation. To comply with this condition, it was necessary for the ABC to fragment what is essentially a single national network into at least two distinct networks. One network carried general programming to some or all capital cities while the other network provided the sporting program to mainly rural areas. 
This practice of network splitting resulted in a serious disruption to the ABC program schedules, as well as further complicating the already complex operation of routing programs through the Telecom network to destinations in different time zones and often on different time standards. 
On 27 February 1979,  Senator Melzer  asked me, as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
As we are all aware of the interest of the Government and especially of the Prime Minister in computer firms. I would like to ask a question on the following facts: IBM Australia Ltd, Melbourne and Honeywell Pty Ltd, Melbourne, are both firms dealing in computer systems. It is now a fact that IBM has an unlisted telephone number on each side of Honeywell. The telephone numbers in use are IBM 6993287: Honeywell 6993288; and IBM 6993289. Will the Minister agree that it would be wrong for an outside influence to be used to obtain such a listing which many other firms have sought but have been denied because it constituted unfair competition? Will the Minister investigate the matter? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia has advised that in 1 973 Honeywell Pty Ltd were allotted their present number 6993288. It is the advertised number of a large group of telephone lines. 
In 197S IBM Australia Ltd were provided with a similar large group facility with the advertised number 6993699 and included in this large group were the lines with numbers 6993287 and 6993289. Although in close proximity to Honeywell's main number, 6993287 and 6993289 are in fact associated technically with the large group facility of IBM. A feature of the large group facility is that whilst the advertised number is dialled the equipment automatically searches across a number of lines until it finds a free line. 
Lines suitable for inclusion in such groups are limited to a relatively small range of numbers from which selections are made to create groups of the required size, lt is inevitable that numbers allocated to one group will be adjacent to numbers allocated toothers. 
In January 1979 Honeywell Pty Ltd became aware of the situation and requested that the two IBM lines with numbers adjacent to their own, be changed. 
Although the probability of calls being misrouted by the automatic system of selection is very small, Telecom, with IBM's agreement, arranged for the number change in order to reassure Honeywell of the integrity of their telephone service. 
-On 29 March 1979,  Senator Colston  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications a question which refers to the economy rates for subscriber trunk dialling telephone calls which are made between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m. I point out that, when Queensland telephone subscribers wish to call telephone subscribers in southern States at times when daylight saving operates, the earliest a connection can be made at economy rates in the evening is 10 o'clock eastern summer time. This occurs because Queensland docs not adhere to a system of daylight saving. Will the Minister ask Telecom Australia to investigate whether it will be possible to vary appropriately the times for economy STD rates in Queensland when daylight saving time next operates in the southern States? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A limiting factor in the adjustment of times at which the varying rates can be applied is that the automatic time changeover equipment serves both interstate and intrastate calls. 
As there are many more intrastate calls made in comparison with interstate calls, the proposal to provide for the economy rate to apply lo all calls originated in Queensland between 8 p.m. and 7 a.m. eastern standard time during daylight saving periods would mean- the application of a low rate to calls originated in Queensland during a period of reasonably high traffic loading between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. eastern standard time with a resultant increase in traffic during that period; and the application of the maximum day rate on all calls made in Queensland between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. eastern standard time which isa period of low traffic volume. 
In all the circumstances Telecom considers the arrangements applied during the daylight saving period are the most satisfactory. 
On 3 April 1979,  Senator Primmer  asked me, as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question, without notice: 
Is it a fact that government imposed staff ceilings are causing delays of up to one year in the extension of telephone cables and installation of telephone services to businesses and private users in the Prime Minister's electorate of Wannon? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia has advised that within the Wannon Electorate a small area exists, in the Warrnambool District, where a delay of up to 9 to 10 months is occurring before telephone services can be provided. 
This has been caused by: 
Unexpected growth 
A high demand for telephone services 
Necessity to provide cable relief programmes. 
The cable relief projects are being implemented progressively. The work required to cater for current deferred applicants is expected to be completed by the end of October. 
The only other delays are isolated instances which occur in rural areas where connection of services is dependent upon the availability of mole plough equipment. 
Telecom has indicated that in the Hamilton District 90 per cent of new connections in February were completed within IS working days of orders being issued while in March the percentage rose to 94 percent. 
I will have to take that question on notice and seek a reply from the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
2 ) Sec answer to ( 1 ). 
The applications for renewal were made in accordance with procedures accepted over many years. The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (No. 2) 1978 now provides that licence renewal applications shall be made to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in accordance with forms supplied by the Tribunal. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
(i) Adelaide-22 August 1978: (ii) Sydney-24 August 1978. 
(i) Adelaide- Vice-Chairman  (Mr Oswin),  Member  (Mr Moremon),  Controller, Public Inquiry Branch  (Mr Dwyer) 
Sydney-  Mr Oswin, Mr Moremon, Mr Dwyer  and the Tribunal Secretary (  Mr Connolly) 
and (d) Yes. 
The Tribunal does not inform the Minister ofthe day to day activities of either individual members or the Tribunal staff. 
Discussions were of a general nature concerning the conduct of the inquiries, including procedures and submissions to the inquiries. 
The nature of the meetings did not require that any firm undertakings be given. These could only arise from a formal meeting of the Tribunal. 
These were meetings arranged by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations to which the Tribunal was invited to be represented. The Tribunal was not supplied with minutes and is not aware whether any were kept. 
It is not known whether FACTS made any public and announcements either prior to or subsequent to ( 10) their meetings. (1 i) and ( 12) No 
Yes. 
I also received a telegram yesterday in those terms from the Yarrabah Community Council. A member of the Press Gallery advised me this morning that a Press release in similar terms was issued by the Yarrabah Community Council either yesterday or today. I regret that the letter I sent to the Yarrabah Community Council on 31 May apparently had not reached the Council by 4 June when the telegrams were dispatched. The Yarrabah Community Council made a number of requests to me, including a request that I should have discussions with it before any decisions were taken with the Queensland Government on the matters which were raised with the Commonwealth Government as long ago as January. In my letter I indicated that I was seeking further talks with the Council and with Queensland Ministers and that I hoped we would be able to hold those talks with a view to taking to the next stage the discussions I am having with the Queensland Government at present. 
Reference was made in the telegram to the employment of a project officer, a matter that I had discussed with the Council. My letter dealt with this matter and expressed my sympathy for the idea that the Council should employ such an officer and suggested that it should be dealt with in the same discussion. In fairness to the Yarrabah Community Council, I must say that I can understand its impatience. It addressed a request to me on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in January. That request raises major questions of policy between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government. As a result it has been necessary to have extensive talks with the Queensland Government. I emphasise that one of the specific requests of the Yarrabah people was that we should have discussions with the Queensland Government. So, to that extent, we are carrying out the request. I am hopeful that the results of these discussions will be beneficial to all concerned- the Yarrabah people and the Commonwealth and Queensland governments. 
It is extremely presumptuous for the senator from Queensland to think that I would not have information of that sort readily available to me! But on this occasion he is correct and I will have to seek the information from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I will try to get it this week. 
1 have some information on the matters raised by the honourable senator. The Minister for Transport advises me that airworthiness directives issued by the United States department concerned do not make any differentiation on the basis raised by the honourable senator in his question. In other words, they do not differentiate between the two engine types used on the aircraft. The inspections were concerned with the pylon to wing structure rather than the engine attachment to the pylon. Information is not available on the detailed findings in the inspections but there is no reason to believe that engine type would make any significant difference. 
As to the second part of the question asked by the honourable senator, the Boeing 747 aircraft uses underslung engines but there are considerable differences between the mounting structure of that aircraft and that of the DC 1 0 aircraft. The airworthiness branch of the Department of Transport is closely monitoring further safety information being released as the investigation of the DC 10 Chicago crash proceeds. If any information becomes available the Department will ensure that, should any possibility arise that other types of aircraft are involved, any necessary action will be taken immediately. 
I find it hard to believe that the sorts of adjustments that are contemplated would make any difference to the tourist traffic in Tasmania. The attractions of that State are so considerable that they even appear to be drawing  Senator Wriedt  back into State politics. That is a very adequate reflection of the beauties of the State of Tasmania. My understanding of the position is that in Australia less emphasis has been given to the distance component in assessing fares than to the flag-fall component. As a result, the fares over long haul routes, which usually should be cheaper, have been proportionately higher than in comparable countries. Indeed, I understand that in future further emphasis will be given to the flag fall component as against the mileage component in order to redress what has been an historical imbalance. I will have to seek a definitive reply from the Minister for Transport but it is certainly my understanding that, as  Senator Wriedt  has said, the balance between the two factors, flag fall and distance, is in future to be changed in favour of the long haul routes, which to date have been disadvantaged. 
I have some information on the matter raised by the honourable senator but I do not think that it answers his question completely. I am advised that legionnaires disease is attributed to a bacterium- legionella pneumophilia- which is apparently acquired from environmental sources, such as dust or water. This infection was first recognised in the United States of America in an outbreak of severe respiratory infection in a group of legionnaires attending a conference in Philadelphia in July 1976. Since then, infections have been recognised in many countries and retrospective serological surveys have shown that it has been with us for a long time. The first Australian case was recorded in Sydney in 1978 and, since then, two other cases have been found. Limited serological studies have detected three other cases that have occurred in the past in Australia. It appears therefore that this is not related to the matters which the honourable senator has raised. However, it is a matter beyond my technical competence. I will refer the question to the Minister for Health for a more authoritative and definitive reply. 

 - Senator Mulvihill asks a series of questions, some of which are very specific and which I am not able to answer in detail. However, I have available a fair amount of general information in this area, some of which I can give him as it is relevant to the matter which he has raised. I am advised that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has, whenever possible in the past, taken action to assist the processing of applications for Australian citizenship, including those from sportsmen. Every assistance will be given in the future to people who qualify to apply for Australian citizenship. Two of the basic requirements to be met at present for the grant of Australian citizenship are that applicants have the status of resident of Australia and have resided here for three years. Provision has recently been made for the granting of resident status where applicants are outstanding sportsmen here as temporary residents whose continued stay in Australia will contribute to the advancement of their sport in this country and who generally meet the standards applicable to migrant entry. 
The Australian Citizenship Act allows the Minister discretion to exempt people from the normal 3-year residence requirement only if they are under 2 1 years of age, are married to or are the widow or widower of an Australian citizen, or were formerly Australians. People who were legally admitted to Australia on a temporary basis and who later became residents may count the entire period of their time spent in Australia towards the residence requirement for citizenship. Applications may be lodged by permanent residents after they have been in Australia for  V/i  years. The Department is not aware of any approach in recent times from the Australian Soccer Federation concerning Australian citizenship. I cannot say whether, at the earlier time mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill,  the particular approach that he mentioned was made. 
I can only say what I said a moment ago, and that is that the information I have is that the Department is not aware of any approach in recent times from the Australian Soccer Federation. That note may have been overtaken by events in the last few hours but that is comparatively recent information. I will certainly seek a response on the specific matters raised by the honourable senator and let him have a reply as soon as possible. 
I will certainly examine that matter with all possible speed. 
I certainly hope that I have not misled the Senate, too. I have a distinct tight feeling around the collar. But in any event I will very quickly obtain a reply for  Senator Robertson. 
1 am sure that the Government would be interested in any proposition that would improve employment possibilities, increase the service and show improvement in the current financial affairs of the Tasmanian railways. In that respect the question is very reasonable. My advice is that there is an offer to take over from the Australian National Railways the provision of railway services in Tasmania. It was received by the Government at the end of last month. It is currently being examined by the Department of Transport. At this stage the matter cannot be taken any further. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review. Honourable senators will recall that in October last year the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  presented parts 1 and 2 of the Review to the Parliament. Part 1 covered trunk route services and the twoairline policy and Part 2 covered regional and local commuter air services. Those parts have now been consolidated into Volume I and the appendices to the Review's report have been consolidated into Volume II. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Australian National Railways Act 1917,I present the annual reports of the Australian National Railways Commission for the years ended 30 June 1976 and 30 June 1977, together with a copy of a covering letter from the 

 Chairman of the Commission. The reports contain an explanation as to why their presentation was delayed. Essentially, that was because of problems associated with amalgamating the accounts of the former Commonwealth railways system and the two transferred State rail systems. A further delay resulted from publication difficulties, as explained in the Chairman's letter. 
Motion (by  Senator Rae)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That the reports of the Australian National Railways Commission for 1975-76 and 1976-77, together with a copy of a covering letter from the  Chairman  of the Commission, bc referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report as to the delay in the presentation. 
With considerable pleasure and for the information of honourable senators, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  on a reduction in certain categories of telephone call charges across Australia. 
I am grateful for the interjection from  Senator Bishop,  which refers to the certification of the aircraft by the highest authority, namely the United States civil authority. 
I am also grateful to be reminded by  Senator McAuliffe  that  Senator Bishop  is pushing his own barrow, rather than that of the Nomad, in the light of his earlier connection with that project. I will send the question to  Mr Macphee  for an answer. 
-The Minister for Administrative Services has responsibility for the British Phosphate Commission and the Minister for Home Affairs has responsibility for the general administration of the Territory to which the honourable senator referred. Therefore, the question that he raised is within the province of the Minister for Home Affairs and I will see that it is referred to that Minister for reply. 
I am not aware that the talks have broken down, which is suggested in the question by the honourable senator. I will ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  to respond to it. 
I will refer that matter to the Minister for Administrative Services for reply. 
I suggest that the honourable senator put that question on the Notice Paper. 
I suggest that the honourable senator put that question on the Notice Paper. 
I am touched by the kindness of the Opposition. I seek leave to incorporate the remaining three second reading speeches in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry for 1979-80 to 1981-82. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present an agreement concluded on 30 March 1979 in relation to the provisions of financial assistance to New South Wales for programs relating to the restoration, preservation and improvement of landscapes and buildings of special significance. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the National Women's Advisory Council entitled 'Migrant Women Speak'. The report sets out a series of recommendations based on the views of migrant women themselves. I hope that the report will promote a discussion of the needs of migrant women, and I know it will be a valuable resource for the Government concerning our implementation of the Galbally report and our efforts to assist migrant women. 
The Acting Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Horn Island is provided with a Government aerodrome which primarily serves Thursday Island. Authorised Landing Areas (ALA) to commuter standard are located on the inhabited islands of Sue, Yam, Saibi, Badu, Yorke and Murray ( under construction ). All of these ALAs have a helipad. 
Horn Island is owned by the Commonwealth Government and ownership of the ALAs is under the control of the Trustee of the aboriginal reserve, namely the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement. 
Yes. Horn Island aerodrome is maintained by Commonwealth staff and maintenance on the ALAs is undertaken by the Island Councils under sponsorship of the Trustee. 
No landing charges are levied al Horn Island aerodrome but the costs of that aerodrome are attributed in the determination of Air Navigation Charges. It is understood that no landing charges are levied at the other locations. 
All those not listed in ( 1 ). 
Yes, if permanently inhabited. Also some of the seasonally inhabited islands have helipads. 
in reply- I understand that  Senator Tate  was concerned to find out the present position with respect to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the priority of Crown debts. I am able to confirm that the position is as it was when he raised the matter last, namely, that it is before the Government and is under active consideration. As yet the Government has not made its final decision on the recommendations in the report. 
I do not have all the information required by the honourable senator in order to respond to that question. I think she would be aware, as would many other honourable senators, that there has been very great public interest in this question of a call to the local exchange. A great number of requests have been made for some relief in this area. Certainly honourable senators on this side of the House have made representations. I would be very surprised if honourable senators opposite have not received representations from people in either outer suburban areas or in remote areas where the nearest service centre has to be contacted through a trunk line call. I suspect that the fact that the announcement has been made before the event simply reflects the very great public interest in this area. My impression is that technical requirements with respect to metering and so on will need to be sorted out before the system can be instituted. I would think that that would account for the relatively long lead time in bringing the system into operation. I will check with  Mr Staley  and if either of those impressions is incorrect I will let the honourable senator have the correct reply. 
I am advised that progress is being made in the area to which the honourable senator has referred. There was a meeting of the Marine and Ports Council of 
Australia at Darwin on 25 May. At the meeting Ministers noted the progress that has been made by officials on proposals to introduce an Australian register of snipping to replace the present arrangements under which ships are registered under the Imperial Act. Further discussions and studies are continuing on a number of complex matters on which clarification is required. It is hoped that the Commonwealth will be in a position in the reasonably near future to introduce a Bill into the Parliament. I am not in a position to say precisely when that might be. 

 - Mr President, I rise to speak on the matter of urgency which was brought before the Senate by  Senator Walsh  earlier today. The Government has had its usual difficulty, when looking at this motion and listening to  Senator Walshparticularly  in listening to  Senator Walsh's  speech- in separating the general abuse from the substance of the motion. But I will endeavour to define the Commonwealth Government's attitude to the motion during the course of my speech. I have made some reference to abuse in  Senator Walsh's  speech. I would suggest to the Senate that reference to the Liberal Party in Western Australia as the Ku Klux Klan - 
In the Kimberleys it was referred to as the Ku Klux Klan. He used words such as conspiracy, sinister and malpractice. All these matters are not particularly informative, and would be about as useful as me coming in and saying that some part of the Labor Party in Western Australia, or perhaps the Trades and Labour Council, was the equivalent of the West Australian Soviet. 

 - Mr President, I assure you that it would be just as easy to indulge in abuse of the Australian Labor Party as it would be to engage in abuse of the party which I represent in this place. I simply suggest that that action adds very little to the matters which are before us under this motion of urgency. The other matter is, of course, that although  Senator Walsh  was careful on occasions to quote from the report of the Court of Disputed Returns and other documents, he did make general allegations under the privileges of this House. I do suggest that that is a practice which we ought to be looking at very carefully, not in the sense that you should be looking at it,  Mr President,  but that each of us, as senators, should be looking at it, bearing in mind the privilege that we have in making allegations without anyone having any recourse. 
The thought did cross my mind, as I was listening to  Senator Walsh,  that perhaps he was trying to entice us away from supporting the motion which he has put forward. It is difficult, in light of the speech which he made, to indicate any support for the proposition which that speech was supposedly supporting. But the Government is absolutely committed to the idea that it is of great importance to Aboriginal people that they should be able to exercise their vote. We see that as important in itself, and important to the Aboriginal people. I emphasise that it is part of the general view of the Government that not only Aboriginals but also other disadvantaged people in the community- disadvantaged in the sense that they are less able than others to take advantage of the electoral laws which exist to safeguard their rights to vote- should be assisted in regard to this matter. It is part of our general thrust to assist all of those disadvantaged groups. I underline the Government's view by saying a few words as to why we regard this matter as important. I think it would be generally true to say that the disadvantaged voter, that is the person who does have these difficulties, is also disadvantaged in other respects. In other words, the difficulty in exercising the vote is not likely to be the only difficulty that that person faces, whether it is a migrant who is not able to speak or read English, or whether it is an Aboriginal who is not able to speak or perhaps to read or write English. These people, being in greater need of assistance, have a particular interest in who forms the Government of the country. For that reason, it is important that they have some say in who should govern the country, or indeed their State. 
The second thing which I think is important is that if such people are voting, as they should be able to vote, then of course this is a fair guarantee that government will be more sensitive to their needs. I do not think there is anything more salutary to an elected politician than knowing that a substantial portion of his electorate is concerned about the policies which he is supporting. So there are good practical reasons why we should be encouraging Aboriginals, as well as other disadvantaged people, to be exercising their franchise. 
I think I can say it is important to establish the commonality as well as the differences in these areas, and that the general thrust of this would be supported by the Opposition which has made it clear in bringing forward this motion- indeed even in  Senator Walsh's  speech- that it is concerned about the electoral rights of Aboriginals. I am sure the Opposition would join me in expressing concern about the electoral rights of others. One gets into difficulties and differences between the Government and the Opposition when one gets down to precisely how the obligations of government ought to be met.  Senator Walsh  made a very direct plea- it is not part of the motion- by throwing out as a challenge the fact that the Commonwealth should be prepared to step in and override State electoral statutes on behalf of Aboriginal people. He put that forward and said that that was the course which ought to be followed by the Commonwealth Government. I make no final answer on that comment, but I would like to raise a number of matters which I think do indicate that careful consideration needs to be given to any proposal of that sort. The first is that notwithstanding the legal advice which has been given to us through  Senator Walsh,  I think there would be room certainly for some argument about the powers there. I do not argue that the power does not exist. I say that it is a matter which will almost certainly lead to legal disputation, and about which I think one could mount arguments either way. The other practical point is that if one were looking to special legislation of this sort, I query that one would single out Aboriginals only, because I believe that the disadvantages of Aboriginals are not peculiar. They are shared with other people, as I indicated earlier in my speech. The power under which it would be suggested that we would make such laws is the same power which enables us to make special laws for the people of any race. So one could argue, and raise a considerable argument, that Aboriginals should not be singled out as against other people who, in some areas, suffer from the burden of not being able to read or write English. 
-Yes, but I think that is one of the fundamental disadvantages. That, and of course lack of understanding of the electoral process, are matters with which I will be dealing at greater length later. There is another problem which I do not think seems to have been considered by the Opposition at all in putting forward this motion. The words of the motion are: 
That Aborigines should have the same opportunity to enrol and record valid votes in State elections as in Federal elections. 
I ask them to bear in mind that one can get situations where State electoral law can be more permissive in terms of helping such people to get votes than can Commonwealth legislation. 
-That is right. If one were to take a strict reading of the motion which was put forward- I do not intend to do that and I have indicated that the Government will support the resolution- it does, subject to the qualifications I am making in this speech, provide that even if we look at Western Australia which has been subjected to so much criticism here today, one will find in fact that there are areas where the Aboriginal voter is advantaged under the State legislation as against the Commonwealth legislation. The particular example to which I draw the Senate's attention is that the Commonwealth electoral legislation provides that an application for postal vote must be signed by the elector in his own handwriting. There is the starting point for getting an absent vote under our Electoral Act, with which I think, properly, we are pretty satisfied. The Commonwealth Electoral Act does not permit marksmen to sign postal vote applications. So that if an illiterate person or- perhaps to use a less offensive expression- an Aboriginal who cannot read or write English wished to get a postal vote for a Federal election, he would not be able to do so. Under the State electoral legislation he could.  Senator Robertson  may be a little puzzled. I think there is some difference in the Northern Territory as to whether one can get a vote for the House of Representatives or the Senate. But that is my understanding of the position for the rest of Australia. Looking at the States, legislation in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania is similar to the Commonwealth legislation. In other words, a person who cannot sign his name cannot apply for a postal vote. The legislation in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and the Northern Territory allows marksmen to apply for postal votes. The Kay report, which has been referred to in this debate, recommended that Western Australia's legislation be amended to require a marksman's thumbprint on a postal vote application. The legislation has been put before the Parliament of Western Australia but as yet has not been passed. It will not be passed until about August at the earliest. This proposed legislation does not incorporate this recommendation. In other words, the position remains the same, that one can apply for a postal vote without-- 
I made some inquiries and I understand that this motion cannot be amended. I would not wish the Opposition to think that I am making these comments in a technical manner to try to score legal points. I am trying to say to honourable senators that we pick up what we believe to be the spirit of the motion, with the vituperation removed, and say: 'Yes, we are very anxious to see that Aboriginals who have some disadvantage are able to vote'. I understand that to be the thrust of what the Opposition has put forward. If we were to oppose this motion on the grounds that I have outlined, I have no doubt that some honourable senators opposite would say: 'There you are. There is proof that the Commonwealth Government wishes to deprive Aboriginals of their voting rights'. 
I go on to mention a couple of other comparisons between State and Federal elections. The compulsory enrolment provisions of the Commonwealth legislation do not extend to Aboriginal Australians. That judgment has been made by the Australian Parliament. The same position applies in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. The South Australian legislation does not make enrolment compulsory for anyone, but in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland enrolment is compulsory for all persons who are eligible. So again there are differences between the State and Federal situations which involve the position of Aboriginal voters but which I do not believe are the sorts of differences and problems about which we need be deeply concerned. They are matters on which there is room for a difference of opinion and I do not see an overwhelming need for uniformity in such areas. The Commonwealth legislation provides only for voting in person, at a polling place or by post. It does not provide for mobile polling. Nor does the legislation in Victoria, Tasmania and the Northern Territory, whereas the legislation in New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia provides for some mobile polling. But short of the amendments which are about to be made to the Western Australian legislation there is no provision for mobile polling in remote areas. Again that is a substantial difference between legislation of the States and the Commonwealth, which difference I do not think is necessarily to the advantage of the Commonwealth. 
I think that is a relevant point to make in light of the form in which the Opposition has brought this matter forward. I think that it would pose some difficulties simply and automatically to pick up the sort of option which was urged on the Government by  Senator Walsh. 
The problem which really arises in this area, in my view, is less a problem of the technical requirements of electoral law than a problem of the voting difficulties- the conceptual difficulties, in part, the communication difficulties and so on- which are faced by the disadvantaged. I think that there is far more progress to be made in this area than in relation to a particular concern about the precise provisions in State and Commonwealth legislation. I would put very squarely before the Senate the suggestion that we have a great obligation to ensure that Aboriginal people, and other disadvantaged people, know what to do when election time comes and how to do it. This can be effected in part by how the polling is conducted and by education. I want to touch quite briefly on both those matters. 
I am of the view that in both those areas the Commonwealth is in a very strong position. I think that the work that has been done of late, although no doubt it is still not perfect, is very much to the credit of the Commonwealth and of the Australian Electoral Office, which has had the conduct of it. We have had discussions on that in the Senate previously. I have quoted previously in the Senate- and I would like to do so again- an extract from the magazine which is issued in Maningrida. I have not had a copy of it for a while, so it may have gone out of print.  Gabalgu Jarra  was produced by the Maningrida Council. Its edition following the elections in the Northern Territory contained an article which was headed: 'Good Job, Electoral Office '. I think that that article is quite instructive in terms of giving a lead as to the way polling could be conducted to help Aboriginal people. I quote just a few parts of it as follows: 
Before the elections some people were saying that Aboriginal people wouldn 't vote or that they shouldr 't vote because they didn't understand what was going on. The Election Office - 
I think that means the Electoral Office-  helped Aboriginal people by asking the people in charge of the voting places all over the NT to help people who couldn 't read or write to make their vote. As well as that they found people who could speak Aboriginal languages to help at the voting places. 
One of the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Kay was that people who speak Aboriginal languages should be used at polling booths. I quote further: 
They also printed stories about the voting business in many of the languages of the Northern Territory. At the Maningrida voting place there were two balanda: - 

 Senator Robertson can translate that no doubt as Europeans or non-Aboriginals-  who were working for the Electoral Office who could speak languages that everyone from the Maningrida area could understand. At Milingimbi the two men who were in charge of the voting place were both yolngu from that area. This meant that Aboriginal people who couldn 't read or writeespecially old people- were still able to have their vote. We say 'Well done, Election Office!'- it should have happened years ago- we hope that now it will always happen. 
The last comment in itself is instructive. Perhaps we are making progress in these fields. If progress is not uniform around Australia, that should lead us simply to increase our efforts. 
In this area of Aboriginal education, which I put forward as being a very substantial contribution and even more important than the precise form of electoral law, the Commonwealth has been active; and it is important to note that it has been active in co-operation with the States. A lot of information has been put before the Senate, including extracts from the judgment of  Mr Justice  Smith relating to the Kimberley election which gave rise to the Kimberley by-election. Some quite heartening things came out of that series of events. One of them was that after the election which was challenged, the Commonwealth and the State in co-operation mounted an electoral education campaign in the Kimberley area. It was a joint Commonwealth-State effort and on all reports that I have been able to obtain it eased substantially the conduct of the voting in the subsequent by-election. 
It is coincidental and perhaps a touch ironic that on the day that this motion has been moved one finds on page 3 of the  Canberra Times  a report that the Australian Electoral Office only yesterday dispatched two teams, one to South Australia and one to Western Australia, as part of the arrangements which have been made between the Electoral Office and the State departments in South Australia and Western Australia to commence an electoral educational campaign, for which we budgeted $100,000 in last year's Budget. This is the sort of thing which represents, I think, the commitment which we have to the objectives which I believe are shared by both sides of the chamber, namely, that Aboriginal people should exercise properly their right to vote. On 15 November last year when I was the Minister for Administrative Services and briefly had the privilege of being responsible for the Electoral Office, I issued a statement in some detail about this program. I simply remind honourable senators of it. One finds in that statement, which is recorded in  Hansard,  that not only are we concerned about and mounting these programs with respect to Aborigines but also that we are mounting quite substantial campaigns to ensure that other groups in the community, in particular ethnic groups, get the necessary information which they require to exercise properly their right to vote. I had intended to quote quite a deal of this statement, but I simply will remind honourable senators that it is in  Hansard  for them to see if they wish. 
Incidentally, our experience in the Northern Territory is that electoral education does appear to have successful results. My attention has been drawn to the fact that available statistics show that there has been a reduction in the proportion of informal voting since the Australian Electoral Office has been conducting those programs. I quote from an answer given by the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  to a question on notice asked by  Mr Wallis,  which is recorded in the House of Representatives Hansard of 1 May 1979. The answer points out that various activities were carried out by the Electoral Office, both with respect to the conduct of elections and with respect to education. The answer includes the following: 
The success of activities such as these is difficult to measure since many factors may influence the voting behaviour of individuals. In the case of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly election the Australian Electoral Office believes that it is significant that there was a reduction in the informal vote from 5.08 percent to the total vote in 1974 to 3.18 per cent of the total vote in 1 977. 
Again, I think that that indicates that one can get over some of the sorts of difficulties which gave rise to the Kimberley by-election by having a better educated, better equipped and better prepared electorate. 
Which report is that, Senator? 
I was quoting from an answer to a question. 
It relates to Aborigines in particular. I stress that the key factor in this issue is that the programs which are being mounted are programs being conducted by the governments in co-operation. The State departments are involved and a single program is being conducted at Commonwealth cost and under the aegis of both governments. I believe that that is a very promising development and something which will take us away from the difficulties of the past. I have the Western Australian legislation under study. It came into my hands only recently. I think that it was brought into the Parliament within the last couple of weeks. It is under study in my Department. As honourable senators would expect, I have already received Aboriginal views on the report of  Mr Justice  Kay. I have no doubt that I will receive further views on the legislation from Aborigines. I will give that consideration and I certainly will consider the particular matters raised by  Senator Walsh  in his comments as areas about which the Opposition is concerned. 
The report of  Mr Justice  Kay, to which I would like to refer briefly, is something I think many honourable senators might take the trouble to examine. I say that because I think it is very easy to say: 'All right, I am going to read the report of the Court of Disputed Returns on the Kimberley election. I am going to see all this in conspiratorial terms and I am not going to worry about the fact that there are real practical difficulties which have to be faced '. I believe that  Mr Justice  Kay's report repays reading in that it draws attention to the fact that there are simple, practical difficulties which have to be faced and which do permit the possibility of manipulation. Whatever one wants to argue about the reality of manipulation in a particular circumstance in a particular election, the fact is that the voting of people who are not able to read and write is open to manipulation. Those people must rely on other people; therefore, those other people are in a position to take advantage of them. 
No. I am not making allegations about anyone. All I am saying is that what  Mr Justice  Kay's report brings out very well is the fact that, in various ways, it is possible to manipulate the system. Under various headings in the report, for example, with respect to the enrolment of voters,  Mr Justice  Kay made out his case as to why he believed it was necessary for some form of authorised witness to witness an application or a claim for a right to vote. After all,  Mr Justice  Kay pointed out in his report, that under the law as it stands at present a person who cannot read or write can be a witness to an electoral claim, not knowing what is in the card and possibly having no knowledge of the Electoral Act. We do have a rather ludicrous situation whereby a witness may have no idea of what it is that he is witnessing. 
I am simply saying that  Mr Justice  Kay pointed out that that presented an opportunity for manipulation. It seems to me that he is correct in saying that it does present an opportunity for manipulation. Clearly also, where one is dealing with a situation in which a person who is making a claim cannot read or write, it is open for somebody else to misrepresent to that person what is on the card that he is signing. There is room for debate as to the sort of people who ought to be singled out to witness those claims. That is a matter which I think one could consider at great length and debate at great length. But the principle of requiring a witness whom one can be satisfied is able properly to witness what is happening seems to me to be quite sound. 
I refer very quickly to page 31 of  Mr Justice  Kay's report for his comments on postal votes, which again 1 think are useful in pointing out the differences between the States and the difficulties of ensuring, when a marksman is involved, that one is getting a vote from the person who is claimed to have his name on the electoral roll. At page 33 of the report,  Mr Justice  Kay made a statement of principle which I think we could all consider. He said: 
. there are really no ways of effectively controlling all the abuses and manipulations which occur in the sphere of postal voting. 
I break off there to say that perhaps that is the answer to  Senator Walsh's  earlier interjection. The report continued: 
However, we should endeavour to strike a balance between the right of the individual to have access to casting a vote and at the same time ensuring that Aboriginals are not being induced to enrol under the Act, that no illiterate person is induced to vote in a particular way and that no postal vote is allowed unless it can be established that the mark on the application and declaration is the mark of the elector. 
I would say that most honourable senators in this chamber would have been involved in elections for a long time. They would know that there is room for abuse. Each honourable senator, on either side of the House, would admit that there have been occasions on which he has suspected people, perhaps from the other side of politics, of abusing the system in some way. I believe that we all ought to admit a common interest in ensuring that the system, whilst meeting the needs of Aboriginals, also is as foolproof as possible. 
The last point I want to make relates to the very vexed issue of the presentation of the howtovote card. Here again, there is a real dilemma when a person comes in to a polling booth and says that he cannot read or write and then presents a piece of paper which someone else has given to him and says: 'But that is how I wish to vote'. It raises an interesting question, does it not? How does one determine whether what is written on that bit of paper really does represent the intention of that person? In the various suggestions which have been put forward,  Mr Justice  Smith, for whom I have the highest regard, and  Mr Justice  Kay, for whom I have the highest regard also, have each put forward different views on how one can get over that problem. I simply ask members of the Senate to consider the fact that two men with no axe to grind, both men of considerable standing, have come to quite different conclusions on what is considered appropriate action to take. 
The matters which have been brought before the Senate are matters of importance. The way in which we treat minority groups and people who are disadvantaged is, to a large extent, a measure of the sort of people we are. From that point of view, I am pleased that we have had an opportunity to debate this matter. Because of the difficulties of time, a debate on the Government's view cannot be prolonged, but I hope that in the coming months honourable senators will bring to my attention any matters which they believe are relevant. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
in reply- I am grateful for the unanimous support that has been given this Bill by Government and Opposition senators. Also, I have listened with great interest to the speeches of honourable senators which, as is customary with such Bills, have been wider ranging and not really directed to the provision of a guarantee for the raising of funds. They have been directed to matters of more general interest relating to the operation of Qantas and, indeed, our domestic airlines as well. I do not propose to delay the Senate in responding. 
First, I would refer  Senator Gietzelt  to the availability of the annual report of Qantas which, notwithstanding some criticism from  Senator Rae,  does contain much of the information that I think the honourable senator was seeking. The last report of the company was tabled in the Senate during the 1978 Budget session. The financial year of Qantas ends in March so I expect that a further annual report, duly audited by the Auditor-General, will be tabled during this year's Budget session. That will bring  Senator Gietzelt  up to date in regard to some of the figures with which he was concerned. 
-To March 1978. Also,  Senator Gietzelt  was concerned that a statutory corporation should be spending taxpayers' money. The situation was more accurately described later by  Senator Rae  as one of a statutory corporation using property which was essentially owned by the taxpayer. In fact, this Bill does not- unless Qantas were to have so much financial difficulty that the Government would be called upon to meet the guarantee- incur any liability at all. It merely authorises the Government to guarantee borrowings by Qantas for the purchase of the two aircraft in question. 

 Senator Collard and  Senator Sibraa  raised matters that no doubt will be of great interest to Qantas. They complimented the airline on its operation and also made suggestions that will no doubt be of interest to its management. I understood  Senator Sibraa  to say that he understood that a traveller from the United States to Sydney could enjoy a cheap international fare but then, if he wanted to go on to Perth, would have to pay the domestic economy fare.  Senator Sibraa  was overlooking the recently announced See Australia fares, which extend a 30 per cent discount to foreign travellers who wish to move around Australia. The discount is designed to encourage the flow of tourists throughout the continent. 
As to the matters that were raised by  Senator Rae,  by the end of the debate I was a little confused, because his concern about the property investments of Qantas was precisely the reverse of  Senator O  'Byrne's considerable satisfaction with respect to that aspect of Qantas 's activity. However, I will ensure that the remarks of both honourable senators are brought to the attention of both Qantas and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon). Senator Rae  sought a response from the Government, but made it clear that he understood I would need to seek a reply from the Minister himself, and that is what I propose to do. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speeches incorporated in  Hansard. (Quorum formed). 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

Bounty (Injection-Moulding Equipment) Bill 1979 
The purpose of the Bill now before the Senate is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance by way of a bounty to Australian manufacturers of injection moulding machines, used in the production of artificial plastic goods, and to Australian manufacturers of parts- excluding dies- for these machines if the parts are designed solely or principally for use in the manufacture or repair of the machines. This decision has been made following receipt of advice and recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission- contained in Report No. 191 of 12 December 1978 on 'Miscellaneous 
Industrial Machinery'- that the existing tariff assistance to this industry of 55 per cent ad valorem be reduced to 15 per cent ad valorem and transitional assistance to eligible Australian manufaturers be accorded by way of a scheme providing for the payment of a bounty scaling down over five years from the date upon which the change to the tariff assistance became effective. 
On 22 May 1979 I introduced into this House the necessary tariff proposals to give effect, from 23 May 1979, to the reduction in the tariff assistance to the industry. Bounty will be payable from that date at the rate of 45 per cent of the value added by the Australian manufacturers and this rate will reduce by ten percentage points per annum during the five year period to which the Act applies. In deciding to reduce the tariff assitance to this industry the Government took into account the comments made by the Industries Assistance Commission that it could not identify benefits to the community commensurate with such high levels of assistance as provided by a tariff of 55 per cent ad valorem. It is considered by the Government that the reduction in the tariff assistance will lower the cost structure of the plastic products industries- the principal users of the machines- and therefore increase their competitiveness in world markets. In addition this action should eventually give rise to increased employment opportunities in this Australian industry. 
On the other hand the decision to accord the transitional bounty assistance is designed to satisfy two requirements: First, that each process in the production of injection-moulding machines receives the same rate of assistance in order to achieve balanced resource allocation within the industry; and second, that the period of the phasing down of the bounty is sufficient to allow the industry to restructure so as to become competitive at a more moderate level of assistance. This is particularly important because of rapidly changing technology in injection moulding machinery and the time required to restructure production methods in this industry. During the period of the phasing of the bounty there will be regular and thorough monitoring so that the Government is kept informed of the industry's ability to adjust to the new assistance arrangements. Officers of the department of industry and commerce will establish a regular reporting system with industry representatives. 
The proposed bounty scheme differs from the Commission's recommendations in one respect. Bounty will not be paid on equipment sold for export. The Government has decided not to adopt this recommendation because any exports upon which bounty is paid could be subject to taxes, in the form of countervailing duties, in certain important export markets. The imposition of these taxes would of course negate the competitive advantage derived from any bounty that is paid. However, during the period of adjustment of this industry over the next five years, it is expected that local manufacturers will become more competitive and thus be in a more advantageous position to develop their export markets. The cost of this scheme in the first year of its operation is estimated to be $ 1.5m and information presently available to the Government indicates that the total cost for the five year duration of the scheme will be approximately $4.2 m. 
Finally, I would add that the Industries Assistance Commission report, which I referred to earlier, has not yet been released. It will be made available when an announcement has been made by the Government on the other products covered by that report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1979 
The purpose of the Bill now before the Senate is to give effect to the Government's decision to continue assistance to the manufacture of books in Australia for a further period of seven years from 1 January 1980. The present level of assistance- one-third of the cost of productionwas previously extended to 31 December 1979 following an interim reommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission. The Bill changes the rate of bounty after 1 January 1983, introduces certain changes in the eligibility criteria and contains certain other amendments designed to obviate administrative difficulties and correct certain anomalies currently inherent in the principal Act. This is consistent with the Government's desire to provide community access to information at the lowest possible cost. Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its Report No. 1 78 of 3 1 July 1978 entitled 'Products of the Printing Industry', in respect of printed books, the Government accepted, in principle, the Commission 's recommendation that the existing bounty should be continued. However the Government decided that the reductions in bounty recommended by the IAC should be phased in more gradually. 
In its report the IAC recommended that the bounty should be reduced to 25 per cent of the cost of production as from 1 January 1982. The Commission stated that having examined the background to the introduction of the bounty, and its history and effects, it had concluded that the purpose of the bounty was, and should remain to assist local book manufacturers to obtain work, which, in the absence of the assistance, could be lost to overseas competitors. The Government accepts the Commission's conclusions. However it considered that the rationalisation in the industry, which is expected to occur as a result of the reduction in the bounty, would be less disruptive under the proposals adopted, which allow for a longer period of phasing to reach the IAC recommended rate. 
Under the Government's announced proposals the rate of one third of the cost of production will continue for books produced from 1 January 1980 to 31 December 1982, and will then be reduced to 30 per cent for books produced in the period 1 January 1983 to 31 December 1983. For books produced in the period 1 January 1984 to 31 December 1986, the rate of bounty will be 25 per cent of the cost of production. For the same reasons the Government has decided that the IAC's recommendations in relation to paper and binding materials provided free of charge for the production of a book will be phased down over a similar period. Bounty is to be payable at the rate of 25 per cent of the price paid or payable by the publisher for those materials in relation to books produced between 1 January 1980 and 31 December 1982. This rate will be reduced to 23 per cent for books produced between 1 January 1983 and 31 December 1983, and further reduced to 20 per cent for books produced between 1 January 1984 and 3 1 December 1986. 
Because the purpose of the book bounty is to assist local printers against import competition, bounty is generally available for books which, in the absence of bounty, would otherwise have been printed overseas. On this basis, the Bill makes certain changes to the criteria for bounty eligibility. For example, books such as workshop and service manuals, statistical publications and books containing advertisements if of the type which, on importation, would be admitted duty free, will become eligible for bounty. On the other hand, publications produced by photocopying commercial or industrial specifications, tender documents, et cetera, will no longer be eligible. The new criteria will also require books to be produced in a minimum run of 1,000 copies and, unless case bound, be for use in the form in which they were published. The provisions designed to obviate administrative difficulties which I mentioned earlier include, for example, in clause 1 1 an amendment which provides that bounty will be no longer payable unless a person keeps accounts, books, documents and records showing in particular details of production to the satisfaction of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
It is considered by the Government that the revised rates of bounty will maintain the level of activity and employment in this industry in the short term and, at the same time, provide an opportunity for the industry to restructure so as to become competitive at a more moderate level of assistance. The introduction of the revised eligibility criteria as set out in section 4 of the Bill is designed to assist those manufacturers who have become increasingly susceptible to import competition so that they may compete more effectively in the Australian market. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Button)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speeches incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

Customs Validation Bill (1979) 
This Bill provides for the validation until 3 1 December 1979 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 16 to 19 introduced into the Parliament at various times since 3 May 1979 and not covered by Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (1979) introduced into the Parliament on 22 May 1 979. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collections of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariffproposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. 
The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, anticipated for the Budget sittings, to enact the changes contained in the Proposals. The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to decisions of the Government on the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: 
Nuts, Bolts and Screws- Proposals No. 1 6; 
Australian Citrus Industry- Proposals No. 
17; 
Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery (relative to Injection Moulding Machines)Proposals No. 1 8; 
Acetyl Products; OXO Alcohols, Butyl Acetates, et cetera; Vices- Proposals No. 1 9. 
I commend the Bill. 
Excise Tariff Amendment Bill  (No.  2) 1979 
The purpose of this Bill is to enact the excise tariff alteration introduced into Parliament on 2 May 1979 by Excise Tariff Proposals No. 4. These proposals increase the excise duty on naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas- LPGfrom $ 13 per kilolitre to $ 14 per kilolitre following a domestic price rise of $27 per tonne by local producers effective 30 April 1979. 
When announcing the Government's policy to offset additional profits accruing to producers of naturally occurring LPG in November 1978, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  indicated that the domestic price would  be  kept under review and that the excise duty would be increased where necessary. The excise duty increase of $1 per kilolitre being enacted in this Bill equates to the windfall profit that would otherwise be gained by producers from the $27 per tonne price increase. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Button)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Australian Federal Police Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, announced on 13 December 1978, to create the Australian Federal Police which will incorporate the existing Australian Capital Territory and Commonwealth Police forces. The creation of the Australian Federal Police was the central recommendation contained in the 'Report to the Minister for Administrative Services on the Organisation of Police Resources in the Commonwealth Area and Other Related Matters', by  Sir Robert  Mark. This report was presented to the Parliament by the Prime Minister on 13 April 1978. The Government, in implementing this recommendation by proposing to the Parliament the creation of the new single Federal Police, was concerned to: 
overcome the problems that are associated with distinctions boundaries jurisdictional boundaries for the functions of police organisations not only throughout Australia, but also in the Australian Capital Territory; 
provide a firm basis for more effective cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States in the law enforcement area; and 
more effectively and economically coordinate police resources in the Commonwealth area. 
The importance of overcoming these problems is that terrorist and criminal activities can profit from them. The action of creating the Australian Federal Police is aimed at overcoming such problems in the Australian Capital Territory and providing a firm basis for co-operation with State police forces thus enabling the police to cope more effectively with the increasing complexity of terrorist acts of violence as well as international and national white collar crimes and other crimes against the Commonwealth. The Bill, in providing that the provisions relating to the Commissioner and  deputy  commissioners and the regulations are to come into operation upon the royal assent, identifies a creation date for the commencement of the Australian Federal Police. As announced on Tuesday, 8 May, the Government has decided that  Sir Colin  Woods, K.C.V.O., C.B.E., at present  Her  Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary for England and Wales should be designated the first Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police. The Bill provides for the remainder of the Act to come into operation on a date to be proclaimed. This will necessarily follow the making of the regulations as well as the Commissioner's general orders and instructions. The date for proclamation will identify an incorporation date for the appointment of all members of both present forces into the new Australian Federal Police. Between those dates the provisions of the Bill will enable the Commissioner to make arrangements for the appointment to the Australian Federal Police of all present members of both present forces. At the incorporation date the legislation for the present forces will be repealed. 
The legislation meets the assurances that have been given by Ministers that jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members of both present forces will not be at risk. Provisions of the Bill expressly provide for the application of existing terms and conditions to individual member of the two present forces being incorporated into the Australian Federal Police, until a new agreement or determination is made after the incorporation date. As with any organisation, new terms and conditions will evolve with the process of negotiation and arbitration before a Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal, following the incorporation date. The Bill constitutes the new single Federal Police as being of one membership, the members of which are to serve in either of two components- one on general police functions and the other on police protective service functions. The broad policies incorporated in the Bill include the principles necessary for a first class police organisation. The functions, organisation and responsibilities of the police are made clear in the Bill and it will be operationally independent yet administratively accountable as recommended by  Sir Robert  Mark. The Bill does not seek new or extended powers for the police. 
In developing the major proposal for the provision of two components, the Government was cognisant of the special requirements of the Commonwealth in the fields of protective security and the need to retain a relationship of this form of law enforcement with the other general policing functions within the Commonwealth area. In introducing this concept, however, the Government has been concerned to ensure the opportunity, and for the present members of the existing forces, a preferential opportunity, for transfer and general mobility, subject to the usual principles of competence and qualifications, between the two components. Training opportunities are to be provided to enable members to achieve the competence and qualifications that will be needed for promotion and transfer between components. The allocation of the detailed functions and personnel to the components is provided for the Commissioner to determine. 
The broad functions of the Federal Police are prescribed in the Bill. In the main they provide for the functions associated with the policing of the Australian Capital Territory, the investigation of offences against the Commonwealth and the protection and safeguarding of the Commonwealth 's interests. These are consistent with the proposals of  Sir Robert  Mark. The prescribed functions also, for the first time in the Commonwealth's history, make provision for the recognition of the traditional State police role, and places on the Commissioner of the Federal Police the responsibility to make arrangements with the State Police Commissioners for the investigation of offences against State-made laws in relation to Commonwealth places. This action will therefore for the first time require arrangements for overcoming the problems associated with the jurisdictional boundaries between the Federal Police and State police forces. This is designed to ensure the traditional role of the State police forces is not interfered with and will enhance the opportunity for co-operative arrangements. 
An important policy incorporated in the Bill is the arrangements for the Government's control and management of the Australian Federal 
Police. This is consistent with the philosophy that the Force should be operationally independent yet administratively accountable. Provision is made for the Commissioner to be responsible for the general administration and control of the operations of the Australian Federal Police. The responsibilities of the Minister and the Secretary, who, in some limited matters, also advises the Minister, are clearly spelt out. They refer to the giving of written directions by the Minister, after seeking both the advice of the Commissioner and the Secretary, on the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the Federal Police, and in making of arrangements for the development and use of national common services. The Commissioner is to report to the Minister whenever requested to do so by the Minister. 
The Bill also recognises the uniqueness of the police in our society and its members dual accountability to the courts and the public, as well as administratively to the Government and in the case of the Australian Capital Territory provides that a Police Liaison Advisory Council is to be established to advise the Minister upon community policing matters in the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill provides for the creation of a separate Police Arbitral Tribunal. The Tribunal will, it is proposed, be constituted by a Deputy President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and provides for, with the leave of the Tribunal, appeal to the Full Bench of the Commission. 
The Government believes that the establishment of a single Federal Police as proposed by this Bill will provide a basis for many of the current problems experienced between law enforcement authorities within Australia to be overcome or reduced, and thus achieve more effective cooperation and co-ordination of resources in the Commonwealth area. The increasing complexity and occurrence of crimes of violence, terrorism and white collar crimes, requires the closest cooperation between all Australian police forces. The Commonwealth's responsibility in this area finds a firm basis within this Bill and will be pursued in co-operation with the States, through the Commonwealth-State Ministerial Police Advisory Council which, as recommended by  Sir Robert  Mark, is proposed to be established by arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States, after the creation of the Australian Federal Police. 
Two other matters relating to the police that have been under consideration by the Government following reports thereon by the Law Reform Commission deal with legislation relating to complaints against the police and with legislation to regulate police procedures in criminal investigation. The Government anticipates being able to introduce legislation upon complaints procedure later in the year. The Government is currently reviewing the draft legislation tabled in the Parliament in 1977 relating to criminal investigation procedures. This will necessarily take some time to complete including giving the Commissioner of the new Australian Federal Police the opportunity to comment on proposals upon it. I have arranged for an explanatory memorandum and notes on clauses to be distributed to all honourable Senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Button)  adjourned. 
The provision which has been suggested by the Opposition would allow the right of appeal to the initiation of the process, and that is not accepted by the Government. An individual who is subjected to that would still have the other rights of appeal which are given to him under the legislation. That includes the right of appeal against actual redeployment and against the identification or any retirement action. So appeal procedures would apply to him, but not against the reference under clause 8 (3) (c). 
Amendment negatived. 

 - Mr President, before proceeding with the second reading debate on this Bill 1 suggest that with the concurrence of honourable senators it would suit the convenience of the Senate to hold a cognate debate on this Bill and the National Health Amendment Bill 1979. 
I acknowledge the fact that  Senator Cavanagh  gave up some of the two hours for quite work that he normally has between 6 and 8 p.m. while the rest of us are eating and drinking to explain to me and the officers of the Department of Health the problem that he has raised. I undertake to obtain some response from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on the point he has raised in relation to the Bill.  Senator Cavanagh  raised a matter relating to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, which is outside the confines of this debate. I have to admit, and I am prepared to admit it in public, that the matter which  Senator Cavanagh  has raised is news to me. I will certainly examine it during the recess and either discuss it with the honourable senator or write to him about it. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-On 24 May 1979  (Hansard,  pages 2086-7),  Senator Walters  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question without notice regarding the resolutions recommended by the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in February this year and their implications for the Tasmanian poppy industry. The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
The United Nations Commission's resolutions favour the traditional supply countries to the exclusion of others. As the United States of America does not consider Australia to be a traditional supplier, this has effectively cut off a potential market for Australia and has presented very serious problems for producers of concentrate of poppy straw and other opium alkaloids in this country. 
As a result of representations by the Australian Government and other concerned parties, the United States Government authorities are currently reviewing their policy in relation to the importation of opium alkaloids. The Australian Government is making all efforts through diplomatic channels at the highest possible level to influence the United States authorities to allow Australia reasonable access to the United States market. 
I understand that the review process may include a series of hearings by the Drug Enforcement Agency before a decision is reached in the near future. The United States authorities have assured all parties that they will have ample opportunity to make their views known and that these will be taken into account in reaching a final determination. 
The Government is taking all possible steps to ensure that the interests of the poppy growers and the associated opiate manufacturing industry in Australia are protected. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Twice (including private holiday to New Zealand ). 
Yes. 
I am not familiar with the hostel, or whatever the establishment is, mentioned by the honourable senator, or of the incident to which he has referred.  Mr Winmarti  is one of the Ayers Rock claimants whom I met, in fact, in Melbourne some weeks ago. I am concerned not only on that account but also with the report which has been brought forward. I realise that in the Territory various places impose some dress standards; for example, in the hotel I was staying at a week ago people were required to wear shoes, socks and so on in certain areas. But what I understand the honourable senator was saying is that different standards were required of Aboriginals from those required of nonAboriginals. Of course, that would be quite offensive. It is a matter which I will have investigated to see whether there is substance in the complaint which has been made and, if so, what action can be taken to remedy the situation. 
I am aware of the interest and concern in the community about precisely what effect the Channel 9 arrangements with the Australian Cricket Board will have on the overall coverage of cricket in Australia. Therefore, the short answer to the honourable senator's question is yes, and that I will let him know the response of the Minister to his suggestion. I think it will be generally agreed in the Senate and in the community that there is a widespread wish for the sort of sporting coverage that, in the past, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been able to provide. 
I have had recent experience of the facilities that have been mentioned by  Senator Kilgariff  and I would have to agree that they fall a long way short of the ideal. As the honourable senator knows, the problem is complicated by the close proximity of the RAAF facilities to the civilian facilities on what is a single airport. At the moment discussions are under way between the Department of Defence and the Department of Transport to determine the best way in which civilian facilities can be upgraded without interfering with the plans of the Department of Defence for the further development of the airport. Pending those discussions being held, it is a little hard to make interim arrangements, but I will certainly pass on to the Minister for Transport the sense of urgency that is implied in  Senator Kilgariff's  question. I will try to ensure that the discussions are expedited so that some improvements can be made. 
Honourable senators would be aware that  Senator Townley  has a deal of expertise in this area- in fact, a degree of expertise that I would not claim- but I do believe that he may have stood the facts on their head in the question he asked. I think the truth of the matter is that passengers who have been travelling on the longer air routes in Australia have been subsidising those who have been flying on the shorter routes. This matter is one on which I should get a more definitive reply because honourable senators may suspect that the fact that I come from Western Australia influences my view on this matter. I would like to make it very clear that it does. My constituents in Western Australia feel justifiably aggrieved at the system which has applied to date. They are concerned that a proper weighting should be given to distance as against flag fall. I am pleased to say that the Government has also been concerned to find the appropriate balance. 
My understanding was put before the Senate in answer to a question from  Senator Wriedt,  I think earlier this week or perhaps last week. That answer was fundamentally correct. There has been an imbalance in favour of the short haul routes. Not as much weight has been given to the fact that longer distance flights cost less per kilometre than short distance flights. A process of adjustment is going on. However, I fear that the process of adjustment will never satisfy those who come from the Northern Territory, Western Australia and Queensland, and that process of adjustment will also irritate those who fly on short haul routes. I believe that we are moving towards a situation which will be fairer, on the facts, to all air travellers. 
-The only other area of public transport in which I have any knowledge of a flag fall existing is the taxi industry. The flag fall is imposed in that situation to take account of the fact that certain fixed costs are involved in each trip. That is much more applicable in the airline business than in the taxi business. The airline is providing extensive capital facilities which are there for each passenger, whether he is travelling for 100 kilometres or 15,000 kilometres. That is a factor which applies equally to each passenger who uses a facility. On the other hand, on a short route an aeroplane is involved in its take-off for perhaps 30 minutes- using a large amount of fuel- and in landing, for 30 minutes. Other phases of flights are maintained at a constant level for perhaps two hours. There are different costs involved. These are matters which have to be taken into account when determining the proper fare. It has certainly been a fact- this is a matter simply of observation- that from time to time taxi proprietors apply for an increase in flag fall, presumably for the same sort of reasons as one applies a flag fall cost at the beginning, namely, that there are fixed costs arising and costs which have no relationship to the distance travelled by a passenger. 
In Question No. 953 of 24 October,  Senator Robertson  asked whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission had been offered television rights by a commercial channel for coverage of certain rugby league test matches. A reply was printed in the Senate  Hansard  of 4 June.  Senator Robertson  queried the reply on 5 June and sought further assurances as to the accuracy of the answer to paragraph (2) of the question. I indicated that I would check the answer. I have made inquiries of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and my information is that the answer I gave is accurate. That is the information I have received through the ABC. If the honourable senator has some further query about this matter, he is free to raise it with me either in the Senate or outside. 
-On 28 May,  Senator Tate  referred to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts entitled Children and Television' and sought information on the Government's reaction to the report. I am advised by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that he is well aware of the widespread community concern over the possible detrimental effects of television upon children. Indeed, he has publicly called upon stations and program makers for marked improvements in children's programming. The level of concern has, of course, been fully documented in the Committee's report and, most recently, by public submissions and comment to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal during its recent round of television licence renewal hearings.  Senator Tate  and all honourable senators will be aware of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 's recent moves in this area and its adoption of stricter guidelines. This matter is of fundamental importance so far as the Government is concerned and accordingly the Committee's report and other evidence is currently receiving the fullest consideration. The Minister expects to be in a position to indicate the extent of the Government 's response soon, but I do not think we will be able to meet  Senator Tate's  request that it be before we rise this week. 
-On 29 May,  Senator Davidson  sought advice on the Government's response to the recommendations set out in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the employment of musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am assured by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that the apparent lack of any Government response to this report should not be regarded as indicating any lack of interest by the Government to these important recommendations. The implications of the recommendations for the ABC are significant and therefore have been the subject of extensive consultations with the ABC. Because of his obvious interest in these matters, the Minister for Home Affairs has been kept informed. Whilst consultations with the ABC are continuing, the Minister expects to put recommendations to the Government in the near future. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the investigation report of the Department of Transport Air Safety Branch on the accident to a Portenovia aircraft operated by Speedair Proprietary Limited, near Essendon Airport on 10 July 1978. I present this report in accordance with an undertaking given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  last year, but I should indicate that only a limited number of copies are available, and they have been placed in the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable senators. The Department of Transport will be sending individual copies to all senators within the next two weeks. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a document entitled 'Collisions with Utility Poles- Summary Report' prepared under contract by Fox, Good and Joubert of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Melbourne University, for the Office of Road Safety within the Department of Transport. 
Poles which carry utilities such as electricity and telephone wires. 
This will be of particular interest to the Opposition. For the information of honourable senators I present three reports which now complete the second stage of the evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan. The reports are: 'From Vague Ideas to Unfeasible Roles' by  Dr L.  J. Tierney, Department of Social Studies, University of Melbourne- I think the Opposition would expect that to be about the Whitlam Government; 'Australian Assistance Plan Evaluation Report Number 2', by  Dr A.  Graycer, School of Social Sciences, the Flinders University of South Australia; and 'The Australian Assistance Plan in Tasmania: Report of The Second Evaluation', by  Mr J.  W. Ife, Department of Social Work, Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. 
The reports cover specific aspects of the implementation of the Australian Assistance Plan in Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia as well as general issues of interest to people and groups involved in community development and social welfare programs. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a paper entitled 'Multiculturalism and its Implications for Immigration Policy' prepared jointly by the Australian Population and Immigration Council and the Australian Ethnic Affairs Council, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs relating to the paper. 
Out of respect to  Senator Harradine  and the Senate I think I should respond to his comments. The Government opposes the reference of the Bill to the Committee because it has been made clear in the debate that it wishes to have this legislation passed in this session. With respect to the honourable senator's specific concerns about the operation of section 28-1 did not pick that up in my response to the second reading debate- while I understand the point of principle he made, if ever there was a case where one need not worry about that principle it is this one. My reason for saying that is that section 28 specifically gives the Governor-General power to make regulations declaring that the Act shall apply in relation to employees of the department subject to specified modifications and adaptations. In other words it gives power to vary the Act in its application to parliamentary Departments. 1 would have thought that there was no area in which the Parliament would be more likely to take an active interest in the regulations which would give them the same extensive perusal as would be given to any statute. I think that all honourable senators know that there is a strong parliamentary feeling among members of the Senate in particular and the House of Representatives. I have little doubt that if the Government proposed to make changes by regulation to the operation of the Act as it applied to Parliament in a way that was unsatisfactory to the parliament, that would be reflected in appropriate parliamentary action. For these reasons the Government proposes to oppose the amendment. 
This area has been cavassed extensively in debate at the second reading stage and J addressed myself to it in response. For the reasons I indicated then, the Government does not accept this amendment. The general nature of the existing clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii), which is the concern of the Opposition, is limited in the three ways which I have mentioned. One is the power to disallow. Another is the fact that it is qualified by what proceeds it as to what can be prescribed. I am sorry, the third matter escapes me at the moment. 
In other words, one cannot under the existing sub-paragraph (iii) make regulations which are as broad as they might appear to be at first reading. The existing words are 'for any other prescribed reason', but the prescribed reasons would have to relate to the earlier part of the clause, to achieve the first object of Part II of the Bill and that is the efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed, so that if the regulations were things which were not related to the efficient and economical use of people, the regulations could be subject to challenge. The third point-- 
Yes, and it relates to subclauses 1 (a) and 1 (b). It is not 'at large'. One cannot prescribe for example, that all people of a certain height, religion and so on could be excluded. The third point is that sub-clause (2) of clause 7 requires consultations by the Public Service Board with the organisations. 
-That is to enable the Government to prescribe by regulation other reasons which may arise with respect to the efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed by the Department. I think some examples have already been given of that in the sense, for example, that somebody may not have an appropriate licence. That is the sort of thing which is picked up by the Opposition 's specific amendment. At this stage the Government does not wish to limit itself to the sort of particulars which are contained in the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Approved criteria and procedures). 

 - Senator Chipp has indicated his continuing concern about the clause which has just passed. If I can just quickly address myself to that clause, I point out that the provisions of clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) to which our attention was directed and which uses the words 'for any other prescribed reason' has to be read subject to sub-clause (a), which states that the objects of this Part are: 
. to ensure, to the greatest extent that it is practicable, that each Department and each prescribed Commonwealth authority operates in such a manner as to make efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed in the Department or by the authority; 
A regulation which was outside those bounds could be declared ultra vires. I was concerned about the operation of that sub-clause and I sought legal advice. I am assured that the situation is that the prescribed reasons must relate to the efficient and economical use of the services of the persons concerned. I am sure that  Senator Chipp  is familiar with the general concept of regulations being ultra vires an Act. The point I was making was that one would examine those regulations against clause 7 ( 1 ) (a). 
I am advised with respect to the question raised by  Senator Evans  and by  Senator Chipp  that clause 8(3)(c) provides only for the initiation of procedures and does not forecast the outcome of the procedures. An example of the circumstances in which a permanent head could be required to apply the procedures is when the functions of departments are changed following changes to administrative arrangements. In those circumstances he would be directed to give effect to the procedures without the actual outcome being determined by that direction. 
I am advised that this provision would apply in the sort of case where there might be an invalidity situation in which the individual concerned appealed against a decision that he should be invalided out and the Public Service Board was of a view that there was some doubt about the matter. The permanent head could be directed to subject that employee, that individual, to the procedures of the Act. Those are the sorts of circumstances which I am advised would be applied. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Efficient and economical use of staff). 

 - Senator Evans's remarks canvassed areas which have been dealt with in debate. I think that the honourable senator has explained very clearly the linkage between the different amendments which are put forward. They are seeking the provision of a right to appeal against a finding that there is a surplus of a particular category of staff in a particular department. The clear view which has been expressed by the Government is that that is not a matter which should be subject to appeal. There are certain policy matters which are the prerogative of government as to what functions a department is to perform.  Mr Viner  said: 
The Bill provides the necessary means to enable departments, authorities and the Public Service Board to adjust their staffing resources to meet changes in policy or priorities the Government might make from time to time. 
It is arguable, as the honourable senator has argued, that the decision as to whether a department needs a specific number of a particular category of employ es is one which ought to be in the hands of an appeal tribunal. But in the view of the Government that is not the case. 
Amendments negatived. 
The Government's attitude to this amendment has really been declared in the speech I made when I closed the second reading debate in which I indicated certain views that had been given to me by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  The Government opposes the amendment. The Minister said: 
The Bill leaves a number of aspects to be covered by the regulations and procedures and criteria statements. 
During the Committee stage of the debate in the House of Representatives the Minister referred to some of these; for instance, the date of effect of a declaration under section 9, the need to notify the employee who is declared of the rights and methods of appeal and the reasons for issue of a declaration which, of course, is the subject of this amendment. The nature and extent of the provision to be made and whether a particular aspect should be included in the procedures and criteria statements or in regulations or in both is still under consideration. As  Mr Viner  indicated, these are among the matters which will be subject to further discussions with staff associations. As necessary the Government will consider the proposals in light of the views of the Public Service Board and staff associations. But it is not proposed that this amendment should be accepted. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 14- by leave-taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 15 (Appeals). 

 - Senator Evans correctly indicated that these matters have been extensively debated. The purpose of these provisions is simply to ensure consistency and expedition in appeals where a number of staff members are involved in an excess staff situation. Without those provisions one would have a quite unmanageable situation. The Government does not accept the amendments. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
The first matter raised by  Senator Evans  was why section 23 had been drafted in terms that were wider than was indicated by the Leader ofthe Government  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech and it was intended that the regulations should operate. I suppose it would have been possible to legislate in section 23 precisely in the terms indicated by the Minister in his second reading speech concerning the way in which the payments were intended to be made. I am advised that there will be discussions with the staff associations about special benefits in the excess numbers situation. At the moment it is proposed that it should be applied only to clause 7 ( 1 ) (b) (iii) situations. It may be that there will be an extension to the excess numbers situation. This has yet to be determined. The clause has been drafted in that way to allow flexibility with respect to the circumstances in which payments will be made. 
-Presumably the new regulations will reflect the position laid down in the second reading speech. That does not preclude subsequent regulations from being issued. In any event, that is the reason why clause 28 has been drafted in that way. I have dealt with the first part of the matters raised by  Senator Harradine  but, with respect to sub-section (2) I would note that employment arrangements vary from authority to authority. In other words, the Act could be applied to a variety of employment situations in different authorities. For that reason, the Government believes that it is necessary to have flexibility in regard to the way in which the Act can be applied to various authorities. 
The question whether a particular clause should be referred to a committee is in the hands of the Senate rather than those of the Government. Normally, it is also influenced by the attitude of the committee itself. If  Senator Harradine  wishes to seek a post-passage reference to a committee, he should perhaps consult the appropriate committee  chairman  to ascertain whether the committee would be interested in receiving such a reference, and then bring the matter up in the Senate. 
From a quick look at the definitions of 'department' and prescribed Commonwealth authority' I do not feel able to give a definitive legal opinion on the matter raised by  Senator Evans.  However, I think it is the intention of the Government that the legislation should be read as indicating that the departments stand separate from prescribed Commonwealth authorities. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment, report adopted. 
The importance of the Public Service in the life of this country can be gauged, I believe, by the extensive debate that has been devoted to this particular measure. It is a measure which, in concept was introduced as long ago as 1976. It has been the subject of lengthy discussion and debate in both chambers of this Parliament. 1 am pleased to see that there is a degree of broad agreement on both sides of both Houses of the Parliament with respect to certain aspects of the legislation. 
To start with the most motherhood type of proposition it seems that all honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives are in favour of efficiency and economy. I am sure that our constituents, of whatever political colour, will be relieved to note that we see fit to be in favour of both those things. However, it appears that, if one looks at the amendment that has been moved in the Senate, the Opposition is in favour of some of the other more specific proportions that are contained in the legislation. 
If one examines the amendment moved to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time' one finds that the Opposition is not opposing the concept of this Bill, namely, the idea of management-initiated retirement. An honourable senator became very upset about that term being introduced into the legislation but, in fact, I do not think it appears. The Opposition does not appear to be against that concept because it is seeking the withdrawal of the Bill, not so that it will not be continued with, but simply so that it can be redrafted. 
Opposition senators want it to incorporate specific reasoning- for which I read 'reasons'for termination of employment. I take it that that is the Opposition's complaint about section 7(1). Secondly, the Opposition seeks a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment. I hope that the audience to which this debate is largely addressed understands that there is political unanimity on the point that sensibly to have economy and efficiency there may need to be situations where people do not have a permanent guarantee of employment. In other words, when a person passes a Public Service examination and enters the Public Service that does not give him a lifetime guarantee. That employment is subject to the needs of the Australian people as conveived by the elected Australian Government. 
I am concerned at the suggestions which have been made in this debate that in some way this Bill is an attempt to undermine the independence of the Public Service. I think that would be a very serious charge if it were made out. I do not suggest for a moment that it has been made out. If we look at the Bill we find that this system of ascertaining where there are excess employees, of trying to redeploy them, and of ending anyone's employment, only after a lengthy procedure is not in the hands of politicians. It is in the hands of the heads of departments and of the Public Service Board. I would have thought that it was quite in line with the views of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, which have been expressed and quoted ad nauseam in the debate in the Senate and elsewhere. 
I think that some of the matters which have been raised are very properly raised and aired in the Senate. I shall focus on some particular points which were made initially by  Senator Button,  who led for the Opposition in the debate and which were then embellished in various ways by subsequent speakers.  Senator Button  said that there were two major areas. Those areas concerned points which were made in the amendment to which I have already referred. I was a little surprised that  Senator Button  was a little looser in his criticisms of this Bill than I think is his wont in this chamber. He complained on a number of occasions about the provisions of clause 7. He said that those provisions excluded the Parliament. He made that comment in a number of ways. Referring to clause 7 ( I ) (b) (iii), he suggested that the Government is saying: 'You can really leave all those questions of what are prescribed reasons for disemployment of people in what has formerly been a career service to the Executive of this country'. I suggest that that is a very exaggerated and inadequate description of what is provided in clause 7. There are three reasons why that is so. 
Firstly, as has been stated in the debate on a number of occasions, the regulations made under that clause will be subject to disallowance by this Parliament, as are other regulations. I think that is a matter which governments must take seriously, if not because of the existence of the House of Representatives then because of the existence of this chamber. Secondly, the scope of the regulations which can be made is limited by the objects of the Bill in clause 7. Thirdly, consultations required by the Bill in clause 7 (2) have been queried. The Government intends that those consultations should be real and  Mr Viner  has advised  Mr Munro,  the Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association that that is the case. I simply put on record that that is the Government's undertaking. I understand that today the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  in response to a question asked yesterday by  Mr Keith  Johnson, also made it clear that the Government intends that there should be frank and comprehensive consultation and that that is also the intention of the Public Service Board. 
I do no wish to delay the Senate, but I must touch very briefly on the criticism of the extensive use of regulations. That matter has been raised by various speakers in this debate. Because it is a matter of importance and a matter which is very much the sort of thing that concerns the Senate, I have consulted with the Minister to get some reassurance. I am advised by the Minister that although the Bill leaves a number of aspects to be covered by the regulations of procedures and criteria statements, during the Committee stages of the debate in the House of Representatives,  Mr Viner,  referred to some of these, such as the date of effect of a declaration under clause 9 (1) (b) (ii) and the need to notify the employee, who is declared, of the rights and methods of appeal and the reasons for issue of the declaration. The nature and extent of the provision to be made and whether a particular aspect should be included in the procedures and criteria statements or in regulations or both, is still under consideration.  Mr Viner  indicated that these are among the matters which will be subject to further discussions with staff associations. As necessary, the Government will consider the proposals in the light of the views of the Board and of staff associations. 
The last matter on which I want to touch is the other major matter which was raised by  Senator Button  by way of objection to the legislation. That is what he described as the lack of comprehensive appeal arrangements. In relation to the Government,  Mr Viner  in the House of Representatives stated:   . . does not consider it appropriate Tor its decisions of policy matters and on the priorities it gives to certain functions that affect staffing resources to bc the subject of appeal . . . The Bill provides the necessary means to enable departments, authorities and the Public Service Board to adjust their staffing resources to meet changes in policy or priorities that the Government might make from time to time. Ministers and the Government are continuously accountable to Parliament for their conduct of public affairs and arc ultimately answerable to the electorate. 
From my recent discussions with ACOA I understand that it does not want an appeal right against the management decision per se. Rather, it wants identification ofthe class in which the redundancy occurs to be appealable as to whether the class arises from the cause; that is, whether the redundancy arose from the Government's decision. In other words, the Government takes the view that the decisions, which are properly decisions of management as to what jobs are required, should not be subject to appeal. The decisions which relate to the individual 's place in the decided scheme of things are matters which should be subject to appeal. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I urge honourable senators to reject the amendments which have been moved and which are proposed. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Button's amendment)  be left out. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 now before the Senate proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill introduces tariff changes, foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his speech in the House of Representatives on 24 May 1979, in relation to the imposition of an ad valorem revenue customs duty of 2 per cent on most goods currently imported free of customs duty, including those under Customs By-laws items 19 and 25. The 2 per cent revenue customs duty, which will operate on and from 1 July 1979, is estimated to yield about $73m revenue in 1979-80. Most duty free imports not covered by the following exceptions will be subject to the revenue duty. These exceptions are being made because of international trade commitments and other trade reasons. Exceptions will include goods of New Zealand, Papua New Guinea or developing country origin and goods covered by rates bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
Educational, scientific and cultural material being goods covered by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation convention commonly known as the 'Florence Agreement' will not be subject to the revenue duty. While Australia is not a signatory to the Florence Agreement it has generally adhered to its general policy of not impeding, by the imposition of customs duties, the free flow of material covered by the Agreement. These include printed books, newspapers, journals, music, maps, plans, films, instruments, gramophone records, paintings, antiques, et cetera. Certain paper and cinematographic film currently imported duty free and which form inputs into these goods when produced in Australia will be exempt. Crude and enriched petroleum oil will be exempt as it is further manufactured into products which are then subject to excise duties. 
Certain goods which enter duty free under Schedule 2 of the Customs Tariff also will be exempt. For example, motor vehicle components will continue to enter duty free without the imposition of the 2 per cent ad valorem revenue customs duty because of Government commitments in the context of the motor vehicle plans, and the need to avoid disruption to manufacturers' arrangements under this Plan. Other 'noncommercial' goods which enter duty free under Schedule 2 such as outside packages, re-imports, Government purchases et cetera will also be exempt, along with teaching aids, goods used in research programs in tertiary institutions, samples and other goods where the administrative costs of collecting the revenue duty would probably outweigh the revenue collected. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
I thank Government senators for the support that they have given to this Bill and also for the fact that they have take up many of the points made in this debate by the Opposition, which means that I do not need to reply in detail. I thank  Senator Baume  for his strong remarks. I must say that his chiding of the Opposition remind me of a recent occasion which I chided my children and said to them: 'I really wish you would stop behaving like children'. After all, oppositions always behave like oppositions and oppose increases in taxation and argue in favour of every benefit. 

 Senator Ryan raised a couple of specific matters to which she sought a response. I do not think she has been given that response. The honourable senator stated that many people would incur significant expenses for services below $20, which is where the majority of services occur. It is a fact that under the new medical insurance arrangements that will apply from 1 September uninsured patients could incur a large expense in relation to individual medical services costing less than $20. That is the reason, or one of the main reasons, why in announcing the new measures the Minister for Health  (Mr 
Hunt) advised persons who are not insured to weigh up their personal circumstances carefully and decide whether it would be in their best interests to remain uninsured or to take out insurance with a fund. 
It needs to be stressed that the protection that is given to uninsured patients who are genuinely disadvantaged still applies provided the services in respect of those patients are bulk billed and the patients are recognised by their doctors, or other professionals dealing with them as the case may be, as being disadvantaged. Benefits will be paid at a flat rate of 75 per cent of the schedule fee and these patients will not have to make any contribution towards their medical expenses. The new arrangements were made in an attempt to reduce the total national health cost which is around $8 billion for the current financial year. This level was unacceptable at the time when the nation faced a continuing situation of economic difficulties, and so the necessity to reduce the level of government subsidy to individuals who were able to pay for medical costs while at the same time the Government shows concern for pensioners and other disadvantaged persons in the community. In another point raised by  Senator Ryan  she questioned the Government's intention in the arrangements for disadvantaged persons. The question of whether a person is to be regarded as disadvantaged is a matter between the doctor and the patient. This principle was stated frequently when the legislation was originally introduced and subsequently, and it will be maintained by the Government. I commend the Bills to the Senate. The Government of course opposes the amendments. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Ryan's amendment)  be left out. 
I thank honourable senators for their contribution to this debate. I acknowledge that a degree of restraint has been shown by many honourable senators who would have wished to speak on this important measure. Because of the tightness of the Government's program at the moment, some honourable senators also spoke for a shorter period than they might otherwise have done. I thank them for that. There were a number of very positive points made in the brief contribution by  Senator Mulvihill.  I think it would be fair to say that I detected a note of optimism when he said that from the Australian Federal Police Bill 1 979 we would be building a more effective police force. I do think that that was a very appropriate note on which the second reading stage of the debate ended. Many of the concerns which were expressed by other honourable senators opposite were concerns in terms of wishing that perhaps larger steps had been taken to create a more substantial force along the lines of what was envisaged in 1 975. 
This Bill will ensure the amalgamation of the two police forces which are now the responsibility of the Commonwealth. That in itself will do something to reduce the problems of rivalry which  Senator Mulvihill  addressed himself to. I believe that the provisions of the Bill will enable the Commissioner of the new force to make more satisfactory arrangements with State forces than might have existed in the past. So I think that there are two areas where there will be significant improvement in the area of concern mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill.  I will briefly remind the Senate that the Government, in bringing in this Bill, indicated that the creation of the new single federal police force had three objectives. The first objective is to overcome the problems that are associated with the distinctions of jurisdictional boundaries for the functions of police organisations, not only throughout Australia but in the Australian Capital Territory. That, of course, is very squarely in  Senator Mulvihill  's area. The second objective is to provide a firm basis for more effective co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in the law enforcement area. The third objective is to co-ordinate more effectively and economically police resources in the Commonwealth area. The Government is confident that those objectives will be achieved with this legislation. 
The Government was asked by the Opposition to accept an amendment that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. I think all honourable senators opposite would understand that the Government would not agree with that proposition. A good deal of effort has gone into preparing the Bill which the Government believes will achieve its objectives. The Government does not believe it should start again. There were some complaints made in the speech of  Senator Gietzelt  about the lack of consultation on this Bill. To my knowledge- I speak from my experience during the brief period when I served as Minister for Administrative Services- that is not the case. In fact, the associations for both of the police forces concerned were involved in the process which has led to the putting together of this Bill. 
If I can quickly turn to at least a part of that process both associations- that is, the Commonwealth Police Officers Association and the Australian Capital Territory Police Associationtook part as members of the consultative working groups for the task force in August and September of last year. I, as the then Minister, had talks with both associations in October of last year. The task force which was established to work on this Bill and the Secretary ofthe Department of Administrative Services had talks with both associations in November. In addition, the task force and the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  had talks with them in January of this year. Also the Minister and other Ministers concerned, the Government Members Law and Government Committee and the Administrative Services Committee all had talks with the associations over the period January to May of this year. 1 noted also that there were extensive consultations with the Opposition, as one would expect under our system of government. I do believe that every opportunity has been given for those serving officers of the current forces to contribute to the thinking which has gone into the preparation of this Bill. 

 Mr President, if you look at the reasons which are listed for the Opposition wishing the Bill to be withdrawn and redrafted, it becomes quite evident why we would not wish to go along with that course of action.  Mr McLeay  responded in the other place on the question of the single component force and the Government has made a clear policy decision in coming forward with the two-component force. I refer honourable senators to the arguments put down by  Mr McLeay  at page 3035 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 6 June 1 979. 1 wish, however, specifically to draw to the Senate's attention something which I think is fundamental to this proposal; that is, that the Government has been concerned in respect of the police affected by this proposal and has provided in clauses 25 and 26 of the Bill, together with clause 73, for general mobility between the components, subject to the usual principles of competence and qualifications, as well as a preferential opportunity for mobility between components for the present police as against new recruits. That and the training opportunities which are to be available to existing serving officers will, I believe, ensure that all existing serving officers have their present career prospects protected. 
With respect to the second point made in the Opposition's amendment, the rights of appeal available to officers under the new legislation are the equivalent of those available to them under the present legislation. There is no diminution of appeal rights under this legislation. Essentially the Opposition is putting forward the proposition that the existing appeal right should be extended rather than that there is any change brought about by this Bill. 
The third point concerns the use of the expression 'Governor-General' instead of Governor-General-in-Council'. I think the Opposition is starting at shadows. The term Governor-General' is the only term used throughout this Bill. There is no use of the term Governor-General-in-Council' in one part and Governor-General another. 

 - Senator Evans acknowledged his own sensitivity in his speech. After all, he was professionally involved in a consultative capacity in some of the lead up during the days of the Labor Government. I remember consulting with him on some of the other legislation on which he worked. But he has a certain professional pride in what was brought forward by the government at that time and a certain strength of feeling about the events of November 1975. He makes no attempt to hide either of those facts. There is no reason why he should. I suggest that the rest of the members of the Opposition might feel a little more relaxed if they look at section 16A of the Acts Interpretation Act, which makes it clear that a reference to Governor-General, unless there is some contrary intention indicated, is a reference to the Governor-General-in-Council. I think that is the actual position. The point raised by the Opposition therefore is not one of substance. 
Yes, that is right. The fourth point is that the Opposition is concerned to confer on the Minister more extensive powers of direction of the Commissioner. The Government has given this matter- as in all of these questions- careful consideration and in ensuring that the Commissioner has the operational control of the force I think we are complying with the concept of the general public and the electorate of how a police force ought to operate. It ought not to operate subject to specific political direction in operational matters. Certainly it ought to be subject to governmental control in terms of broad policy. That distinction is one which the Government defends and which I think meets the needs of Australia. The fifth point mentioned relates to a system for independent determination of complaints against police in accordance with the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission. This is a matter that is regarded as serious by the Government. The Government has it under consideration. I think that some further information will be available to the Senate very shortly on that point. 

 Senator Evans was concerned about the ability of politicians to do a Vicar of Bray and support a proposition on one occasion and not on another. There are significant distinctions between what is proposed by the Government in this Bill and what was proposed in the 1975 Bill. This Bill does not propose an extension of police powers in any way whereas police powers were extended in the 1975 legislation. 
They were extended by the addition of the Customs powers which would have been involved in the formation of that force. That would have been an additional element. The Australia Police Bill was brought in with the usual sensitivity of the then Government with respect to the feelings of the Australian Federation. The title alone was provocative to the States. It aimed at bringing together more than the two police forces brought together under this Bill. It brought together those two forces as well as the Northern Territory police and the Narcotics Bureau. There are quite clear differences in the two Bills. In bringing forward this Bill, the Government is responding to the very real need to produce the most efficient and effective police force possible to carry out the functions which are at present split between two forces and, at the same time, to improve the ability of the Federal Police to liaise and work with the other police forces which will continue to be responsible for normal police functions throughout the States and the Northern Territory. I commend the Bill to the Senate. We oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Gietzelt's amendment)  be left out. 
On 9 May 1979  (Hansard,  pages 1730-1 ),  Senator Coleman  asked the Minister for Science and the Environment a question without notice concerning a newspaper report released by the United States National Academy of Scientists which concluded that there was no known threshold below which radiation ceased to have adverse effects on human beings. The Minister subsequently referred the question to the Minister for Health, who has provided the following information: 
It has been widely accepted for many years that for most biological effects no radiation threshold is likely to exist. It is also well established that the risk of radiation effects is less for a smaller dose than for a larger dose. This decline of risk with reducing dose is believed to continue to zero dose for many radiation effects including the induction of cancer and undesirable genetic consequences. However, there are clear benefits arising from the uses of radiation in our society and these must be weighed against the radiation risks associated with these uses. 
The principal source of radiation in Australia, as elsewhere, is the natural background radiation of about 100 mrem per year. An additional radiation exposure to our population arises from medical use of X-rays and this is by far the greatest contributor to all radiation above natural background. 
In Australia, the National Health and Medical Research Council, (N.H. and M.R.C.) is conducting through the Australian Radiation Laboratory (ARL) of my Department, a national survey of radiation exposure due to medical uses of radiation. The results of this survey are expected next year and it can be anticipated that the average exposure to the Australian population from this use of radiation will be of similar magnitude to that observed in other countries with similar medical traditions. In general, in developed countries this increase is equal to about half of the natural background and gives rise to cases of radiation-induced diseases the number of which is very small compared with the natural incidence of the diseases in society. On the other hand, it is very clear that the benefit associated with diagnostic use of X-rays is very great. 
This risk/benefit or sometimes cost/benefit philosophy is very apparent in the thinking that has gone into the development of the most recent international radiation protection standards. Radiation protection standards are set by trying to determine how far radiation exposure may be reduced before important information is lost or the cost of alternatives becomes too high. 
In fact, the maximum permitted exposure levels recommended by the International Committee on Radiological Protection are such that the maximum risks to workers who use radiation are comparable to those in other industries. In addition, there is a principle which has been accepted that radiation doses should be kept as low as reasonably achievable and, in practice, the doses actually received by radiation workers are generally very much below the maximum permitted levels. 
-On 10 May 1979  (Hansard,  page 1791)  Senator Bishop  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity a question without notice concerning the part taken by the Government in monitoring and preparing statistics on asbestos-caused diseases so as to ensure there will be as much public awareness as possible of the health hazards of asbestos, and in producing whatever remedies are available after proper monitoring. The Minister for Productivity subsequently referred the question to the Minister for Health, who has provided the following information: 
The prevention and control of the asbestos hazard and health provisions relating to asbestos-caused diseases are primarily matters for the States. Consequently the States are the appropriate authorities for monitoring and collecting statistics. However, the Commonwealth has been active in introducing preventive and control measures mainly through the States. The legislation that exists in the States, or is soon to be brought about has been influenced by model regulations developed by the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC) which acts in an advisory capacity to all Governments in Australia on public health matters. 
In addition to the model regulations, the NH &amp; MRC has produced and distributed widely the following publications: 
Code of Practice for Handling Consignments of Asbestos Fibre in Australian Ports and Container Terminals. 
Code for the Handling of Asbestos by Small Users. 
Membrane Filter Method for Estimating Airborne Asbestos Dust. 
Occupational Health Guide- Asbestos. 
The NH &amp; MRC has examined and reported on the health risks associated with exposure to asbestos on a number of previous occasions. However, in view of considerable recent publicity on diseases alleged to have been caused by exposure to asbestos, and as I announced in March, a Subcommittee of the NH &amp; MRC has been set up to enquire into and report to the Public Health Advisory Committee of the NH &amp; MRC on risks to health caused by exposure to asbestos or products containing asbestos to: people at work; members of the public exposed to asbestos from work activity; and members of the public exposed to asbestos from consumer products and asbestos waste. 
The Sub-committee will make recommendations on hygienic standards for occupational and environmental exposure to asbestos. 
The Sub-committee comprises Commonwealth and State health officials and representatives from the trade unions and relevant areas of industry. It has recently publicly invited written submissions from interested persons and organisations to assist it in its work, and will examine all relevant information provided to it. 
The Sub-committee will progressively report through the Public Health Advisory Committee of NH &amp; MRC, so that appropriate recommendations can be endorsed by Council and widely publicised. Any action resulting from Council's recommendations will, of course, be a matter for consideration by States. 
My recollection is that arrangements relating to rifle ranges have been under reconsideration for quite a lengthy period. I have no knowledge that any firm decisions have been made as to what the future of the various rifle ranges around Australia ought to be. I will refer the question to  Mr McLeay  and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
I regret that I cannot give the honourable senator an answer to that question. I will have to refer it to the Minister for Health for a reply. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to  Mr Staley  for a reply. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Social Security. 
I do not think I need to canvass the amendment. Basically it goes to the two component question. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 and 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13 (General administration and control). 
Again, the reasons for opposing those amendments have already been stated. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 26 (Non-commissioned officers). 
These amendments are opposed for the same reasons. 
Amendments negatived. 
I also rely on the comments which I made to the previously proposed amendment to clause 36. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 37 (Resignation). 
The matters which have been raised by  Senator Evans  are not matters on which, in principle, there is any conflict between the Government and the Opposition. It was made clear in the second reading speech that the Government anticipates being able to introduce legislation on complaints procedure later in the year. That legislation is to be based on the Australian Law Reform Commission's report on complaints procedure. It will also cover vicarious liability, which I think is the subject of the next amendment the honourable senator wishes to move. Without wishing to quibble, but merely to indicate that one cannot necessarily just pick up what is proposed by the Opposition and dob it into the Bill - 
I was about to explain why, the proposition having been put to me by  Senator Evans.  The amendment provides: 
Commissioner' means the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Commissioner of Police under the Public Service Act 1922. 
I do not raise that point to quibble, but merely to point out that that provision is not a piece of drafting which fits into the structure at all. With the passage of this legislation, we will not have a commissioner under the Public Service Act 1922. The Government has indicated clearly that it does propose to legislate in this area, and legislation will be introduced later this year. I anticipate that a more complete statement will be made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the very near future. It is for that reason we do not accept the Opposition's proposal which is before us now. 
Proposed new Part negatived. 
Proposed new Part IX. 
As I have indicated already, the Government proposes to bring down legislation to cover the problem raised by  Senator Evans.  Honourable senators will be aware that in fact there is a very good reason for one being unable to pick up on the run an amendment of the sort moved by  Senator Evans.  The matter does need government consideration. Legislation will be brought down and consideration will be given to it. For that reason, the amendment moved by the Opposition is opposed. 
Proposed new Part negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I understand that the original idea of the Year of the Child cannot be attributed to any particular person or body. There was a Declaration of Rights of the Child in 1959 and since that time many members of the United Nations have been urging the setting aside of a special year during which particular attention could be given to the situation of children. The decision to have an International Year of the Child was taken at the Thirty-first Session of the United Nations General Assembly on 2 1 December 1976 and the year 1979 was chosen as it is the 20th anniversary of the Declaration of Rights of the Child. 

 Senator Jessop raises the very interesting suggestion that there should be a year of the pioneer. We have had a touch of that in my home State of Western Australia in the celebrations of our 1 50th Anniversary of the State but that in large part has involved people getting dressed up to look as though they are pioneers. I think the honourable senator is suggesting something which would involve the elderly directly. I will certainly refer that suggestion to  Senator Guilfoyle  for consideration. 
-The inter-city rivalry between Sydney and Melbourne seems to have commenced on this issue. I heard  Mr Brian  Dixon say in a radio broadcast this morning that Melbourne could do it for $500m, so he has just reduced the ante by 75 per cent. I would have thought that this decision lay within the province of the Government generally, and perhaps the Prime Minister in particular, and I will refer the question to him for consideration. 
As I understand the decision of the Industrial Court in Queensland, there is no commencing date because the award wages should have been paid all along. I understand that the basis of the decision was that the award overrode the regulations under which the less-than-award wages were paid. I have not seen the actual judgment- I am relying on reports which have been given to me on it- but, if it is the case that the Court has found that award wages are payable on the reserves, that finding would be applicable immediately because that is the law. There has been talk of the additional cost to the State of Queensland. I think that the Queensland Government has put a figure of some $7m on it. It has made a request to the Commonwealth for additional grants to cover that sum. The Government has that request under consideration. I simply point out to the 
Senate that the finding of the Court is that it is the operation of Queensland law which requires the payment of award wages on reserve communities. 
That is probably a request for an opinion. In any event, I cannot answer that question. My understanding is simply that the judge has said that that is the law which applies and therefore the award wages should be paid. I cannot say whether there is a right to claim retrospectively. 1 would have to seek advice on that matter. 
-On Wednesday  Senator Lewis  asked a question about the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal's inquiry into radio station 3CR and reports of a breakdown in discussions between the Board of Management of radio station 3CR and the Jewish Board of Deputies, Victorian Division. He suggested that the Government give consideration to the suspension of 3CR's licence as a means of reopening discussions between the parties. Before advising the honourable senator of the current position in this matter I remind all honourable senators that  Senator Lewis's  suggestion that the Government suspend 3CR's licence is of course impossible to implement. Amendments to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal Act in 1977 removed any government involvement in the broadcasting licensing process by referring this function to and placing full authority for its decisions in an independent statutory authority, namely the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Concerning the current state of negotiations, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that at the Tribunal's last sitting on 7 May 1979 the Board of Management of the station requested the Tribunal to adjourn its hearings into this matter because of substantial changes to the composition of the Board of Management and the fact that the station's counsel was no longer available and new counsel would need to be briefed. 
The Tribunal agreed to the adjournment and set Tuesday, 31 July 1979, as the date for resumption of the inquiry. The extended delay in resuming the inquiry was unavoidable in view of the Tribunal's commitments to other licence inquiries, notably those in respect of the Melbourne television stations. The discussions between the parties have received considerable Press coverage and of course took place at the initiative of the parties themselves and were not part of or conditional on the adjournment of the inquiry. The Tribunal is unaware of the nature of the discussions and the reasons for the reported breakdown. All parties to the inquiry have indicated a desire for the terms of reference to be clarified and narrowed in the interests of expediting its completion. The Jewish Board of Deputies, for its part, has indicated it is not averse to having references to possible suspension or revocation of 3CR 's licence removed from the terms of reference. I am sure all honourable senators hope that this matter will be settled quickly through co-operative discussions between the parties. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973 in order to approve the AlburyWodonga Development Agreement Amendment Agreement No. 1 and to implement its provisions in so far as they relate to the structure of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. The Amendment Agreement, which was signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria on 4 September 1 978, provides for an expansion in the membership of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation from five to eight members; common membership of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, the Albury-Wodonga (New South Wales) Corporation and the Albury-Wodonga (Victoria) Corporation; and the abolition of the Consultative Council. At present the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation is made up of three full time and two part time members. The Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian Ministers on the ministerial council responsible for oversight and development of Albury-Wodonga were of the unanimous view that there was a need for greater local government involvement in the decision-making process and a more effective link between the councils and the Corporation. 
It was agreed that these objectives could best be achieved if the Mayors of Albury and Wodonga were to become ex officio part time members of the Corporation. The ministerial council agreed that provision should also be made for a prominent businessman to serve on the Corporation to ensure that its membership reflects the nature of the partnership between the three levels of government and the private sector in the development of the growth centre. The responsibility for the development of AlburyWodonga is vested in three corporations established under legislation of the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian parliaments. In practice, the three corporations act as one, and it is therefore important that they have common membership. The Amendment Agreement provides for the part time members to take their places on all three corporations. The Amendment Agreement also abolishes the 16-person Consultative Council which has tended to create friction between the Corporation and local governments. 
Apart from the provisions now incorporated in the Agreement to include the Mayors of Albury and Wodonga and a businessman of national standing on the corporations, the ministerial council has also decided that the role of the range of community advisory committees that have been established to support the Corporation should be strengthened and enhanced. The ministerial council believes that these measures will ensure that the relationship between the Corporation and councils is strengthened without in any way affecting the access of interested community groups on the advisory committees to the Corporation. I understand that the measures that I have outlined were announced in the growth centre some time ago and that they have received general community support. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The Migration Amendment Bill is a timely initiative of the Government to provide responsible and effective regulation of the entry to and stay in Australia of people from overseas. In the 2 1 years since the Migration Act was passed, the character of the Australian community has markedly changed, with radical amendment to immigration policies and in the volume and nature of movements into and out of Australia. Changing conditions in other countries tend to increase the attractions of Australia for many people, making the task of control more difficult. The Act itself is a 1958 measure being tested by 1979 circumstances, and being found wanting. 
The basic mechanisms for controlling entry and residence must reflect the attitudes a.id interests of the community. They must operate to protect the community from the entry and residence of people the community does not wish to enter Australia or remain here as residents. The legislation must provide the powers to enable these mechanisms to be used effectively- to prevent entry, to enforce departure when necessary and to impose adequate penalties to deter would-be offenders. Most travellers respect Australia's immigration laws. Unfortunately, there are some who enter or remain illegally in Australia, regarding breaches of immigration laws and policies as offences of small significance. Indeed, there are those in the community who actively encourage people to break the law and evade controls and who find prohibited immigrants a lucrative source of income. 
Clearly, people who try to evade immigration controls should gain no advantage over those many others who, being also ineligible to migrate to Australia, are prepared to abide by the rules. The limits which must be set to the migrant intake are easily met through the regular processes of interview, medical examination and selection in offices around the world- criteria which are not applied to people entering temporarily or illegally. Individuals cannot be allowed to make their own rules about staying on and taking employment. Indeed, it is a fundamental and internationally accepted principle that every country has the right to determine who may enter and who may remain within its boundaries. Australia is no exception and the Government reserves to itself the right to set the conditions under which people may enter Australia and remain in Australia. It believes that immigration laws and procedures should be observed and followed just as any other Australian law should be observed. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make essential amendments to the Migration Act without changing the basic concepts in the existing legislation. In 1958 when the Migration Act was passed, there were an estimated 1.57 million overseas-born members of the Australian population. Perhaps almost half of these were pre-war settlers of long standing. The remainder were relatively new post-war arrivals. In total, people born overseas other than in Europe, including Britain, were of the order of only 160,000. By 1978 the overseas-born component had almost doubled to an estimated 2.8 million and it included settlers from every continent. This diversified expansion of the overseas-born component of the population reflects itself in the changed demographic and ethnic composition of Australia. 
In 1958 Australia was strongly seeking migrants. Immigration restrictions applied mainly to people of non-European origin. The occupational categories actively sought by Australia almost covered the spectrum, including unskilled. Earlier policies based on an intake of migrants predominantly British had been abandoned but British migration was still seen as the dominant element in the migrant intake. The intake from the relatively few other main source countries, all of which were in Europe, was nevertheless, by 1 958, quite high. Nor was it subject to restraint. There was little need or incentive for people who wanted to settle here to resort to subterfuge if they were of European origin. 
By 1 973 discrimination on grounds of race had disappeared from immigration selection policy. That was a policy evolved by several governments of both political colours. The present level of immigration for settlement is relatively low, with an emphasis on encouraging only those skills in short supply. In 1977-78 it was about 80 per cent of the level of the 1 958-59 intake despite the wider range of source countries from which settlers came. In this regard, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the Minister's statement on immigration policies and Australia's population of 7 June 1978 which emphasised the Government's recognition of immigration as a necessary element in economic growth. The Government's program acknowledges the case for caution in current conditions but is sensitive to family reunion and to humanitarian and international responsibilities. We are pursuing a long term approach to population building in which immigration is the only directable factor. The fact that the Australian community is now barely reproducing itself must recommend immigration policy to all persons who genuinely have the future welfare of this nation in mind. While the volume of intake of migrants for settlement is at a relatively low level, the level of people entering as tourist or business visitors, to undertake approved temporary employment and in other non-migrant categories has increased enormously, rising at the rate of about 5 per cent per year. The changes that have taken place in total movement are illustrated by the figures of 395,000 in 1958 and 3.4 million in 1977-78, an increase of more than 800 per cent. 
I invite attention to the increase in the volume of air movement. More than 98 per cent of arrivals are by air, and have increased from 86,300 in 1958 to almost 1.7 million in 1977-78. In the same period, the arrivals by sea declined from 144,000 to 33,000. The relatively low volume of admission for settlement in more recent years inevitably prompts attempts to circumvent immigration policies and procedures either by malpractice or by entering for allegedly temporary purposes but then staying on without authority. It is estimated that there are approximately 57,000 prohibited immigrants in the country at this time. The Government is determined to stem the flow and to reduce the numbers already here competing with citizens for employment and other benefits. No government can abdicate its responsibilities in this area. In this I am sure it has the support of the Opposition as well as the community. 
The first of the principal changes is the introduction of a statutory visa system. This is provided for by clause 9 of the Bill. A visa is a document or notation specifically in the form of a stamped impression in a passport, which informs the carrier company and immigration officer at the port of arrival in Australia that the holder, prima facie, may enter Australia. However, a visa is not, in itself, an authority to enter. Under the existing Migration Act the legal entry authority is an entry permit issued at the point of arrival. In general, however, a visa holder may expect to receive an entry permit on arrival. Thus Australia's entry control is based on the issue of a visa overseas and the grant of an entry permit on arrival in Australia. The visa system is almost universally used as a travel facilitation and control mechanism. A visa system for intending travellers to Australia has been in force administratively for many years. It has lacked statutory backing. Given the changes in the nature and volume of entry of people into Australia and the need in the light of recent review legislation for every major procedure to have its foundation in law, it has become necessary for it to be given a statutory basis in the Migration Act. The Bill provides therefore in clause 9 that a visa or return endorsement may be granted to a person by an authorised officer and that that person may seek an entry permit upon arrival in Australia. I emphasise for the information of honourable senators that Australian citizens travelling on Australian passports will not require visas or return endorsements. 
It will be an offence under clause 9 for a carrier to bring a person, other than an Australian citizen or an exempt person, to Australia without a visa or return endorsement. The offence will be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000. The Bill provides for the classes of persons who are excempt from visa requirements to be notified in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  and, in addition, individual carriers will be notified as in the past, of any change in visa requirements. The section will also provide carriers with a defence to a prosecution if the vessel was forced into Australia due to stress or weather or in circumstances of emergency, or where the carrier reasonably believed that when a person last boarded a vessel for travel to Australia, the person was an Australian citizen, a visa holder or an exempt person. The persons to be exempted from holding a visa will generally be New Zealand citizens or international travellers in transit through Australia to another destination. 
Under the amendments to be made by clauses 20 and 2 1 of the Bill it will also be possible to require carriers to remove from Australia passengers who, on arrival in Australia, have sought and been refused an entry permit. This requirement will be applicable to persons arriving by ship or by aircraft. It is not an unusual requirement. There is ample international precedent. The search for persons who breach the immigration law is an expensive and an unwanted burden on the Australian taxpayer. Thus the second major innovation included in the Bill is the introduction in clause 12 of a requirement that deportees meet the cost of their detention awaiting deportation and of their removal from Australia where they are in a position to do so. There have been numerous cases where the Commonwealth has been required to pay the fares of deportees who have by acting contrary to their conditions of temporary entry, accumulated substantial assets in this country. There are others who see it as a laudable achievement when they cash their return ticket and are sent home at cost to the Australian taxpayer. Under the present legislation deportees cannot be required to pay costs associated with their detention or removal even though they have accumulated a considerable amount of money in Australia by engaging in unauthorised employment or have valid tickets for travel out of Australia. In the period 1 July 1976 to 31 
December 1978, 2,157 deportations were effected. It is estimated that the requirement for deportees to pay costs of deportation will result in savings to the Commonwealth of over $200 per deportee for fares. In addition, I believe that the deterrent effect of the provision will be significant. Legislation in respect of deportation costs is already in force in a number of countries. New Zealand has legislation to cover this, as does Great Britain. 
The third significant measure dealt with by the Bill is the introduction of offences for temporary entrants and prohibited immigrants who engage in employment in Australia without authority. At present, visitors to Australia give an undertaking at the time of visa issue that they will not work in Australia, but it is not an offence for them to engage subsequently in employment. Similarly, it is not an offence for a prohibited immigrant to work in Australia. Most prohibited immigrants apprehended by departmental officials in the course of their investigations are either working or have been in employment in Australia. In addition, there is little doubt that many of the approximately 57,000 prohibited immigrants in Australia are working partly in order to sustain themselves. Some of what they earn is sent abroad to maintain families and relatives overseas. That is perhaps understandable but it represents a notable capital outflow instigated by people who are filling jobs which should otherwise be available to unemployed Australian residents. There must be limits to our community tolerance of such matters. 
Clause 4 of the Bill will provide for the grant of a temporary entry permit subject to conditions relating to work. Clause 19 will provide for an offence where a person contravenes a condition in respect of work or where a prohibited immigrant performs any work in Australia without the written permission of an authorised officer of the Department. The penalty for this offence will be a fine not exceeding $1,000. The Bill also provides in clause 19 for new offences where a person makes a false statement in connection with an application for work or uses a forged authority for work. These offences will attract a maximum penalty of $1,000. The introduction of these offences is indicative of the gravity with which the Government views this growing problem. I do point out that the Government's attitude is consistent with that in many other countries, including New Zealand and Canada where it is also an offence for unauthorised persons to engage in employment. 
The fourth significant change picks up the fact that the existing penalties in the Migration Act have remained unchanged since the legislation was passed in 1958. The Bill increases the penalties specified in the Act to bring them into line with current levels of penalties for equally serious offences in other Commonwealth legislation. The Bill also introduces three new penalties, two of which I have already referred tonamely, when carriers convey people to Australia without proper documentation and when temporary entrants and prohibited immigrants work without authority. The other penalty relates to deportees who return to Australia without authority. 
Honourable senators will recall that on 10 August 1978 the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  announced that from that date prohibited immigrants who had been deported from Australia for any reason would be barred from re-entering Australia for a period of five years, except in the most compelling circumstances. If deportees gain re-entry to Australia by subterfuge, it is only proper that they should be liable to a penalty as well as second deportation at their expense if possible. The Government cannot, in the public interest, tolerate breaches of our entry requirements and controls. I consider the penalty of $1,000 or six months imprisonment to be reasonable punishment and a prospective deterrent. Other provisions in the Bill are of a technical nature, designed to improve control mechanisms and to correct deficiencies. They do not introduce major changes in policy or vary the basic concepts currently embodied in the legislation. 
The dominance of international travel by fast jet aircraft and the large increase in the number of arrivals since the present Act was introduced have revealed a number of deficiencies in control procedures that were unknown or not exploitable in the more leisurely days of sea-travel or early international air travel. The demands on control procedures are aggravated in Australia because, due to our geographical position and airport curfews, arrivals and departures are not evenly spaced throughout the day, taking place within relatively short peak periods with necessarily brief tum-around periods. 
A number of these provisions arose out of the recommendations of a management review which reported on its investigation of immigration policies and procedures in July of last year. The review conducted by a consultant, the Public Service Board and the Department, examined problems confronting the Department and their causes, and evaluated options for changes to the Migration Act. The Government believes that the Bill will provide for a considerable increase in control capacity while new immigration legislation is being developed. These are measures which deserve, and I believe will enjoy, bipartisan support. The impact will not be discriminatory and nor is that the intent. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
-The amendments which we are now considering overlap with other amendments we will be dealing with later and centre on the objection which the Opposition has mentioned in the motion which it moved last night as an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. The Opposition sought the creation of a single component force. I will try to cover the matters which have been raised in a way which might enable us to simply refer to the debate we have had on subsequent amendments. 
There is no disagreement between the Government and the Opposition on one of the fundamental points made by  Senator Button,  namely, that it is important that people should be able to enter the police force as a career. I will be explaining why the Government believes that that is achieved by this legislation. It is quite clear that the morale of the force and, indeed, the sorts of people who are attracted into the force, are affected by the sort of considerations mentioned by  Senator Button.  I assure him and, indeed other honourable senators and the existing police forces that these are matters of concern to the Government. 
I noted too,  Senator Button's  comments about not liking the idea of civil guards. I do no more than note it. It may assist his Western Australian colleague,  Senator Mcintosh,  to respond to the views which have been put to him by the Western Australian branch of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. The Government's reason for not picking up what was not a recommendation of  Sir Robert  Mark, but something which he suggested might be given consideration, has already been explained, I think, both in this chamber and in the other place. But it is basic to government policy for the Bill that it should be what is called a two-component force. We have modified the suggestion, after giving it consideration as requested by  Sir Robert  Mark, that civil guards do protective service functions for a number of reasons. The Government would not be able to retain the thousand or so Commonwealth policemen who broadly could be said to be engaged in the sorts of duties which are described and then to employ an additional 1,000 civil guards. That would not be a sensible approach to the matter and certainly would be most costly. If we had faced the prospect of turning over such work to civil guards and if we thought that was an acceptable solution, of necessity it would have put at risk a very large number of jobs which obviously, would not be the wish of the Government. More importantly, the Government required a police protective security function to continue for such areas as defence, munitions and other security risk government installations, embassies and official residences. It is very easy to downgrade the importance and the sensitivity of that sort of work but if honourable senators reflect on it a little, they will see that there are aspects which might be called the 'guarding' function which go to the very serious and important responsibilities of the Federal Government. It is responsible for the security of foreign diplomatic personnel. Honourable senators will know that that is not a token matter any more. We are mercifully free from many incidents taking place but there have been incidents involving foreign diplomats. That tends to underline the significance and importance of that work and why it ought to be done by people who are responsible to government rather than a body of some private nature. 
I think there are important career questions which arise in the point raised by  Senator Button.  Some people might be quite happy to be in that position but others obviously would want more job mobility, and I will come to that in a moment. In fact the Government decided to provide general mobility between the two components. I do not wish to discuss in detail provisions of the Bill which are not before us. However, clauses  25  and  26  of the Bill provide for mobility between the two components subject to the usual principles of competence and qualifications. Of course, those principles would apply internally anyway in the manner in which people would be transferred into other sorts of work. But I direct the Committee 's attention to those two clauses. 
I also direct the Committee's attention to clause  73  which relates to the Government's decision to provide preferential opportunity of mobility between components for present police as against recruits. If someone who is already in one of the components wishes to apply for a job in another he will receive preference against an outside applicant. This provision underlies the Government's wish to meet the sorts of needs that were raised by  Senator Button.  Training opportunities will also be provided, as was indicated in the second reading speech, to enable people to achieve competence and qualifications to enable transfer to various jobs that they might wish to undertake. 
These are the fundamental reasons why the Government resists the Opposition's amendments of this sort. Ministerial assurances were given that job career prospects and terms and conditions of service would not be at risk. The Government believes that this objective is achieved by the provisions to which I have referred. The Government does not intend a lower status for one component but a different function and the allocation of detailed functions and personnel to components will be a matter to be determined by the Commissioner. For that reason the Government will be opposing the amendment to clause  6,  which is the clause before the Committee at the moment. 

 Senator Jessop suggested a course of action which I think is very sensible. I have before me the matters which he has raised on behalf of the South Australian Police Officers Association. I will respond to the matter he raised but I will not necessarily advert to the points he made because they are fundamental points which have already been raised in debate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  7  agreed to. 
Clause  8  (Functions). 
The Government does not accept the amendment to this clause. Clause 8 deals with the provision of police services. In the view of the Government this is an operational matter between commissioners rather than a matter to be dealt with between politicians. It relates to the provision of services in relation to a Commonwealth place in a State, being services by way of the investigation of offences against the laws of that State. We believe these sorts of arrangements are most suitably made by commissioners. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Powers and duties of members referred to in paragraph 6(d) ). 
This is the second area where there is a substantial difference of viewpoint between the Government and the Opposition with respect to the shape of this Bill. In this area of the relationship between the Minister and the Commissioner, the Government has accepted the recommendation of  Sir Robert  Mark that administratively a police force should be seen to be accountable to government, and operationally it should be seen to be as free as possible from political influence. It is provided in the Bill that the Commissioner should be operationally independent and administratively accountable to the Minister and the elected Government. Because of that difference of approach, the Government does not accept the amendment put forward by the Opposition. Clause 13(1) provides:  the Commissioner has the general administration of and control of the operations to the Australian Federal Police. 
Sub-section (2) provides: 
The Minister may, after obtaining and considering the advice of the Commissioner and of the Secretary, give written directions to the Commissioner with respect to the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police. 
As I said in the second reading debate last night, in my view, that difference accords with the general public view in Australia as to how the police force should operate; namely, that the police should be responsible for the actual operation of the force and that the Government should simply determine the policy and not get involved in particular cases. 
A number of other matters were raised, not in Committee, but in the second reading debate.  Senator Messner  addressed himself to matters that were dealt with in the House of Representatives also, and in particular, the question of the privacy of individuals. The Minister representing the Attorney-General in the other place clarified the position in respect of privacy of individuals by informing the House of Representatives that he proposed to give written direction on general policy relating to dissemination of information which will protect the privacy of individuals, and that he would table that direction. He said further that the direction would be revised in the light of Government consideration of the Law Reform Commission report on privacy. In my view, the Minister's statement is helpful in alleviating at least some of the concern which has been expressed about this clause. The amendment generally is opposed by the Government. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 14 (General Orders and General Instructions). 
I formally oppose this amendment for the reasons which carried much more persuasive sway a little earlier. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 and 16- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners). 
I had no doubt about the sincerity of  Senator Evans's  arguments until his last sentence. Having been assured in an earlier statement by  Senator Evans  that nothing he was putting forward was a Labor Party plot- a thought which had not crossed my mind- the rather flowery compliment has left me with very considerable doubts about everything he has put forward. However, he is correct in saying that this is not an area where the Government and the Opposition are saying that the effect should be different. The Government takes the view that the reference to the GovernorGeneral in these clauses is to the GovernorGeneral acting with the advice of the Executive Council, in accordance with section 16A of the Acts Interpretation Act, which was quoted by  Senator Evans.  I must say that until I heard that argument I had never thought of  Senator Evans  as a belt and braces man. It seems to me that not only is he seeking here both a belt and a set of braces, he is also trying to sew his trousers to his shirt. The Government simply does not believe that these amendments are necessary and for that reason opposes them. 
Amendments negatived. 
The Government does not read this clause in the same way as does the Opposition. The Government regards this amendment as placing a limitation on the freedom of the Commissioner to resign. We believe that the clause as it stands, that is, without the provision, permits a Commissioner to resign without the limitation that the Opposition is seeking which would restrict the effectiveness of his resignation to one that is accepted by the Minister. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 18 to 21- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
Clause 22 (Termination of Appointment). 
My understanding is that this is a fairly standard provision for this level of appointment. In fact, if one did not have this provision the Commissioner would be dismissable at pleasure. The Bill provides that he can be dismissed only for specified grounds, which are misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. There are then prohibitions about him engaging in paid employment outside the duties of his office and so on. It is a provision which essentially restricts rather than enlarges the Government's ability to take action against the Commissioner. 
I understand there is no precedent for right of appeal in these sorts of circumstances. The Government does not believe it should be inserted. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. Clause 32 is intended only to specify the coordinating regulatory agencies of government which are involved in determining the government employment position for negotiation with the police associations and for arbitration proceedings. I hasten to add that, as  Senator Button  surmised, it is envisaged that the usual process of negotiation of agreements will proceed. The associations will be intimately involved in that process. The associations do not fit into this provision, which is meant to indicate which agencies of government are involved in determining the Government 's position. 
There is no way, of course, that the role of the associations could be removed by their not being mentioned in this clause. The appeal provisions ensure that if the Government proceeded in a unilateral manner there would be a recourse and that obviously would not be a sensible way for the Government to proceed. In practice, what  Senator Button  referred to will occur. It is not necessary to amend this clause to achieve it. The Commissioner is always free and able to advise on any matter affecting the police. In the light of this amendment we sought advice from the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. Its advice was that it was better not to have the Commissioner sharing statutory responsibility for the pay of the members of the police so as not to affect his major responsibility for command and discipline of them. 
The Government opposes the amendment. The appeal provisions are provided under clause 40 and I will be speaking perhaps at slightly greater length to that clause, lt is the object of this legislation not to vary the appeal rights which at present exist for the Commonwealth Police Force and the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. I will explain that further under clause 40. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 36A (Establishment of Promotions Appeal Boards). 
Clause 40 deals generally with the question of regulations which may make provision for various things. It also covers appeals. My advice is and the Government's view is that as the Bill is not creating or extending new police powers, it preserves the status quo of the present two police forces in this matter, and that is the way it should be. In other words, there is no proposition in this Bill to change the appelate rights of policemen as they exist at present. As far as promotions are concerned, the question of appeals will be dealt with by regulation, including the establishment of a promotions appeal board as provided for in paragraph (c) of this clause. These regulations are, of course, subject to review and disallowance by this chamber. 
In the area of discipline, the appeal provisions will be in regulations, including the establishment of a Disciplinary Board provided for in paragraph  (f).  That provision is the same as that laid down in respect of the present two forces. All the appeals in respect of transfer, retirement and retrenchment are provided for in clauses 38 and 39. The provisions in the Bill are the same as those in respect of the present two forces, and it is not proposed by the Government that that situation should be changed. With respect of those areas, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  advised the House of Representatives that the Government will give serious consideration to the possibility of the provision of an appeal to an appropriate tribunal, not necessarily the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 41 to 43- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 44 (Continuation of hearing of matters). 
The Parliamentary Counsel advises me that the word shall' was changed to 'may' in this clause so as to give a new judge of the Tribunal a discretion to take new evidence and argument as well as the existing evidence and argument before the judge who is unable to continue because of, say, ill health. The Government regards the section in its present form as an improvement on the provisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act on which it is modelled. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 45 agreed to. 
Clause 46 (Determinations by Tribunals).  Senator EVANS  (Victoria) (2.42)-I move: 
Page 1 5, clause 46, line 39, after 'association ', insert 'or a member aggrieved by a decision under section 38 or 39'. Page 15, clause 46, line 44, leave out 'Governor-General or of the Commissioner', insert 'Governor-General in Council '. 
Page 16, clause 46, lines 1 and 2, leave out 'demotions, retirements or dismissals', insert 'or demotions '. 
The first amendment relates to questions concerning rights of appeal. The Opposition believes that not only an association as here provided should have rights of appeal, but also a member aggrieved by a decision under clause 38 or clause 39. That is a reference to persons caught up by the retirement and the retrenchment provisions of the Bill. 
The second amendment relating to clause 46 is one that is consequential upon amendments which have been moved previously. It relates to the identification of the Governor-General as distinct from the Governor-General in Council. In the amendment to clause 46 (3) (a) it is also sought to remove t'ie reference to the Commissioner. The clause would then make it possible for in fact appeals to be heard by the proposed Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal in respect of transfers which have been made by the Commissioner. 
The third matter in clause 46- again a very important one, not in terms of the length of the language but in terms of the effect it would have- is the amendment to clause 46 (3) (b). This amendment would have the effect of giving appeal rights to the Arbitral Tribunal in respect of retirements and dismissals, which is not presently the case. I think the reason why there should be appeal rights in these areas has been sufficiently canvassed in earlier debate. 
In my comments to clause 40 I canvassed the points which have been raised in respect of this clause. The amendment numbered 46 is not acceptable. It proposes that there should be appeals to the Tribunal in respect of decisions made under clauses 38 and 39. The right of appeal exists already in the same form in the present legislation governing the police force. If there were a wrongful retirement or dismissal under clauses 38 and 39, a member could test it out in ordinary court. The Government will, as I have previously indicated, give serious consideration to the possibility of the provision of an appeal to an appropriate tribunal, not necessarily the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal, to which clause 46 refers. The principles relating to the amendment numbered 47 have been dealt with earlier in argument. The Government opposes the proposed amendment to clause 48. It has not agreed to the previous amendment seeking appeal to the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal under clauses 38 and 39. It is therefore necessary for the words that the amendment proposes to leave out to remain. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 47 to 55- by leave- taken together. 
-On 10  May  1979  (Hansard,  pages  1 793-4)  Senator Sibraa  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question without notice concerning private medical benefits funds reducing the level of benefit to  75  per cent, because of the number of claims that have been made. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
A number of registered organisations have rules which allow them to reduce the level of medical benefits, upon a contributor having been paid benefits up to specified annual limits. 
The Government is concerned with the effect of rules which restrict medical benefits, particularly in relation to the chronically ill. Emanating from this concern, a comprehensive examination of the rules of registered organisations is being made to identify those rules that discriminate against people in some way or other. Consequent upon this examination being finalised, the organisations concerned will be asked to amend their rules in line with the Government's policy. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The documents incorporated in  Hansard  referred to matters which were alleged to have taken place in 1971 and 1972 before my Department was created. I do not believe it appropriate that officers should undertake the lengthy enquiries necessary to establish the facts, which may well be impossible in the circumstances. 
I would confirm, however that Apatula housing as referred to in the question by  Senator Cavanagh  is manufactured by an Aboriginal Company established at Finke in the Northern Territory and that Apatula houses have been used in a number of places in Central Australia. The company has recently completed construction of a hostel in Alice Springs for Aboriginal Hostels Ltd. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply given by the Prime Minister to question number 1335 (Senate  Hansard,  pages 1608-9, 2 May 1979). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In recent years exploratory consultations have been held with a number of Aboriginal communities in northern and central Australia about their interest in broadcasting. A survey of training needs is being undertaken with the Australian Film and Television School before allocating money to the training of Aboriginal broadcasters. 
Aboriginal broadcasting services are being considered by a working party of officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, Postal and Telecommunications Department, Special Broadcasting Service and Australian Broadcasting Commission. A number of choices, including those suggested by  Senator Ryan,  are under consideration, but a report has not yet been received. The Postal and Telecommunications Department has also informed me that draft planning proposals for public broadcasting stations are in preparation as a result of representations from the Nguiu Shire Council ( Bathurst Is.) and Milingimbi, Northern Territory. 
Australian Broadcasting Tribunal  (Question No. 1S49) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Expenditure incurred by the Tribunal on inquiries relating to the licensing of television stations for the period I July 1 978 to 30 April 1 979, was as follows: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) It is correct that under Section 7 (2) of the Postal Services Act 1 975 the Postal Commission is required to have regard to the special needs for postal services of people who reside or carry on business outside the cities. In addition, however, Section 76 of the Act requires the Postal Commission to operate its services as efficiently and economically as practicable. Sufficient revenue must be earned in a financial year by the Commission to meet all costs properly chargeable to revenue and to fund from internal resources at least 50 per cent of its capital expenditure. 
Although postage rates are determined largely by the requirements of the Act regarding the Postal Commission's financial objectives, the present charges allow for a considerable element of subsidy of country postal services. Postal charges have to be balanced in such a way as to retain as high a level as possible of customer usage within the more profitable metropolitan areas while, at the same time, recognising the particular difficulty of people in the country. The 
Postal Commission estimates that postal services for residents of rural areas are being subsidised to the extent of about $1 5m per annum by the residents of the more densely populated areas. 
It is true that as a result of the increases in postal charges from 1 January 1979, country newspaper postage rates rose by more than the 1 1 per cent increase in the basic postage rates which applied from 1 July 1978. Most country newspapers, however, are eligible for posting under the registered publications service and qualify for Category 'A' postage rates which are about one quarter of the postage rates which would apply if full postage were payable. Furthermore, many publishers of registered publications had their postage costs substantially reduced in October 1 977 following the transfer of some publications from Category 'C to categories ' A ' or ' B '. 
About one third of the articles posted under Category 'A' are country newspapers and on this basis the average subsidy on this mail financed by other users of the service is the equivalent of 1 2.8 cents per newspaper. 
To further benefit those who post publications, such as country newspapers, in bundles, 1 have recently approved the restoration of the maximum weight limit for registered publications to the former level of 13 kilograms. Consequently new rates for postings of registered publications weighing between 750 grams and 13 kilograms were introduced on 1 May 1979. 
As indicated above the present postage rates for country newspapers allow for a considerable level of subsidy from other users of postal services. In the circumstances it is not considered that postal charges discriminate against decentralised areas or work against decentralisation measures. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No request has been received from the Chief Minister seeking a transfer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Territory to Northern Territory Government. 
The Memorandum of Understanding in respect of financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and selfgoverning Northern Territory provides that 'overall responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination in respect of Aboriginal affairs will remain with the Commonwealth Government which may provide finance for special measures to assist the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory as appropriate '. 
In line with the Memorandum of Understanding, however, there has been a progressive transfer to the Northern Territory Government of State-type functions which were previously administered by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
The Acting Minister for Transport has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
The predominantly white Boeing, a Boeing 727/100, was owned by the Fluor Corporation, of the United States. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I am informed that the accident occurred three kilometres north of Aileron on 1 March 1979. 
and (3) I am informed that Senior Constable Phillip Keith Dredge was involved in the accident and that a breathaliser test proved negative. 
A coronial inquiry is to be held on 25 June. 
1 understand that  Mr White's  widow has placed the matter in the hands of the Central Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service and that any claim for compensation will be dealt with in the usual way. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Northern Territory Government has indicated that it has no further extensions of town boundaries in contemplation within the period of the freeze over unalienated Crown land. The only exception to this would be arrangements relating to the McArthur River development which are under discussion between the Northern Land Council, the Borroloola Council and the Northern Territory Government. 
The extension of town boundaries has had the effect of preventing some Aboriginal land claims under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. Aboriginal requirements within the town areas will continue to be determined by the Northern Territory Government on a needs basis. 
Discussions between the N.T. Government and the Land Councils, particularly in respect of land claims that were affected by the extension of town boundaries, are underway with a view to satisfying the requirements of both parties. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No specific committee exists which investigates and advises on the requirements of Aboriginal Housing. The Department of Housing and Construction provides specialist advice in this field to Aboriginal organisations and to the Department. In the Northern Territory an Aboriginal Consultative Group has been established with representatives from a number of disciplines of study. In addition to this there are, within the Department of Construction, project managers who specialise in Aboriginal housing work. 
Prosecutions under Student Assistance Act  (Question No. 1720) 
-On 7 March 1979,  Senator Gietzelt  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
Is the Minister aware that a large number of public telephones are constantly out of order? I specifically advise him that many public telephones in the Sydney area have been vandalised and made inoperative and have not been repaired for a considerable period. Can the Minister indicate what priority Telecom Australia gives to the repair of public telephone facilities in view of the announced increase in profitability of that statutory authority? Will the Minister establish whether Telecom has given consideration to installing vandal-proof telephones of the sort widely used in the United States of America? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Telecom Australia assigns a high priority to the repair of public coin telephones known to be out of order. Regular checks on the condition of public telephones are carried out but for the most part the Commission is necessarily dependent on reports from the general public to learn that units are unserviceable. Telecom believes that in many instances, and particularly where there is another public telephone nearby, a faulty unit may not be attended to for some dme simply because it has not been reported out of order. 
To provide early information back to the service centre on faulty public coin telephones, Telecom is currently introducing newly developed fault detection equipment which will automatically monitor the performance of public telephone equipment in all capital cities and suburban areas. The data provided by this new equipment enables staff at the exchange to quickly identify public telephones which are faulty and prompt repair action can then be taken. 
Insofar as the introduction of sturdier public telephone facilities is concerned, a seven-year program to modernise the public telephone service was commenced in 1976. As part of this extensive program, all older type vandal prone instruments are to be replaced with a particularly strong and more vandal resistant instrument. This instrument, called the CT3, is one of the strongest and most advanced of its type, lt was selected from world-wide tenders and is manufactured to the exacting requirements of Telecom to suit Australian conditions. 
It is considered that the wider installation of the CT3 telephone and public telephone monitor equipment will significantly alleviate the problems which have been experienced in the past with regard to both the incidence of public telephone faults and delays in restoring affected installations. 
-On 29 May 1979  (Hansard,  pages 2219 and 2220)  Senator Young  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question without notice concerning the loss of entitlement to certain Commonwealth health benefits, by patients of doctors whose names had been removed by the State authorities from the South Australian Register of Medical Practitioners for failure to pay the required annual practising fee. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
The benefits involved were Commonwealth medical benefits, Commonwealth pharmaceutical benefits and nursing home and domiciliary nursing care benefits. 
The Deputy Crown Solicitor in Adelaide confirmed that Commonwealth legislation precluded payment of these benefits in relation to patients of doctors who were not registered in either South Australia or another State or Territory. 
It is regretted that some patients did lose their entitlement to the benefits during the period the doctors were not registered. No option had been open to the Commonwealth once the State authorities removed the names from the State Register. As a consequence of this action the doctors were then not encompassed by the definition of 'medical practitioner' in the Commonwealth legislation that authorises certain benefits for patients of registered doctors. 
It was in order to minimise the effect on patients that the Acting Minister for Health issued a press statement on IS May 1979 listing the names of doctors concerned, so that their patients could be aware that Commonwealth benefits were not payable. 
-On 29 May 1979  (Hansard,  page 2217),  Senator Evans  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health a question without notice concerning the accuracy of a report in the Melbourne  Age  regarding the cost of medical services. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
The report in the  Age  newspaper on 29 May 1979 in regard to the possible cost to an uninsured person of treatment for an episode of illness in which the patient received a number of medical services, each costing less than $20, is essentially correct. While a course of treatment might involve a number of services, after 1 September 1979, the Commonwealth medical benefit will only be payable to the extent that the Schedule fee for each individual medical service exceeds $20. Accordingly, in the case of an illness requiring a number of services, each with a Schedule fee of $20 or less, no Commonwealth medical benefit would be payable. While the patient will be responsible for medical costs up to $20 for each Schedule service, there will be a guarantee against higher cost items of medical service in that the Commonwealth will meet all except $20 of Schedule fees above $20. 
There will, however, be no change in the current arrangements for pensioners with health benefit cards and persons classified by their doctors as disadvantaged. 
In my speech to Parliament on 24 May 1979 announcing the changes, I pointed out that those who elect to remain uninsured will pay the full cost out of their own pockets where the Schedule fee is $20 or less. It was for this reason that I went on to say: 
The best advice I can give such people is that they should weigh up their personal circumstances carefully and decide whether it is in their best financial interest to remain uninsured or to take out medical insurance with a private fund '. 
The Government has been forced to introduce this and other measures in the health insurance area because it cannot afford to continue to subsidise health costs at the present rate if the Budget deficit is to be kept at an acceptable level. The measures are a vital component of the Government's overall Budget strategy. 
I will seek to ascertain those facts from the Minister for Transport and will let the honourable senator have a reply. 
I will ask the Minister for Transport to give consideration to the matters raised by the honourable senator and to let him have a reply. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for reply. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport for a reply. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply to Question No. 1074 given by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. 
Business and Consumer Affairs: Transfer of Powers to the States (Question No. 1096) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer to Senate Question No. 1074 provided by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report of the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled The Long Distance Road Haulage Industry'. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the recess. 
-The Minister for Transport has advised me that in preparing official authority documents for the successful tenderers some variations were made to the wording of the clauses which had appeared in the tender schedule. The variations were designed to express more clearly the conditions of the authority. They are not regarded as changing the conditions of the tender, but simply as expressing the conditions more explicitly in the form of a legal instrument. 
The honourable senator's question is probably referring to recent publicity surrounding a variation in the clause relating to transfer of the authorities. The tender document included wording to the effect that the authorities were not transferable. This was designed to ensure that the Commonwealth's interests were protected and that transfers could not be effected without approval. In the authorities which have been issued this clause has been amplified to include the words 'without the approval of the secretary'. Authorities issued under the provisions of the Airports (Business Concessions) Act 1959 have always been regarded as transferable assets. It is therefore common practice for such authorities to contain a condition prohibiting sale without the prior approval of the Commonwealth. The previous authority held by Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd contained such a provision, and clause 6 of the advertised conditions of the relevant tender was intended as a similar limitation on transfer. 
I am relieved that  Senator Baume  has been joined by another person who will pursue the tobacco companies with evangelical zeal. As a recent convert, I can only say: 'Hallelujah, brother' and refer the question to the Minister for reply. 
Consistent with my own philosophy, I am very interested in the question asked by the honourable senator. As it is a serious matter and since we have had a longstanding commitment to the two-airline agreement, I believe I should refer it to  Mr Nixon  for consideration and reply. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 I present the Remuneration Tribunal Review  1 979 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Administrative Services relating to the report. This report was distributed to honourable senators during the recess. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Transport on the report on oil spills by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. 
The acting Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Since the answer to Question No. 1 126 TAA had advised that the information previously provided was incorrect and that on 24 December 1978 a BrisbaneMaryboroughBundaberg flight was operated and departed from Brisbane at 12.13 p.m. TAA has advised that the flight departure times were: 
Brisbane-Bundaberg: 12.44 p.m.; BrisbaneGladstone: 8.46 a.m. 
No direct Brisbane-Bundaberg flight was operated; Brisbane-Gladstone: 9.45 a.m. 
Brisbane-Bundaberg: 12.09 p.m.; BrisbaneGladstone: 8.33 a.m. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Inhabited islands with telephone services are Thursday, Moa, Horn, Hammond, Prince of Wales, Booby, Friday. Inhabited islands without telephone services are Badu, Boigu, Coconut, Darnley, Dauan, Mabuiag, Moa (Kubin Village), Murray, Saibai, Stephens, Warraber, Yam, Yorke. 
Installation of a VHF telephone system to service the 13 islands is in progress and subject to satisfactory delivery of equipment the task should be completed between March and June 1980. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are no telephone facilities connecting the Lockhart River community to the telephone network. However, the office of the aboriginal community has an outlet via radio to the State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement network based on Thursday Island. The hospital has access by radio to the Royal Flying Doctor Service at Cairns for medical calls and telegrams. 
A number of Outpost stations have been connected to the telephone network on a trial basis through the RFDS base station at Cairns. It is understood that the RFDS has no objection to Lockhart River community joining this trial but a request to participate would need to be made by the State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. 
Telecom is currently surveying the whole problem of telephone facilities for aboriginal communities and has commenced a program designed to provide standard telephone service for a number of communities both in Queensland and the Northern Territory. Firm plans for Lockhart River have not yet been made but it is quite a remote area in which there are other communication needs which must also be catered for. It will be sometime before standard telephone service is available in the area. 
The Acting Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The original Financial Directive, issued in 1948, required that where possible a dividend equal to the then long term bond rate be paid. 
The Acting Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
TAA has indicated that its advices to the Queensland Press during the pre-Christmas period were handled by its Brisbane based public relations officer. It is not possible at present to specifically confirm that he became aware of the error or that he took corrective action because some months later he left TAA for promotion elsewhere. 
TAA advise further that, in answer to press queries concerning Christmas bookings and capacity in the period leading up to Christmas, the correct advice that seating was freely available would have been tendered by staff. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Automatic Data Processing (ADP) equipment industry in Australia comprises two sectors: a small manufacturing sector (6 companies) employing some 500 persons and producing mainly cathode ray tube display terminals (known as CRT's) and other peripheral equipment a large service and consulting sector, mainly concerned with supplying and installing large computer systems (including software) of overseas origin. Large international companies e.g. IBM, Digital Equipment, Facom and Honeywell, constitute this sector of the industry. 
In its report on ADP Equipment and Parts of 1 8 August 1 976 the Industries Assistance Commission (IAC) found that there was little prospect for the production of large scale computer systems in Australia and that these units would continue to be imported. The IAC considered that the local manufacture of ADP equipment would probably continue to be confined to small peripheral equipment. 
The Government's decision, announced in November 1 976, on that report was to maintain the existing 24 per cent tariff on CRT's and to provide a bounty over a seven year period for most other ADP equipment. The bounty is equivalent to 20 per cent of value added in Australia by ADP manufacturers in each of the first three years of operation, decreasing to 15 per cent in each of the next two years and 7.5 percent in the remaining two years. 
Because the industry is subject to rapid technological change the Government also decided that the assistance accorded the industry be reviewed in five years, instead of the seven years recommended by the Commission, and that consideration would be given to including the software sector in the review. 
The Government's decision on the type and level of assistance to be provided to the manufacture of computers in Australia takes into account the need to provide positive assistance to the industry to plan for the future, to maximise the use of computers in Australia and to allow users access to the latest and best computer technology at or near world prices both to the benefit of Australian industry and the community as a whole. 
Bounty payments, which commenced on 29 March 1977, amounted to some $600,000 in 1977-78 and in last year's budget $ 1 , 500,000 was appropriated for this purpose. 
The Australian computer industry is also assisted by the Government's offset policy which was introduced in 1970 with the objective of narrowing the gap in technology and industrial efficiency between Australian manufacturing industries and those of highly developed overseas countries. As a result, major direct technological benefits to the computer industry have occurred through improvements in software developments, computer terminal production technology, introduction of high precision machinery and the manufacture of computer components. 
To date, offsets in excess of $60m have been awarded against purchases of imported computers providing considerable benefit to the computer industry. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No specific procedures have been laid down for the conduct of an election at large. Were such a situation ever to eventuate the Australian Electoral Office would be required to follow the procedures laid down by whatever legislation was applicable at that time. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) Telecom has advised that a review of staff requirements is being carried out following a decline in traffic at the Northam Manual Assistance Centre. The fall in traffic handled at the exchange is due to the extension of Subscriber Trunk Dialling facilities in the area. The staffing review has not yet been completed but a reduction of three temporary employees is expected. The five temporary staff at the exchange have been advised of this possibility and four of these employees have already indicated their willingness to accept employment elsewhere. They can be placed in Perth if necessary. There are no firm plans to close the Assistance Centre in 1981. However, a nationwide review is being undertaken to develop plans for Manual Assistance Centres throughout Australia and the future of Northam, along with other centres, will be considered as pan of the exercise. The review will be very comprehensive and the final long-term plan is expected to be completed towards the end of 1979. A significant consideration in developing the long-term plan will be the extent to which it is possible to retain employment opportunities in country areas. 
Nevertheless, the extension of Subscriber Trunk Dialling has resulted in a reduction in operator-handled calls and, for this reason, it will not be practicable to retain all of the existing Manual Assistance Centres on a long-term basis. 
One month's formal notice will be given to the temporary employees at Northam. The criteria to determine which staff should be retrenched first is length of service and their associated level of efficiency. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The then Department of Services and Property became aware of the two occasions on which hire cars in respect of  Mrs Sinclair  were charged to the Commonwealth following receipt of the accounts. 
) November 1 973; July 1 974. 
$20.77; $64.93. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources has stated that the Minister for Primary Industry paid the accounts personally (see  Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1 709). My Department has no information about the payment of the accounts. 
The Acting Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
24March 1979. 
(a) 0521 hours. 
The Minister for Transport approved the departure of the flight from Brisbane to Sydney before the end of the curfew to avoid hardship and inconvenience which would have been suffered otherwise by the passengers intending to take the flight. On that day, Brisbane Airport was to be closed from 0600 hours to 1 300 hours and Sydney Airport from 1 300 hours to 1 700 hours because of an industrial dispute. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Proceeds from the sale were paid into consolidated revenue. 
Expenditure on Soil Conservation (Question No. 1670) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Investigations by the Commonwealth Police, Victorian Police, Arson Squad and Metropolitan Fire Brigade, Melbourne have been unable to determine the cause of this fire so the cause has been recorded as ' unknown '. 
The reported value of damage to the building was $325,000. 
The following are the details of the contents of the building destroyed or damaged and their estimated values- 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) As at 3 1 May 1979 there were 863 staff employed in the Department. Of this number 787 were employed under the Public Service Act whilst the remainder of 76 were employed on work in Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. 
28.6 per cent of the total staff employed at 31 May 1 979 were Aboriginals. 
In 1978 the Government announced the National Employment Strategy for Aboriginals to improve employment and training opportunities for Aboriginals in both the public and private sectors. The Department's policy on the employment of Aboriginals has been developed in the context of the Strategy. 
The Public Service Board has issued guidelines on the implementation of the Strategy in the Australian Public Service within the overall principle of open competitive merit recruitment. In accordance with these guidelines the Department has been undertaking a review of those positions where the ability to communicate effectively with Aboriginals or a knowledge or understanding of Aboriginal culture is relevant to the effective performance of the duties. Positions where these special abilities are relevant to the duties have generally been advertised as open to persons inside and outside the Service. The Department is making every effort to ensure that Aboriginal people are aware of such employment opportunities in the Department by advertising the positions by means of a Departmental vacancies notice which is widely distributed to all Aboriginal communities and organisations. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Ngalkirlangu Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd, was incorporated on 14 September 1978 under the Northern Territory Companies Act 1963. 
The matter of transfer of cattle has been a point of discussion between DAA and interested Aboriginals for about two years. On a number of occasions it was explained that transfer would be subject to the establishment of a Land Trust and Commonwealth approval for the handover of assets associated with the cattle project. Those assets included cattle. 
No. 
It is hoped to transfer the assets before I July 1 979. 
No. 
The Commonwealth does not intend to retain ownership. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The 1979-80 program of equipment purchases by the Australian Survey Office forms part of the considerations leading up to the August Budget. It is not possible, therefore, to comment on details at this stage. The program, together with the estimated expenditure, will be included in the Departmental explanations prepared for the Senate Estimates Committee. Copies of these explanations will be distributed to all honourable senators. 
The emphasis in equipment purchases by the Australian Survey Office is currently on replacement rather than expansion of existing facilities. Where additional equipment is purchased, it is for services not generally available from small business firms in the mapping and surveying industry. Replacement equipment is limited to items essential to support on-going activities of the Survey Office. 
3 ) The funds available for the engagement of private surveyors depend on the overall Commonwealth requirements for surveys. These in turn are determined by budgetary considerations and are outside the responsibility of the Department of Administrative Services. Accordingly, the question of action by the Department does not arise. 
Aboriginal Land: Access by Public Servants (Question No. 1717) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Aboriginal reserves became Aboriginal land when deeds of grant were handed to Aboriginal Land Trusts in September 1978. In respect of entry on to Aboriginal land in the course of duty, public servants are required to have a permit, issued by the Chief Minister, in accordance with the Northern Territory Aboriginal Land Ordinance 1 978. 
The same controls on entry to special purpose leases or pastoral leases apply irrespective of whether the leaseholders are Aboriginals or others. Written permits are not required. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics Bulletin on foreign ownership and control of accredited advertising agencies in Australia, 1974-7S reported that S0.9 per cent of total turnover was accounted for through advertising agencies which had some degree of foreign ownership. Some of these agencies are predominantly Australian owned. There is little foreign ownership in supply houses which service advertising agencies, in advertising media or in advertising by retailers. 
Some public utilities and statutory authorities, including those mentioned in the question, have selected advertising agencies which are wholly or partly foreign owned. 
1 understand that, while there is no specific regulation requiring Canadian public authorities to use Canadian advertising agencies, that practice is followed in most cases. It might bc noted, however, that the Canadian position has been greatly influenced by the proximity of the United States and the strength of competition from advertising agencies and suppliers based in that country. 
I have no authoritative information on the comparison the honourable member makes. 
Whether or not the Government should adopt the Canadian practice is a matter of Government policy and one which I would not wish to canvass by way of Parliamentary Question. 
Defence Force: Trainee Technicians (Question-No. 1617) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Control of metal fatigue and corrosion is a continuing maintenance function exercised by aircraft operators throughout the world with metal aircraft of all types. Corrosion control is a variable and unpredictable component of aircraft maintenance throughout the economic life of all aircraft. It is a simple fact that all metal aircraft such as the Boeing 727 and Douglas DC9 suffer corrosion problems in service and these can only be dealt with by early detection and application of corrosion control measures. Despite the millions of dollars spent on research on aluminium alloys no methods have yet been developed which can prevent corrosion economically in the aeroplane environment. The same situation applies to aircraft engines. Control of metal fatigue is similarly maintained by a process of early detection and rectification. 
Rigorous inspection, overhaul periods and component retirement lives are set by the aircraft and engine manufacturers. These must be approved by my Department and in the case of the local airlines, the manufacturers' recommended inspection intervals and overhaul periods are varied by my Department to suit Austraiian operating conditions, lt is generally conceded by the prime manufacturers and overseas airworthiness authorities that Australian standards are conservative in this regard. The intervals are specified in the airline maintenance manuals as well as in Departmental airworthiness directives. 
The Boeing 727 and Douglas DC9 aircraft are designed to fail-safe principles and thus are not finite life aircraft. The criterion which decides how long such aircraft can be kept in service is largely economic. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Department of Transport has no firm commitment to extend the existing Coffs Harbour aerodrome or to build any new facilities in the area. 
No airline operator has given a firm commitment to operate medium jet aircraft on routes involving Coffs Harbour aerodrome. 
I am not sure that I have the full gist of that question. Honourable senators did seem to ascend into some of  Senator Townley  's own flying dirty linen. I am not sure whether he wanted us to turn right or left at lights. 
I will direct  Senator Townley  's question to the Minister for Transport in the hope that the  Hansard  writer has heard more than I have. 
I understand from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that there are union officials who act as shift brokers for workers in that industry and that they make some personal profit for making these shift changes. Apparently it is a quite long standing practice in the industry. There is provision in the award for people to be able to exchange shifts, and procedures are laid down which permit that to happen. It involves the two parties being in agreement. This procedure has been formalised by Australia Post. The two parties are required to be in agreement. They sign an exchange form and get the signature of the approving officer. In fact this shift broking, as it is called, has developed over recent years, as has the taking of monetary rewards. The latter practice is not condoned by Australia Post and in fact is a breach, I understand, of the postal staff by-laws 19 and 20. Australia Post is trying to eradicate that practice within its work places. 
I think that that question probably should have been addressed to me as the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. However, having claimed the ball I am not able to field it. I will have to take the question on notice and seek an urgent reply for the honourable senator. I think that all honourable senators would be concerned about the privacy of their mail, and I will try to get a response, if not today then tomorrow morning. 
This is a matter which has been raised in the Senate on a number of occasions by  Senator Kilgariff  and by honourable senators opposite. I understand that the Minister for Transport will be announcing details of South Australia's national highway program in the near future. At the moment I do not have all the details. However I am told that the total allocation to South Australia by the Commonwealth for national highways construction in 1979-80 is to be $ 17.34m and that South Australia has announced that its estimated expenditure on construction works on the Stuart Highway between Bookaloo and the Northern Territory border during this financial year is to be $4.34m. That is a considerable increase on the amounts spent in recent years. I know that this announcement is welcomed by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  who has been urging the South Australian Government for some time to increase the level of funding for that highway. It is heartening to see that at last the South Australian Government has got off its tail. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
The ABC sought a special appropriation from the Government so that it could accept a formal invitation from the Organising Committee for the Games to undertake the role of Host Broadcaster. The Government has now agreed that additional funds be provided to the ABC for this purpose. 
On 4 June 1979,  Senator Gietzelt  asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Post and Telecommunications without notice: 
Are householders required to provide a receptacle for the reception of mail articles delivered by Australia Post? Can the Minister say whether householders are required to receive other than mail in their boxes? Does the householder have any redress in relation to such receptacles being filled with advertising material? Is the Minister aware of the growing resentment in the community at the unauthorised use of letter boxes by major business houses? Has the Government received any complaints from Australia Post about letter boxes being so filled with advertising junk that articles of mail cannot be properly delivered? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
If householders are to receive a street mail delivery, Australia Post requires that they provide on their premises a suitable receptacle for mail. It is not a requirement, however, that the receptacle be available for postal use only and the supervision and control of its use is the responsibility of the householder. Australia Post has received some complaints about the use of such receptacles for delivery of non-postal matter but has not brought the matter to the attention of the Government. 
-On 22 May 1979  Senator Sibraa  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications without notice; 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, ls the Minister aware of the provisions in the relevant British legislation which provide for a sufficiently popular sporting event to be declared a broadcast of national importance, thus preventing commercial television stations from monopolising any particular sporting event, for example, the Olympic Games or international cricket, at the expense of the British Broadcasting Corporation? Will the Federal Government consider introducing such changes to Australian legislation in order to protect the competitive position ofthe Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to sporting events? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am aware of British legislation which prevents exclusive television coverage of sporting events, declared to be of some importance, from being obtained by any one particular broadcasting authority. 
However, there is no proposal presently being considered by the Government to introduce similar measures in Australia. 
On 2 May 1979  Senator Townley  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications without notice; ls the Minister aware that in the United States of America the direct cost of selling stamps is 17c from each dollar received from the sale of stamps? ls the Minister able to say whether the cost of selling stamps in Australia is comparable with that in the United States? 
Will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to consider selling sheets of stamps at some discount to reduce the operating costs of this area of Australia Post? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Australia Post categorises the 'direct cost' of selling stamps as the stamp production cost and the cost of labour involved in stamp sales, including superannuation and furlough costs. On this basis, Australia Post's direct cost per dollar of postage stamp sales is about 1 3 cents. The basis for the cited 17 cents per dollar in the United States of America is not known. 
Australia Post has examined the suggestion of selling sheets of stamps at discount rates but considers it unlikely that economics could be realised through the introduction of such discounts. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
Yes. 
The Overseas Telecommunications Commission does issue a quarterly house journal called 'Contact' which, in its February 1 979 issue, dealt with Australian performing arts centres. The size of the budget and non-budget deficit is not affected by this activity, as OTC is not publicly funded. 
The following additional information is provided in response to the honourable senator's question: 
OTC is a commercially oriented organisation which in the financial year ended 1978 contributed almost $26 million in revenue to the Commonwealth through taxation and dividend payments. 
Its quarterly journal 'Contact' is issued to staff and customers as a community activity. The subject matter of the journal generally covers items related to OTC's activities such as space programs and locations where OTC facilities exist (e.g. Moree, Broome and Guam). Occasionally an item of general community and international interest- such as Australia 's performing arts centres- is used. 
All photographs in the issue of February 1979 were provided free of charge, as is invariably the case with other issues of 'Contact'. The Department of Foreign Affairs specifically sought 5,000 copies of the February issue for distribution at selected major overseas posts. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: - 
1 ) The decision to use the international satellite, Intelsat, for Australian Broadcasting Commission television program distribution in Western Australia has had no significant effect on the planned telecommunications network development for the Kimberley region. 
To meet trunk traffic growth requirements, Telecom Australia is currently studying the feasibility of expanding the Port Hedland-Broome-Derby-Wyndnam route by introducing an economic, solar cell powered microwave radio system. However, the timetable and costs for this expansion are not yet firmly established. 
Ambassador-at-Large for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Safeguards  (Question No.  1641) 
I have listened with care to the matter which has been raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  In a sense he questioned whether the contact should be made with me or  Mr Lynch.  I suggest that there is really not much point in trying to contact me as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in the Senate. A direct contact with  Mr Lynch  would be appropriate in this case. Like  Senator Mulvihill,  I will be out of Canberra until Monday night. Perhaps I should make that clear. At this stage I have no knowledge of the movements of  Mr Lynch.  He could, of course, be contacted through his Canberra office and no doubt the people concerned would be aware of his whereabouts. 
The matter which has been raised by the honourable senator is, of course, one of concern. There are about 700 employees involved. I think it should be said that this is a problem which has arisen during a period when the industry is currently benefiting from the temporary protection it has been getting for nearly four years, at a rate of 40 per cent for the last two years. The problems which have given rise to the announced closures do not really relate to a lack of profitability following a change in duty but to a problem of profitability before any change has been made. There are commercial decisions involved in this matter and they are decisions over which a government can have very little control. 
I would not wish to test the limits of my knowledge of this industry in a debate this evening. I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  would appreciate that. Rationalisation is taking place in the industry which appears to have an excessive capacity. It is worth noting that currently the industry has recovered its share of the passenger car tyre market that it had lost to imports for a period. There is improved labour productivity and a quite healthy rationalisation, but that has meant that unprofitable plants have had to close. That is a matter of concern to the honourable senator and to the Government. 1 think it would be wrong to hold out any hope that there is some government magic wand which enables plants which are unprofitable to be kept open. I have noted the comments of the honourable senator. They will, of course, be referred to the appropriate Minister. I will draw it to his attention that he can expect to hear about them. 
Just to respond to that interjection, my understanding is that  Mr Lynch  will be away from Canberra himself tomorrow, but I will ask my staff to ensure that the  Hansard  is drawn to the attention of  Mr Lynch.  I do not think there is anything more that I can say. While the Government sympathises with the position in which the company's employees find themselves, this is a commercial decision of the company itself. That decision was no doubt influenced by the company's continuing inability to achieve profitable operations even under the high levels of protection which have obtained over the last few years. It is not the usual role of governments to underwrite the profitability of individual companies. I am advised that my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr 
Viner), is arranging for his Department to work closely with the company and its employees to assist in obtaining alternative employment for them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  on the Crawford Report. 
On behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and for the information of honourable senators I present the text of a statement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in response to the Commonwealth/States Collaborative Soil Conservation Study Report. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
No. 
and (4) Yes. 
) The invitation was made orally and no cash value was discussed or assessed. 
) As far as videotape costs only were concerned- yes. 
The Executive Producer, 'Nationwide', Sydney. 
) $2 1 ,502-522,252 per annum. 
The decision to decline the invitation was a program judgment, properly made, which had regard, among other things, to other available program coverage. It is not regarded as a ' mistake '. 
On behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and for the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of the Special Trade Representative for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
I did see the report of the statement to which the honourable senator has referred. My reaction to it was to endeavour to check the facts mentioned in it. As  Senator Bonner  said, the claim was that about 120 Aboriginals from Lake Nash had moved from there and camped in the bush at Camooweal. I have made inquiries since that report appeared late last week, and my advice is that in fact there are no more than 10 or 11 Aboriginals at Camooweal at the moment and that the population of Lake Nash is stable at the normal 60 to 80 people. It is a fact that within the last few weeks there have been up to 80 Aboriginals camped at Camooweal as part of the normal movement of Aboriginals from various stations on both sides of the Queensland-Northern Territory border at this time of the year. Some have gone on to Mount Isa for a rodeo and others have remained at Camooweal for their traditional get-together. 
I think a number of honourable senators will be aware that there is a fairly constant movement of Aboriginal people along the western Queensland border, as there is along the Western Australian, Northern Territory and South Australian borders. One gets different concentrations of people at different times. I am sorry that the Aborigines were referred to by  Mr Porter  as refugees. I think that is a very exaggerated term to adopt. In fact there has been movement across these areas for a very considerable period. I would have to agree that the conditions right along the border for these fairly itinerent people are less than satisfactory. I visited Camooweal and places such as Mount Isa in western Queensland, and there is no doubt that those Aboriginals moving around do not have adequate facilities at the different places at which they stop. That is a matter that I suggest requires Commonwealth-State co-operation to tackle rather than statements of accusation or complaint. 
As far as the other matter raised by  Senator Bonner  is concerned, there have been some difficulties with respect to the funding of housing in Queensland, in part related to the failure of the Queensland Department to expend all the funds provided. Over the last couple of years there has been an under-expenditure of funds for programs which were being funded at the request of the Queensland Government with respect to replacement of cyclone-damaged housing at Mornington Island. However, the position in Queensland is not unique. It has a housing shortage for Aborigines as do, I think, each of the States of Australia. I am very pleased to draw the attention of the Senate, including  Senator Bonner,  and if necessary of the Queensland Government to the fact that for the first time we have earmarked part of the general welfare housing funds for Aboriginal purposes. I am sure that Queensland will be delighted to know- of course, the State has been so advised- that $6m of the general welfare housing funds are to be used specifically to alleviate the housing situation of Aboriginal people. I think the fact that welfare funds have been so earmarked is a notable first for this Government. I hope that this will be a continuing practice and that over the next couple of years we will see a considerable improvement in Aboriginal housing around Australia. 
It is true that the honourable senator has raised this matter both in correspondence and in questions. The facts remain as they have been for some time. The honourable senator- indeed most honourable senators- will be aware that an action was brought on behalf of, I think, an employee at Yarrabah asserting that he was entitled to be paid award wages. It was thought that the case raised issues under the Commonwealth legislation known as the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act, but in fact the tribunal before which the case was brought- the Queensland Industrial Courtbrought down a decision which said that the person bringing the application was entitled to be paid award wages under Queensland law and made no reference to the Commonwealth law. The present position in Queensland, as I understand the decision which has been given, is that such employees are entitled to receive award wages for the work that they do. The enforcement of that decision and action to ensure that award wages are paid are matters which lie in the hands of those people and the bodies which are in Queensland to assist them, including the Aboriginal Legal Service, which was, I think, originally associated with the Cook case being brought to court. 
I suppose it might also be said that the trade union movement has an active interest in the matter, since I understand the decision given provides that award wages are payable to persons who are parties to the awards, namely, members of trade unions. I am not quite sure what the trade union movement is doing in Queensland at the moment with respect to that. The Government is concerned at the suggestion that it might be necessary to retrench a large number of workers. The Government has before it a request from the Queensland Government that suggests that it is the Commonwealth's responsibility to make up the difference between what is paid now and what would be paid under award wages. That is a matter which the Government has under consideration. I emphasise to the Senate that the present position is that under Queensland law these workers are entitled to be paid full award rates. Whether or not money will be made available is a matter for decision by the Government. That decision has not yet been taken. I do not think there is anything further that I can usefully add. 
The honourable senator asks whether the Commonwealth Government will apply pressure to the Queensland Government. I tried to make it clear that the court has made a finding on Queensland law. That law is available for the use of all Queensland citizens, including the Aboriginal population. The Commonwealth funds the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in Queensland to the extent of- I will not guess at the figure- a very large sum each year. That service is available to assist Aboriginal people who want to obtain the protection of the law of Queensland and the law of the Commonwealth. 
I am aware of the very good reception which the 2Vi per cent depreciation allowance has received from the tourist industry. My earliest knowledge of this, in fact, came from my colleague,  Senator Rae,  who has been assiduously pursuing this valuable step for  some years.  He was the first person to pass on that very good news to me. I am very pleased to hear it again from the honourable senator from Queensland. I note the suggestion made by the honourable senator from Queensland that we should capitalise on this valuable reform by freeing the airline system. I will refer that suggestion to the Minister for Transport for his consideration. 
-On Wednesday, 22 August 1979,  Senator Sibraa  asked me a question without notice concerning alleged interference with a letter to him from the office of the Minister for Education. In particular,  Senator Sibraa  said that the back of the letter was stamped 'Examined by Australia Police' and that the seal of the envelope had been interfered with. I said that I would try to give him a reply that day or by Thursday. In fact, the matter required careful inquiry and I have only just been able to get an answer for him. 
Since 1972, measures for the protection of honourable members and senators and their staffs from explosive devices delivered by mail have been progressively instituted. Under the authority of the Presiding Officers, all mail addressed to Parliament House is passed through an electronic scanning device designed to detect explosive objects. Similar procedures operate in respect of mail delivered to the parliamentary offices in Sydney at Martin Place and at Chifley Square. For Martin Place, the scanning is, by arrangement, carried out by the Commonwealth Police post to which mail is delivered for the purpose. For Chifley Square, it is carried out by staff of the Department of Administative Services. In the event of positive indication on the scanning device, an article is isolated and subjected to specific examination by explosives experts. Neither the Commonwealth Police nor departmental officers are permitted to open or interfere with mail except in circumstances where they have reasonable grounds to believe that an offence has been committed by the inclusion of an explosive device, and only then after they have, if practicable, consulted the addressee. 
The letter referred to was a letter from  Senator Carrick  's Sydney office in the Martin Place parliamentary offices addressed to  Senator Sibraa  in the Chifley Square parliamentary offices. In accordance with normal procedure, it was delivered to the Commonwealth Police post in the Martin Place parliamentary offices for inclusion in the regular courier delivery service to Chifley Square. It has been established that the letter in question was inadvertently stamped at the Commonwealth Police post. Following a check with the Commonwealth Police officer who stamped the envelope, the Acting Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police advises that the envelope was simply passed through an electronic scanning device and stamped to indicate this and was not opened or interfered with by the police officer concerned. In the handling and delivery of this particular item it appears that the seal was partially torn. It has not been possible to establish whether this was due to defective sealing of the envelope or to some other accidental cause. 
I note the very suspicious interjection from the honourable senator. In the light of the general facts, it appears that it is simply a matter of minor error and not a matter to be regarded with suspicion. 
-On Tuesday, 21 August,  Senator Lewis  asked me a question concerning Telecom recorded message services. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications, to whom I referred  Senator Lewis's  question, has now informed me that this question relates to a trial recorded information system being operated in Melbourne under the name Telemed. The system has been set up for an initial period of six months in conjunction with the Victorian College of General Practitioners, which supplies the tape recordings. The first message commenced on 3 1 July and was a dual one, comprising advice on venereal disease followed by a segment relating to smoking, along the lines mentioned by  Senator Lewis.  The Tobacco Institute of Australia subsequently approached Telecom and expressed concern that the implied association between VD and smoking was offensive to people engaged in the tobacco industry. Telecom acknowledged the validity of the objection and approached the College of General Practitioners with alternative arrangements which dissociated the anti-smoking message from that of VD. Telecom has advised the College that it has no objection to including the anti-smoking message in any later messages to be used in the Telemed trials, provided it is not linked with venereal disease. The current message is a dual one covering VD and heart disease. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911 to enable certain of the Governor-General's powers under that Act to be delegated to the Treasurer, or a delegate of the Treasurer, so that new arrangements for marketing Commonwealth securities, as agreed to by the Loan Council, may be introduced later this year. In addition, there are two proposed amendments of a machinery nature to the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911. 
Honourable senators will probably be aware of these new marketing arrangements, which were the subject of a press statement issued following the Loan Council meeting on 2 April 1979, and have commonly been referred to as the tap issue of bonds and the issue of Treasury notes by tender. Essentially, these new arrangements are designed to modernise the marketing of Commonwealth securities in a way which is appropriate to the changed funds markets in this country. 
Ultimately interest rates can only be determined in accordance with market forces. The increased sophistication of financial markets makes this more apparent. The arrangements introduced in this legislation facilitate the selling of Commonwealth securities at rates more in accordance with the forces of supply and demand. 
In outline, the proposed new arrangements are as follows: 
Treasury bonds and associated inscribed stock, which are referred to simply as 'bonds', are to be made available on a tap basis, that is, with one or more securities available to investors on a more or less continuous basis throughout the year, in contrast to the past practice of issuing new Commonwealth bonds through periodic cash loans. Bonds will be offered to investors by the Reserve Bank acting as agent for the Commonwealth. The Loan Council will continue to determine the maturity date and coupon rate of the securities issued in the tap and will, from time to time, establish the limits within which the yields on the approved tap stocks on issue may be varied by the  Chairman  of the Loan Council without further consultation with Loan Council. 
Treasury notes and association inscribed stock referred to as 'notes' are to be sold by periodic tender, through the Reserve Bank acting on behalf of the Commonwealth. This will replace the present system whereby notes are available on continuous issue at predetermined prices. 
The advantages of selling bonds through a tap rather than through the occasional cash and conversion loans of the present system include: 
Having bonds on sale for longer continuous periods, with different stocks being issued from time to time and adjustments being made to prices to reflect market movements, will offer greater flexibility and scope for greater control over the quantity of securities issued and the maturity spread. 
It should minimise the disadvantage of the present system of encouraging speculation associated with good and poor loan results, thus contributing to an unwelcome instability in bond rates and difficulties in marketing debt. 
The issue of bonds on a more or less continuous basis should also be more satisfactory from the point of view of institutional investors. Even with the instalment facility, the take-up of securities has in the past tended to be concentrated into a very short period which, given the large size of some past cash loans, and the large borrowing programs to be financed, itself contributed to instability in money markets. 
Sharp swings in liquidity, for example as are associated with tax payments, can mean that the maturity dates of existing bonds which normally coincide with new cash loans can be quite inappropriate for trying to raise large sums in cash loans, though, of course, cash loans can be and have been held at other times. 
The advantages of selling treasury notes by tender include: 
The fact that the amount sold can be more precisely determined by the authorities but with the price more fully reflecting market views. 
The advantages of that situation will be that the authorities will be in a better position to ensure that adequate volumes of treasury notes are taken up by the private sector in accordance with policy objectives, including the need for the private sector to be adequately equipped to finance seasonal contractions in liquidity. 
For the new arrangements in respect of the marketing of bonds and notes to operate effectively, it may be necessary to make changes at short notice to the prices at which the securities are issued. It may also be necessary to make changes to the maturities, interest rates and other conditions of issue at short notice. 
With notes being offered by tender, the prices and hence yields at which notes will be issued will, of course, depend on the terms bid by those participating in each tender. The tap issue of bonds will also entail adjustments to price in order to change yields so as to reflect market conditions. In addition, technical adjustments to prices will be required to maintain the existing pattern of yields as the period to maturity of the tap stocks shortens. 
The Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act, which I note is a very old Act, presently provides for the prices and other terms and conditions of issue of Commonwealth securities to be determined by the Governor-General. To allow for the flexibility required for dealing with these matters under the new arrangements, it is proposed that provision be made to enable the Governor-General to delegate his relevant powers, and it is the essential purpose of this bill to amend the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act accordingly. 
It is to be emphasised that these amendments to existing legislation will, if passed, in no way reduce the powers of the Parliament to authorise the borrowing of money by the issue and sale of stock, bonds or other securities. Such borrowing would continue to require the authority of an Act of Parliament. The new arrangements for marketing Commonwealth securities represent essentially a modernisation of procedures in relation to the issue of Commonwealth securities in line with developments in capital markets which have become increasingly sophisticated since existing methods of marketing Treasury bonds and Treasury notes were introduced. 
I mention that the new marketing schemes have been endorsed by all the State governments as well as the Commonwealth. The Bill does not in any way pre-empt further consideration of marketing techniques in the Loan Council. Rather, it provides for flexibility in adopting methods of marketing of Commonwealth securities as agreed to by the Loan Council. I turn now to the machinery amendments proposed in the Bill. Clause 3 of the Bill would amend section 4 of the Act to provide that stock can be created, issued and sold in respect of borrowings by the Commonwealth authorised by an Act or in respect of borrowings by a State under the Financial Agreement. Clause 5 of the Financial Agreement requires that any securities issued in respect of certain defined borrowings by a State be Commonwealth securities. 
Clause 9 of the Bill proposes repeal of the present outdated audit section of the Actsection 53- and its replacement by a new section 53 which sets out audit provisions which are now more or less standard in Commonwealth legislation. I commend them to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speeches in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows- 

Navigation Amendment Bill 1979 
This Bill contains many amendments that were in the Navigation Bill 1975 which lapsed with the termination of the 29th Parliament. They were again in the Navigation Amendment Bill 1976 which lapsed also with the prorogation of Parliament on 28 February 1977. It also contains a number of other urgent important measures. The amendments fall into groups for a number of important specific purposes and there are numerous other amendments mainly of a minor nature. Because of the complexity of the subject matter explanatory notes on the clauses are being circulated to honourable senators. One particularly important aspect of the Bill is that it contains the legislation necessary for Australia to become a party to no less than 5 international maritime Conventions, 4 of which are Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions. I shall deal briefly with each one. 
The first is the International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships, 1957. This Convention came into force internationally in 1 968, but the relevant law in Australia still consists of the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1894 and 1900 of the United Kingdom. One of the main practical effects of this group of amendments is to increase the amounts to which a shipowner will be able to limit his liability- unless he is held to be actually at fault himself- in respect of claims arising out of the specified occurrences to which the Convention applies. The existing very low limits of about $28 a ton for personal claims and $ 1 5 a ton for property claims provided for in the Merchant Shipping Acts are to be increased to the equivalent of the Convention limits- about $ 179 and $57 a ton respectively at the present time. 
In giving effect to the 1957 Convention, Australia, like a number of European shipping countries, will, at the request of the States, exercise the option provided for in the Protocol of Signature to exclude the application of subparagraph ( 1 ) (c) of Article 1 of the Convention. This means that shipowners will not be able to limit their liability in respect of damage to harbour works, or for wreck removal. The Bill specifically approves ratification by Australia of the Convention, subject to a reservation making that exclusion. The new section 338, which absolves shipowners from liability in respect of certain property claims, does not introduce any new benefit for shipowners but is a re-enactment of an existing provision in Part VIII of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act, which is being repealed to make way for the new limitation provisions. New section 59b, however, will prevent shipowners from limiting their liability for claims by crew members serving under Commonwealth articles of agreement. This was sought by the unions, and is also a practice followed by many maritime nations. 
The Bill will also enable Australia to accede to the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972, which prescribes new 'rules of the road ' for ships on the high seas and in all connected waters navigable by sea-going vessels. Those international regulations came into operation on 15 July 1977, and were incorporated in Commonwealth and State regulations and so are observed in practice. However, the Convention could not be acceded to because the Commonwealth and State Acts under which the regulations are made do not enable the regulations to be applied to all the vessels covered by the Convention. The new provisions rectify this aspect. 
The third Convention is the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, known as the SOLAS Convention, which consolidates and supercedes the 1960 Convention of that name and the up-dating amendments made over the intervening years. The 1974 Convention, which is the latest of several such Conventions that have been drawn up over the years since the  Titanic  disaster of 1912, lays down more advanced technical safety requirements. It deals with such matters as ship construction and stability, machinery and radio and other equipment, fire protection, detection and extinction, life-saving appliances and carriage of cargoes of potential danger and requires surveys and inspections to ensure compliance with the standards laid down and the issue of international safety certificates to ships that comply. The Navigation Act already gives effect to the 1960 Convention, and so the Bill makes the necessary amendments to cover the further-improved requirements of the 1974 Convention and the amending 1978 Protocol. The protocol was adopted at the Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention Conference convened by IMCO at the request of the United States last year following a number of serious pollution incidents off the US coast. It introduces a number of additional measures into the Convention, aimed at greater tanker safety. Although neither the Convention nor the Protocol is yet in force internationally, it is the Government's wish that Australia should become a party to these instruments as soon as possible and thus contribute to their early commencement. The Bill contains the necessary legislation to enable this to be done. 
The fourth Convention being dealt with by the Bill is the International Convention for Safe Containers which was adopted in 1972 and has entered into force internationally. This Convention lays down requirements for the structure, testing, inspection, approval and maintenance of new and existing containers used in international transport, excluding air transport. Under the Bill approval is given to ratification by Australia and the necessary provisions for that purpose are inserted in the Act. Additional structural safety requirements or tests may be prescribed to the extent permitted by the Convention. 
The other Convention concerned is the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1 969, which aims at providing a universally acceptable system for the tonnage measurement of ships, by volume of interior spaces, in place of a number of other systems that each have their particular adherents. The main purposes of such measurement are to facilitate the levying of dues and charges and to enable ships to be compared for size by measurement of interior volume. All the present tonnage measurement formulae have disadvantages, particularly for roll-on roll-off and container ships, and these will be eliminated under the much simpler methods of the Convention, which has received almost enough support to put in operation the procedures for bringing it into force. The Convention is expressed to apply to ships on international voyages excluding ships less than 24 metres in length. For the first 12 years the Convention provisions are mandatory only for new ships and for existing ships that undergo substantial alterations. It will become mandatory for other ships at the end of that period. Whilst, therefore, the Bill contains the necessary provisions to enable ratification by, and application in, Australia, it also leaves the existing provisions to apply as long as they continue to be required. 
In the case of the first four of these Conventions the Commonwealth has agreed that it would be appropriate to include saving clauses in the Bill to permit State legislation to apply the Conventions within limits appropriate to State responsibilities. In this context I use the word State' to include the Northern Territory. The effect of these saving clauses will be that to the extent that a State chooses to legislate on these matters within the limits laid down, the Commonwealth law contained in the Bill will not apply. The scope provided for State law on these matters varies with each Convention and, broadly speaking, is as follows: For the Limitation Convention and the SOLAS Convention State law will be permitted in the case of 'intra  state  ships', that is ships not proceeding on interstate or overseas voyages; for the Prevention of Collisions Convention State law will be permitted in the case of all ships in the territorial sea and internal waters, that is, on the landward side of the 3 mile limit; and for the Containers Convention State law will be permitted in respect of containers in the State. These arrangements reflect the Government's policy of co-operative federalism and they are beneficial from the point of view of the Commonwealth as well as the States. From the Commonwealth viewpoint it is possible for Australia to become a party to the respective Conventions once the Commonwealth legislation is enacted and without the need to await complementary legislation by the States. From the States' point of view the benefit of the arrangement is that their legislative powers are not eroded by an unrestricted exercise of the Commonwealth's external affairs power. 
Two important related sets of provisions that have been in the Act since its early days are being repealed and replaced under this Bill. I refer to the provisions dealing with the manning of ships and the qualifications of masters and other officers and of seamen. The new provisions have been arrived at after considerable consultation with the industry and the State marine authorities. 
The old inflexible manning provisions of the Act, designed for the shipping industry of half a century ago, have long been completely inappropriate. New section 14 is being substituted in place of the excessive detail now in the Act, with its precise but' outmoded scales of officers and seamen in Schedules I and II. These provisions will enable the Minister to specify detailed requirements as to the minimum numbers and qualifications pf officers and seamen to be carried in specified ships or classes of ships, to the extent that it appears necessary in the interests of safety or protection of the marine environment. The criteria to be applied in determining the minimum manning are to be set out in the regulations after further discussions with the industry. The new provisions have been arranged so that the changes can be implemented in 2 stages. Initially it will be possible to remove the application of the outmoded Schedules and other inflexible provisions, and then, following detailed discussions with the industry, to prescribe and bring into operation the minimum safety manning for ships when all aspects of the regulations have been satisfactorily resolved. Failure to carry officers and seamen as specified will be an offence for which the master and owner will both be liable to a fine of up to $1,000. A ship not carrying officers and seamen as required may be detained, or specified operations restricted, with a maximum penalty on both master and owner of $5,000 for non-compliance. 
Turning to the related area of qualifications, which includes training and examination, here too the Bill repeals the old outmoded provisions. A new section 15 is substituted which provides broad enabling powers under which standards of competence to be attained and other conditions to be satisfied in order to be 'qualified' for the purposes of the Act will be specified by regulation or by order under the regulations. Amongst other things to be so prescribed will be detailed requirements in respect of instruction, training and the conduct of examinations and the issue of certificates of competency, the recognition of certificates issued by other countries, and the review by an appropriately-constituted 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal of administrative decisions made under those regulations and orders. The power conferred by section 25 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act will be used to make regulations prescribing the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in these matters. Under these provisions there will be a new structure for certificates of competency designed to meet modern shipping needs and derived from the Uniform Shipping Laws adopted by the Minister for Transport and State Marine Ministers in the Marine and Ports Council of Australia following consultation between the Department of Transport, State Marine Authorities and the maritime industry. These provisions of the Code are based on international requirements developed through IMCO, which in July 1978 were embodied in an international Convention, and will provide the basis for courses of study at the new Australian Maritime College. Certificates issued under the new provisions will be acceptable to the various Australian Marine Authorities. 
The Uniform Shipping Laws Code which I have mentioned extends to a wide range of matters besides qualifications and the Act contains powers to enable legal effect to be given to those other sections of the Code. For some considerable time working groups of Commonwealth and State officials have been drawing up this Code, which contains requirements for the survey and manning of commercial vessels to be uniformly adopted in order to overcome the present serious lack of uniformity between the requirements imposed by the various States and the Commonwealth. Under the Bill, therefore, it will be possible to put the Code into practical effect. 
A further important feature of the Bill, because it will make a valuable contribution to safety of life and property at sea, is that it gives legal effect to the ship movement reporting scheme, known as 'AUSREP', that has been operating voluntarily for some time. The scheme ensures that positive action is taken to search for a ship in the Australian search and rescue area if more than 24 hours have elapsed since the ship last indicated that all was well. Also, if a ship is in distress, it enables the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre of the Department of Transport to know immediately what ships are in the area and which of these would be best suited to assist in the emergency. In addition to improved safety, the system achieves significant economies in the use of search and rescue resources by providing a datum on which to concentrate a search if a ship becomes overdue. 
As it appears that no such legislation exists anywhere else, Australia is the world leader in this important development. Information about the system aroused considerable interest in IMCO, and Australia proposed to IMCO that a uniform ship movement reporting system should be an integral part of any internationally-agreed search and rescue plan. This led on to the recent International Conference on Maritime Search and Rescue held in Hamburg, at which the Australian delegation included two experts from the Department of Transport responsible for Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre and AUSREP operations. The Conference adopted a new Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue providing for a global search and rescue plan incorporating systems such as AUSREP. 
The other subject involving a group of amendments is historic shipwrecks. The Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976 empowers the Minister for Home Affairs to declare particular shipwrecks and related relics of historic significance to be historic shipwrecks', thus bringing them under the protective provisions of the legislation. This requires some consequential amendments of the Navigation Act. 
The Historic Shipwrecks Act requires the finder to give notice of his discovery and does not prohibit salvage operations until the wreck is declared historic, when strict controls come into effect. The finder may acquire salvage rights under the Navigation Act, the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Acts, or at common law, before the wreck is declared historic. The Bill therefore provides that various provisions of the Navigation Act that deal with wreck and salvage matters do not apply to a wreck from the time it is declared historic and while it remains so. As salvage rights or liabilities under the Navigation Act acquired before a wreck is declared historic are to be preserved, the Bill also makes express provision for this purpose. There is provision to ensure that, for reasons of safety of life and navigation, the provisions of the Navigation Act giving the Minister powers regarding removal will still apply to any wreck, whether declared historic or not. The Minister is not to exercise any of those powers unless it is necessary to do so for purposes of safety or environmental emergency. Another provision ensures that his powers to deal with oil pollution threats arising from damaged ships continue unrestricted. The other amendments can best be classified as 'miscellaneous'. Many are of a purely drafting or machinery nature. 
One important amendment extends the references in the Act to the owner of a ship to include a reference to the operator, except in a few special circumstances. This is to ensure that where a duty or liability is imposed by the Act on the owner, responsibility for ensuring that that duty or liability is discharged is imposed on the person who is directly concerned with the relevant operations, for example, a bareboat charterer, as well as on the owner. Conversely, a benefit conferred on the owner will also, in appropriate cases, be available to the operator. Other amendments empower the Minister to make orders in relation to detailed technical requirements to be applied under the Act, so that such requirements can be quickly implemented, or varied without delay, in the light of ship casualties, equipment failure investigations, or technical developments. There are a number of amendments relating to the engagement and discharge of seamen and certain of the conditions of their employment, mainly to cater for modern developments in the industry. 
In addition to the prescribing of penalties at appropriate levels for newly-created offences, the opportunity has been taken, where sections are otherwise amended, to update some maximum monetary penalties for existing offences against provisions of the Act and regulations and to increase some general penalties and make consequential adjustments. Other penalties will need to be brought into line later. As was the case with the 1976 Bill, this Bill does not purport to effect a general revision of the Navigation Act. The need for such a revision has been recognised for some time and it is the Government's intention to undertake such a task following the completion of discussions currently under way with the States and industry. Although not a general revision, the Bill now before honourable senators provides the framework for a significant updating of Australia's navigation laws in accordance with the latest international standards of safety and environmental protection. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Lighthouses Amendment Bill 1979 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill effect will be given to the 1974 Safety of Life at Sea Convention in place of the 1 960 Convention of the same name and the definition of the Convention in the Navigation Act will be amended accordingly. Australia will become a party to the 1974 Convention. The Lighthouses Act refers to Australia's obligations under that 1960 Convention to establish and maintain marine navigational aids, which will instead become obligations under the 1974 Convention when it enters into force for Australia. This Bill therefore amends the Lighthouses Act so that, in effect, the reference to the Convention under which those obligations exist will automatically mean the latest Safety of Life at Sea Convention to which Australia has become a party. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment Bill 1979 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill, references in the Navigation Act to the tonnage of ships are being amended to make the tonnage terms uniform and in line with the terminology introduced when the amendments made by the Navigation Act 1 972 were brought into force on 1 December 1 976. The new amendments are being deemed to have come into operation on the same date as the 1972 amendments. The Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment Act contains a reference to ship tonnage which is being similarly amended, and that amendment also is to be deemed to have come into operation on that same date. As the amendment is one of terminology only, its retrospective effect does not affect levies already paid. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Sea-Carriage of Goods Amendment Bill 1979 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill, provisions in respect of the limitation of shipowners' liability are being inserted in the Navigation Act to supersede the old provisions of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Acts in respect of that subject that still apply in Australia. This Bill therefore makes the necessary replacement of a reference in the SeaCarriage of Goods Act that in effect applies the old United Kingdom law, with a reference to the new Navigation Act provisions. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill 1979 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill the term 'prescribed country' is to be used in various places in the Navigation Act instead of the term 'Commonwealth country'. The Seamen's Compensation Act uses the term Commonwealth country' and defines it as having the same meaning as in the Navigation Act, and as to be consistent the term 'prescribed country' should be used instead, the necessary amendments are being made. They are expressed to come into operation at the same time as the main related amendment of the Navigation Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have received representations on behalf of the Commonwealth Games Foundation, I advised that the recently announced major new domestic air fare package included provision for in-bound international travellers to receive a 30 per cent discount on the normal economy fare under the 'See Australia Fare'. A condition of this fare is that the length of air travel must exceed 1,000 kms but that the sectors travelled need not be consecutive. This fare would appear to offer considerable benefits to international visitors to the Commonwealth Games in 1982. 
The honourable senator's question raises a series of matters of detail which I will refer to the Minister for Productivity for reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under the Airlines Agreements Act TAA and Ansett have undertaken not to cease to operate a rural air service except after prior consultation with the Secretary to the Department of Transport with a view to the replacement of the service by an air service conducted by the holder of a charter licence to whom approval has been given to operate a regular public transport service in accordance with regulation 203 of the Air Navigation Regulations. 
The undertaking anticipates prior consultations between the Airline and the prospective operator but does not require the Airline to detail the manner of discussions that have been held on the subject. Accordingly I am unable to advise when discussions first took place between Trans-Australia Airlines and BPA (formerly Bush Pilots Airways) on this issue. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review, which was completed last year, examined the existing domestic jet air fare formula used for determining fares on the routes of TAA and AAA. The Review Committee concluded that the 'flag fall ' component of the formula was too low, and that the distance component would better reflect the cost situation if it contained two elements for distance reflecting lower operating costs over longer distances. The Committee recommended that a revised formula along these lines be developed and that it be phased in over time. 
As a result of discussions between my Department and the two airlines on the Review's recommendations, a committee has been set up to examine the recommendation relating to air fare formula. 
Notwithstanding this examination there has already been a gradual movement in favour of long distance air fares, by increasing the flag fall by proportionately greater amounts than the distance rate component. 
Before the Review was commenced in July 1 977 the jet air fare formula was $9.13 plus 5.583 cents per km. It is now $ 1 7.00 plus 6.83 1 cents per km. Over the two year period flag fall has increased by 86 per cent and distance rate by 22 per cent. This has meant that the fare for a long distance route such as Darwin-Sydney has increased by about 25 per cent over the period compared with a 48 per cent increase in the fare for the short Canberra-Sydney route. 
Adjustments to the air fare formula are made when approval is being given to air fare increases. A uniform flag fall is used for all routes. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) 183 persons have been charged in connection with the alleged Social Security frauds. Of these, 182 have been charged with conspiracy. The other person was not charged with conspiracy but with imposition. 
Of the 182 persons charged with conspiracy, one has died. Of the remainder, 34 have had the conspiracy charges against them withdrawn. 
The reasons for the withdrawal of the charges are as follows: 
The charge against one defendant was withdrawn because he had agreed to give Crown evidence; and 
The remaining 33 charges were withdrawn on the advice of Senior Counsel on the basis that the admissable evidence available in each case was insufficient to establish a prima facie case. 
I do remember that  Senator Jessop  went to Eyre Peninsula with  Mr Staley  and I remember wishing that I could have been with them because  Senator Jessop  has always told us a great deal about the needs of Eyre Peninsula. I am advised by  Mr Staley  that he is very unhappy at the delay that there has been in providing the final detailed information, but he is very pleased to be able to say to the honourable senator that the detail will be available by next week.  Mr Staley  expects to advise  Senator Jessop  of details of the individual sites to be included in the overall project with as clear an indication of the timing of their development as is possible at this stage. 

 Mr LYENKO URBANCHICH 
It is my understanding that the figures were compiled by the Department of Health in the Northern Territory but I will seek confirmation of that. I am not able to explain any delay but I will seek information on that also. 

Senate has before it an urgency motion brought by  Senator Ryan  on behalf of the Opposition which alleges the collapse of the credibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and the television licence transfer provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act. It specifically relates that collapse not to the totality of the history of the Tribunal or to the general operations of the provisions but to two matters which came before the Tribunal, namely, the transfer of an interest in Channel 10, in Sydney and the transfer of an interest in Channel 4, Wollongong. It is not at all clear to me, having listened to  Senator Ryan,  whether up to that point she regraded the Tribunal as being a worthwhile reform in Australian broadcasting or whether these two transactions have soured an otherwise approving view of what the Government established in 1 977. 
I think that the Parliament saw a relatively high degree of unanimity on the desirability of establishing an independent tribunal which would deal with these important questions. The Government agrees with a comment made by  Senator Ryan  in the course of her speech that the ownership of television is important to the public in Australia. It is a matter of considerable interest, I think, to all Australians.  Her  complaints about the cost of the Tribunal and its operations over the last few years have to be seen in that light. We have moved to a situation in which an independent tribunal has been given considerable powers to act in and to protect the public interest. The costs of that have to be measured against the seriousness of the task that has been assigned to the Tribunal. Honourable senators in general, I think, would be aware that the institution of the Tribunal took place over a couple of years. The Government first established the Tribunal in 1976. The then Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Eric  Robinson, in his second reading speech on the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) which announced these major changes in Australian broadcasting said that the first of the major changes decided upon by the government covered the disband ment of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. He continued: 
The Tribunal will be a 'quasi-judicial' body with powers to hold public inquiries, into the grant and renewal of licences in the commercial and public sectors, as well as into such matters as the setting of standards of broadcasting practice, alleged breaches of licence conditions, or any aspect of broadcasting referred to it by the Minister. 
I think that that is relevant to the present debate as it underlines the status of the Tribunal. It is a quasi-judicial body carrying out functions independently of government. Whilst some of its decisions might be regarded as open to criticism by members of the Opposition and some members of the Government, the fact is that it is established in its independence to carry out those and other functions to which I shall refer shortly. 
I have even heard honourable senators complain in this place about the decisions of judges. That is a right which ought to be allowed to us too. But the fact that individual decisions can be the subject of debate does not take from the desirability of the principle that these are matters which ought to be dealt with by an independent tribunal and not made subject to direct political control. On that principle we have agreement between the Government and the Opposition. In 1977 the Government took its next step and, in the Bill which passed through the Parliament that year, transferred the then ministerial powers relating to the licensing of stations to the Tribunal and fully established the present powers and functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The relevant second reading speech which has, in part, been quoted by  Senator Ryan  with approval as containing principles which are shared between the Government and the Opposition still represents the Government's view on the matters which are contained in it. Once again, there the second reading speech stressed the status of the Tribunal. The Minister said: 
The Tribunal will have quasi-judicial powers. In performing its functions the Tribunal will be required to hold inquiries where it is desirable to do so. The Bill provides that the Tribunal hold such inquiries in public and that it consider all submissions made to it as pan of the inquiry process. It is also required to publish reports on its inquiries, detailing its deliberations and the reasons for its decisions and recommendations. 
Again, these are matters which are not matters of dispute between the Government and the Opposition. These provisions would have the general support of all senators. One of the early complaints which was made by  Senator Ryan  in her speech was that no reasons had been stated for the WIN4 decision. I am a little puzzled at that because I have been shown a news release put out by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on 20 August 1979 which has, as its heading 'Full Text of WIN4 Decision'. The release goes on to read: 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, released today the full text of the Tribunal's decision in which approval was granted to Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd to acquire a majority holding in Television Wollongong Transmissions Ltd, licensee company of commercial television station WIN4 Wollongong. 
Unless there is some very odd misunderstanding it does appear that, in fact, a little over a week ago there was a release by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of the full text of its decisions. I propose to refer to parts of that text in the course of this speech. Having done that I will seek leave to incorporate the full text in  Hansard  so that it is available to all honourable senators and to the subscribing public. 
With respect to that WIN4 decision, which is one of the fundamental points at which  Senator Ryan  says we ought to have lost all confidence in the Tribunal and in the process which is established under the Act, although I suspect from her remarks she is really saying we should just have lost confidence in the Tribunal rather than the general processes which are established under the Act, we find that the Tribunal does come to grips with the very difficult questions of fact and policy which have been raised by  Senator Ryan.  She raised, for example, the question of the control over Oberon Broadcasters, and that is a matter which is dealt with in the Tribunal report on page 5. The question of  Mr and Mrs Gordon's  resident status was raised. The Tribunal stated: 
However, the resident status of  Mr and Mr Gordon  ceased to be a relevant legal consideration with the establishment of the discretionary trust deed on 20 July 1979, whereby control of Oberon Broadcasters is wholly in the hands of residents of New South Wales. 
The Tribunal was given unqualified assurances by the applicant's solicitors and counsel that  Mr Gordon  had no control over the Trust and indeed had given over all but a few rights to the Trust. 
This was one of the key matters upon which the Tribunal sought to satisfy itself when examining Oberon 's new ownership and control arrangements. 
The Tribunal, therefore, was satisfied in its mind that those requirements had been met by Oberon Broadcasters. It specifically addressed itself to that matter. If the Opposition says, 'Well, that is the position, but the law ought not permit that', I suggest that that raises a specific question of policy which, if not covered in the Act, is something to which the Minister ought to be asked to direct his attention. The decision goes on to deal with whether or not the transaction should be refused because the Tribunal considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest. It goes on to deal with that matter and to say that in its view there is a legal presumption in favour of the approval of such transactions. It specifies its reasons for saying why it believes the transaction ought to be approved in this case. So there is no mystery about this matter. While there may. be room for argument about the particular case, I think it is simply a policy question for argument between the Opposition and the Government and does not reflect on the Tribunal itself. 

 Senator Ryan also raised the question of  Mr Gyngell  's role in this particular transaction, the WIN4 decision. I am advised that  Mr Gordon  and  Mr Gyngell  have had a long-standing personal association and that  Mr Gyngell,  at the 4 June meeting of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, notified the Tribunal that he would not participate in the inquiry into the WIN4 share transaction because it involved Oberon Broadcasters Pty Ltd in which  Mr Gordon  and his family were the chief beneficiaries. He also indicated at that time that he would not- in fact, he did not- participate in the deliberations or the decision on that transaction. It should be noted that that indication was made on 4 June, and advertising calling for the inquiry was dated 14 June and the actual inquiry took place on 3 July. 
I have very considerable sympathy for  Mr Gyngell  in his being in a position to be criticised in this matter. I think that all honourable senators would be aware that in making appointments of this kind judgments arise as to what sort of person should be appointed. Should a lawyer be appointed because of his knowledge of the law; should a man of business be appointed because of his knowledge of business? In the case of broadcasting, which we would all agree is an area of enormous public interest, should a man with experience of and a background in broadcasting in a commercial sense be appointed? 

 Mr Gyngell 's background in broadcasting is well known. As I understand it, he has been a leading media figure in Australia for a considerable period. At the time of his appointment a judgment was made by the Government that that sort of person was a desirable appointee. I suppose that once such a person is appointed, whether it be  Mr Gyngell  or some other person who has a background in the media, a difficulty is likely to arise in that transactions might come before the Tribunal in which there will be some personal connections, past business connections and so on. It seems very clear to me that in this case  Mr Gyngell  followed the proper procedures which ought to be followed in a case in which there is some such connection. He declared the connection and disqualified himself from dealing with the matter. The fact is that his conduct in that sense has been unexceptional. I do not believe that he should be subjected to criticism. 
Again, I believe that a genuine policy question arises here which is properly the subject of debate, both between the Government and the Opposition and in the broader public arena. Is it desirable to have someone without any background in broadcasting in that sort of position? I think that  Senator Evans,  who will be the next  speaker,  and  Senator Ryan,  who was the previous  speaker  for the Opposition in this debate could each advance quite cogent arguments in favour of either approach. I suggest that honourable senators on this side of the chamber could cogently argue either case. But the fact of the matter is that it is publicly known that  Mr Gyngell  has a background in broadcasting. In this case a past connection impinged on something which came before the Tribunal and accordingly he disqualified himself from the hearings. It seems to me that all of that follows precisely the course which honourable senators, and indeed the Government, would expect to be followed. 
The other serious matter which has been raised as a matter striking at the whole basis of the Tribunal and the processes of governing the transfer of interests in licences is the transfer of Channel 10. In that matter the complaint of the Opposition is that the Tribunal has not made the right decision in saying: 'We are not going to take into account concentrations of media ownership in other than the electronic media'. I think that in summary that is the major cause of complaint. The Opposition says that the interests of the proposed transferee-  Mr Murdoch's  interests, as I understand it- have extensive interests in the print media and that the potential concentration of both print and electronic media ought to be considered in determining whether a transfer is in the public interest. That, I agree is a serious policy issue. It is a matter which I think is squarely put before the Government as a matter which requires examination, if people believe that that ought to be the policy. 
But it cannot be said that the Tribunal avoided that question or in any sense skated over it. My understanding of the previous decisions of the Tribunal which relate to concentration of media ownership and questions of public interest is that it has always been concerned with concentrations of ownership in the electronic media. What the matter we are debating raises is the further question of concentration of ownership across the boundaries between the electronic and the print media. The Tribunal came to a conclusion that it would examine the matter in terms of the electronic media only. That is a decision on which there is room for disagreement. I do not quarrel with that concept. But the Tribunal, in its independence, has made its decision- as it is entitled to do- and I suggest that the argument is now thrown back to the politicians. I will quote from the Channel 10 decision. I have notice from  Senator Evans  that he wishes to put that decision before the Senate and to have a copy of it incorporated in  Hansard.  I refer to page 9 of the typed version of the decision which states: 
The Tribunal readily agrees that the general question of the aggregation or concentration of media ownership and control is a matter of great public interest and deserving of serious examination. Insofar as it relates to broadcasting and television, the question could be an appropriate subject for a special public inquiry by the Tribunal under Section 1 8 of the Act. 
It would be open to the Minister to direct the Tribunal to hold such an inquiry and to make recommendations to him on the matter. 
As far as I am aware, that is a matter to which there has not been a response from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  but it is a matter which is open for the Government to consider as a serious policy question and no doubt consideration will be given to it. It would be surprising if, in this difficult area where public interest is involved and where views within the community differ quite sharply, there were not differences of opinion over the way in which this relatively new experiment is proceeding. To that extent, I suppose it is. healthy that it would be debated in this Senate so that views can be aired. But I believe that the Tribunal, in its administration of what is a very complex set of rules governing the ownership and control of television licences and where it has to take into account conceptual matters such as the public interest, can be said to have established a useful start in this new process. 
I believe that in the sort of doom-laden criticism which was contained primarily in the matter of urgency rather than in  Senator Ryan's  speech, which really comes down to these relatively limited criticisms, there is an exaggeration of the problems. I believe that we have set off on a most useful course in the broadcasting field in terms of widening public participation and in making public decisions which are taken independently of the political process. I think that all of these worthwhile reforms are matters of which the Government can be quite proud and that in essence they are supported by the Opposition. I do not believe that there is an enormous conflict between the Government and the Opposition in terms of principle on this matter. There are problems in the installation of what is a very new system and I trust that the contributions to this debate will be made in the spirit that serious issues can be raised, examined and held up to the light so that ultimately we will have a system which will at least get the approval of practically all Australians, as I think indeed the present system  has the approval of the great majority of Australians. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Do you seek leave to have a document incorporated in  Hansard? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  for reminding me. I did not get a chance to show this document to  Senator Ryan.  It is simply an eight-page typed document headed 'Decision'. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING TRIBUNAL 
153 Walker Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 P.O. Box 1308 North Sydney 2060 Telex 'ABTEE ' 20683 Telephone 922 2900 
NEWS RELEASE 
No. NR. 96 
FULL TEXT OF WIN-4 DECISION 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, released today the full text of the Tribunal's decision in which approval was granted to Oberon Broadcasters Pty Limited to acquire a majority holding in Television Wollongong Transmissions Ltd, licensee company of commercial television station WIN-4 Wollongong. 
Contact: G. Walsh 0222900 ext 374 
J. Connolly 
Secretary 20 August 1979 
Sydney 
AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING TRIBUNAL 
153 Walker Street, North Sydney, NSW 2060 P.O. Box 1308 North Sydney 2060 Telex 'ABTEE' 20683 Telephone 922 2900 
OBERON BROADCASTERS PTY LIMITED/WIN-4 WOLLONGONG SHARE TRANSACTION INQUIRY DECISION 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 92f (4a) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, the Tribunal shall not refuse to grant approval of a transaction involving a change in the ownership of shares of a television licensee company unless the Tribunal 
is of the opinion that the transaction has resulted or would result in a contravention by the person concerned of Section 92; or 
considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest. 
On 7 June 1979 formal application was made on behalf of Oberon Broadcasters Pty Limited for Tribunal approval to the proposed purchase of 950,687 shares in Television Wollongong Transmissions Limited, from Media Securities Limited, a subsidiary of News Limited. 
Documentation in support of the application was lodged with the Tribunal on 27 June 1979 in which the total number of shares involved in the transaction was stated as 983,337 or 78.7 per cent of the total issued shares of Television. 
The Tribunal announced its intention to conduct a public inquiry into the transaction in press notices, which also invited the public to lodge written submissions concerning the proposal. 
A submission was received from the Australian Labor Party (Federal Secretariat). The Tribunal accepted Point 2 of this submission as relevant to the proceedings. 
The public hearing of the inquiry was conducted in Wollongong on 3 July 1979. Oberon Broadcasters appeared before the Tribunal as a party "directly concerned in the proceedings". 
At the hearing, the Tribunal considered an application from  Mr B.  R. Maguire, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, claiming recognition as "having an interest in the proceedings".  Mr Maguire  stated that he did not propose to call any witnesses or to adduce any evidence. 
The application was denied in accordance with the criteria which the Tribunal follows in granting "approved party" status. However  Mr Moremon  undertook to pursue the points raised in the ALP's submission and during the course of the public inquiry the applicant was questioned at length on matters relating to the independence of Oberon from other Australian media interests and to the resident status of  Mr and Mrs Gordon. 
Subsequent to the public inquiry the Tribunal was advised that the applicant had changed its solicitors, and by letter dated 23 July 1979 details of the restructuring of the shareholding of Oberon Broadcasters were provided to the Tribunal. The ownership and control of Oberon formerly exercised by  Mr and Mrs Gordon  had been transferred to a trustee company Hoverton Pty Limited under an irrevocable discretionary trust established on 20 July 1979. On the same date  Mr Gordon  had entered into a three year Service Agreement with Oberon as a consultant and technical adviser. 
After a preliminary consideration of the Trust Deed and the Service Agreement the Tribunal decided to meet with  Mr E.  M. Cowley, the  chairman  of Oberon Broadcasters and Allen, Allen and Hemsely, their solicitors, to enable the Tribunal to fully inform itself on the effects of the new arrangements. The first issue which the Tribunal has had to examine is whether the transaction has resulted or would result in a contravention by the person concerned of Section 92. 
Since1974  Mr Bruce  Gordon has been employed by Paramount Pictures Corporation, based in New York. This raised the question as to whether  Mr or Mrs Gordon  was not "a resident of Australia ", within the meaning of Section 92D, as at the time of the public inquiry Oberon was controlled by the Gordons in the relevant statutory sense. 
The Act does not define what is intended by the term "resident of Australia" for the purposes of Section 92D, nor is this a term for which there is a generally recognised and precise legal meaning. The Tribunal accepts the view that the term may mean different things in different statutory contexts. The task for the Tribunal has been to give it an appropriate meaning for the purposes of this section of the Broadcasting and Television Act . 
As stated in its decision on the NewsLimited/TEN-10 Share Transaction Inquiry ( 10 August 1 979), the Tribunal is satisfied that the intent of the section is to prevent "overseas ownership" of television licensee companies. The question of whether there is a breach in any particular case can only be determined on close examination of actual circumstances of that case. 
At the public inquiry the Tribunal sought information about  Mr Gordon's  personal, family and business interests and associations both in Australia and the United States, with particular attention given to  Mr Gordon  's contract with Paramount Pictures which expires in September 1 98 1 . 
However, the resident status of  Mr and Mrs Gordon  ceased to be a relevant legal consideration with the establishment of the discretionary trust deed on 20 July 1979, whereby control of Oberon Broadcasters is wholly in the hands of residents of New South Wales. 
The Tribunal was given unqualified assurances by the applicant 's solicitors and counsel that  Mr Gordon  had no control over the Trust and indeed had given over all but a few rights to the Trust. 
This was one of the key matters upon which the Tribunal soughtto satisfy itself when examining Oberon 's new ownership and control arrangements. 
Accordingly, the Tribunal is then directed by Section 92  f  (4a) (b) to consider whether the transaction in question should nevertheless be refused because the Tribunal considers it necessary to do so in order to maintain such ownership and control, whether direct or indirect, of the company holding the licence as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, best accord with the public interest. 
The Tribunal considers it desirable to point out that the Act appears to raise what is, in effect, a legal presumption in favour of the approval of such transactions. Section 92f(4a) does not authorise the Tribunal to make whatever decision in relation to a proposed transaction it would consider appropriate in the public interest. Rather, the section says that the Tribunal "shall not refuse to grant approval . . . unless the Tribunal . . . considers it necessary to do so, etc." The onus of proof, therefore, would seem to rest squarely upon those who would contend in a particular case that approval should not be granted. And the requirement that the Tribunal must find it "necessary" to refuse approval, in the public interest as defined, means that the onus of proof is a heavy one. 
In this instance there being no approved parties to the hearing no evidence was placed before the Tribunal to suggest the public interest would be affected in any adverse sense. 
From its examination of the application the Tribunal is of the opinion that Oberon Broadcasters is able to independently fund the transaction. Although Oberon maintained that it did not propose changes in the staffing and operation of WIN-4, the Tribunal noted the statements by  Mr Gordon  as to his expertise in the acquisition and distribution of television programming and his wish to be of assistance to the station in this regard. The Tribunal believes that the association of  Mr Gordon  with WIN-4 by means of the Service Agreement with Oberon is an aspect of the transaction which could indeed have beneficial results for the Wollongong television audience. 
In view of the fact that the chief witness for Oberon at the public inquiry is no longer in a position to control or to manage the affairs of the company, the Tribunal sought and was given undertakings that the  Chairman  and the board of directors of Oberon would adopt as their own all assurances given by  Mr Gordon  at the Inquiry. 
Having given full consideration to all relevant matters it is the decision of the Tribunal to approve the application by Oboron Broadcasters Pty Limited for the purchase from Media Securities Limited shares representing 78.7% of the issued capital of Television Wollongong Transmissions Limited, the licensee of commercial television station WIN-4 Wollongong. 
At the Tribunal meeting at which the decision was made the  Chairman  abstained from voting. 
Dated this tenth day of August 1979. 
BRUCE GYNGELL-Chairman 
JAMES OSWIN-Vice Chairman 
KEITH MOREMON-Member 
I will refer that inquiry to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  and ask him to reply direct to the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Pilot strength, intake and wastage figures as at 3 1 December in each year 1965 to 1978 are shown in the table below. 
The major reasons for pilot wastage during the years 1965 to 1978 were resignation, retirement, medical unfitness, age and termination. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) and (2 ) The local authorities have not raised anything with me or my Department that would suggest they are experiencing unreasonable difficulties. 
1 understand there has been some criticism: However, this appears to have overlooked that at the present time Air Niuguini and Qantas jointly operate return services between Port Moresby and South East Australia on as many days per week, namely six, as they did immediately prior to the introduction by Qantas of B747 aircraft on its Port Moresby services. 
The spread of frequencies that would result from different arrangements would depend upon a number of factors; including the number of Australian domestic airlines that Papua New Guinea authorities would be prepared to let operate to Port Moresby and the number of services per week that each would be allowed to mount, and whether or not there was parallel scheduling of services by airlines operating between Port Moresby and South East Australia. 
The relative economics of operating various aircraft tpes would also need to be considered. More frequent services using smaller aircraft could result in higher costs per passenger kilometre than at present, and might require that fares be increased to recover the additional costs. This would possibly attract stronger criticism than has been levelled at the existing services. 
A number of Aboriginal people, including those who claim to be the owners of the area through which Cahill 's Crossing road passes, have alleged that they were not consulted about the use of the road and that the Northern Land Council had no authority to agree to its use. The traditional owners have formally advised the company that all permits to use the road have been revoked. Under Northern Territory legislation the traditional owners of land can revoke permits which authorise entry to their land. The Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines Ltd on 22 March 1979 signed an agreement in which the terms and conditions of mining on Aboriginal land at Nabarlek were set down. One of the conditions was that permits authorising entry to Aboriginal land would be required by Queensland Mines Ltd employees and its agents and that these permits would be issued by the Northern Land Council and not unreasonably delayed or withheld. 
I am advised that eight Aboriginals have now issued a writ against Queensland Mines Ltd in respect of the road running from Cahill 's Crossing on the East Alligator River to the Nabarlek site, which is south-east of Oenpelli. In that action they seek an injunction to restrain Queensland Mines Ltd and its agents from using the road and damages against the company for such use. I understand that a date for the hearing of that matter in the Northern Territory Supreme Court is to be set- perhaps today. I do not have notice of the actual date of the hearing. 
The honourable senator has asked three questions. I think the answer to the first one is yes, but I will need to check that. I have seen recently a report on that subject, but whether it was the precise report to which the honourable senator referred I am not quite sure. I do not think any action has been taken with respect to C class licences for the places mentioned by her. I have no concluded view with respect to the third point as to whether that is the most appropriate way to advance Aboriginal broadcasting. I do see broadcasting as being of positive value to a number of Aboriginal groups, but at the moment I am waiting on a further briefing which I have sought from my Department on the physical numbers of people in particular language groups who might be served by licences and so on. Until I have further examined the matter I do not think I can give any definitive reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) The answer provided to part (3) of Question No. 928 stated that we have no first hand knowledge in Australia of (he evacuation times for burning aircraft or smoke-filled aircraft cabins and that reports of such accidents overseas have not provided accurate times for the evacuations. 
Demonstrations are held to test the efficiency of the evacuation systems and also the particular airline evacuation procedures and cabin attendant training. In order to do this, it is necessary for such demonstrations to be conducted under realistic conditions but not under conditions where the risk of injury to persons involved in the demonstration is greatly increased. 
You may not be aware that one of the requirements for an evacuation demonstration is that the persons involved be representative of a normal complement of passengers. Therefore, 10 per cent have to be over 50 years of age, 30 per cent have to be over 40, 30 per cent must be female and more than 5 but noi more than 10 per cent must be children under 1 2 years of age. 
The demonstrations are conducted in the dark and there have been numerous cases of serious injuries occurring during demonstration evacuations. Luckily, only minor injuries have occurred in demonstrations in Australia, although there has been a case of a pilot being seriously injured during evacuation training. In the United States, 49 serious injuries occurred in crew training in the period January 1976 to February 1979. 
) Tests were conducted in 1 973 under the auspices of the Department of Transport/ Airlines Working Group on Aircraft Cabin Interior Materials which included furnishing materials selected for use by Australian airlines. These tests, which confirmed compliance with my Department's requirements, were carried out by the Division of Textile Physics, CSIRO on aircraft scat cushions, seat covers, carpets and drapes supplied by the Airlines as part of a more detailed examination of smoke and toxic gas emission of burning materials. 
The Airlines are required to establish that any furnishing materials, other than those supplied by the aircraft manufacturer, meet the Departmental standards of flame resistance. Any necessary testing is carried out by the Airlines or by approved laboratories including, for imported materials, overseas laboratories. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (b) In a joint statement with the Northern Territory Minister for Transport and Works I recently announced that a study would be undertaken into the benefits and costs of a standard gauge rail link between Darwin and Alice Springs. One of the aims of this study will be to define the probable route of such a railway, including any parts of the existing North Australia Railway, so that land may be reserved for a future new line. As part of this process it is likely that a survey of the intended route will be undertaken. These aspects of the study will shortly be pursued by Commonwealth officials in conjunction with officials of the Northern Territory Government. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The numbers of laden tankers are estimated at: 1974-185; 1975-145; 1976-130; 1977-125; 
1978-112; 
the average cargo carried by each is estimated at 30,000 tonnes. 
There have been no reported cases of oil spillage during that period. 
No but the numbers would be few. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Rule 5(b) (vi) of the Rules for Guidance of Persons Flying the Australian National Flag contained in the publication 'The Australian National Flag', refers to occasions when the National Flag is displayed in a line of flags which includes flags other than those of sovereign nations. In this case the position of honour is on the left of an observer facing the flags. Rule 5 (b) (v) is also consistent with this. 
However when the Australian National Flag is displayed with flags of other sovereign nations only, the position of honour is the central position as illustrated in Rule 5(b) (iii) of the Rules for Guidance. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) A recently completed study has defined the need for tidal information in the area. Immediate steps are being taken to install tide monitoring and telemetry equipment at Turtle Head which will add to information already available to mariners from the existing Booby Island installation. The Turtle Head equipment will be commissioned in 1 980-8 1 . 
In the long term, further work on tidal analysis, storm surge and tidal currents will be undertaken. This will result in a comprehensive range of equipment being operational in three to four years time. 
Department of Social Security Office at Belmore: Translation of Leaflet (Question No. 1757) 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following information in response to the honourable senator's question: 
The Company trading as Information and Graphic Systems has received an initial payment of $382,100 out of a total project grant of $ 1 .2m to carry out research and development in the field of computer systems. 
The answers to the senator's specific questions are as follows: 
. No to each of the three parts of the first question. The Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board (AIR and DIB) in assessing the capacity of a company to undertake research and development has no means of knowing what legal proceedings may be taking place or threatened. However, subsequent to the approval of the grant it was brought to my attention that legal action has been taken and threatened in respect of this Company. My advice was 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Section 3 1 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942 relates to the membership of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and provides, in part, for six commissioners comprising, in respect of each State, a person ordinarily resident in that State. Provision is also made for not fewer than three nor more than five other commissioners. 
In making appointments to the Commission, the Government will certainly consider the claims of residents of the Northern Territory who might contribute to the deliberations of this most important body. 
American Medical International  (Question No. 172S) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act prohibit persons or companies from owning or holding a controlling interest in the licences for: 
more than one metropolitan commercial broadcasting station in any State; 
more than four metropolitan commercial broadcasting stations in Australia; 
more than four commercial broadcasting stations in any one State; 
more than eight commercial broadcasting stations in Australia. 
b ) Except for the cities of Canberra, Newcastle, Wollongong and Launceston, each of which have two commercial broadcasting stations owned and controlled by different interests, at this stage there are no towns or cities outside metropolitan areas with more than one commercial radio station. 
I am prepared to consider representations put to me on this subject. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
and (2) I wrote to 3CR on 12 January 1979 in response to the station's application for increased power. 
3 ) At this present time, consideration is not being given to a general policy review in order to authorise an increase in power for public and special broadcasting stations. I am prepared, however, to consider any power increase deemed necessary to upgrade reception within a nominated service area, if it should bc established that coverage of the service area is of an inferior standard. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: lt would bc improper for me to comment on the accuracy of a newspaper ankle purporting to refer to an official memorandum circulated for internal departmental use only. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Information supplied to the Tribunal by commercial radio and television stations and the ABC indicates that the following stations in NSW broadcast or televised the policy speech of the Leader of the Liberal Party in connection with the NSW State election held on 7 October 1 978: 
Commercial Broadcasting Stations-2KY, 2DU, 2GN, 2RG,2ST. 
Commercial Television Stations- TCN, TEN, CBN/CWN, NEN/ECN, MTN, NBN, RTN/NRN. 
National Broadcasting Stations- 2CY, 2FC and nineteen regional stations including 2 WN. 
National Television Stations-ABC 3 ACT, ABAV Albury and fourteen other ABC stations (presumably including ABN2 Sydney and ABWN Wollongong). 
The Tribunal has no information as to the date each station transmitted the speech. 
The Tribunal has no details in connection with this part of the question. Commercial stations and the ABC are not required to provide this information. 
Of the stations mentioned in connection with part ( 1 ) of the question, the following stations were not granted an exemption under section 1 16 (4a) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, by the Tribunal in respect of the Werriwa by-election for the period midnight 20 September to close (8.00 p.m.) of poll, 23 September 1978: 
Commercial Broadcasting Station- 2KY. 
Commercial Television Stations-TCN, TEN. 
National Broadcasting Stations-2FC, 2WN. 
National Television Stations- ABN Sydney and ABWN Wollongong. 
1 understand that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications has kept himself informed of developments in this area overseas. The Postal and Telecommunications Department has been actively monitoring the various overseas experiments which have been undertaken in both hand signing and subtitling. The Minister has been regularly briefed on those developments, particularly those in the United States of America, and an officer in his Department has recently held discussions with British officials of ITV and the British Broadcasting Corporation concerning their experiments with closed captioning using the teletext system. Currently the Australian Broadcasting Commission and 18 commerical television stations are conducting teletext trials and current thinking suggests that the system will be the best suited to serve Australia's needs. But there are some technical problems to be overcome and a final decision on the introduction of teletext has been delayed pending a resolution of those problems. 
Matters relating to station programming and presentation are the prerogative of the national and commercial operators but the Minister for 
Post and Telecommunications has already approached the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations to seek their views on captioning possibilities for programs such as news headlines, special services annnouncements and possibly certain documentary programs. As to whether the Minister will be in a position to meet the last request of the honourable senator, namely, that the Minister make some announcement in the particular week mentioned, I will refer that to  Mr Staley  and ask him to reply to the honourable senator. 
I had a funny feeling this morning that someone would ask me a question along those lines, and I have a little information with which I can assist the honourable senator. I am advised by the Department of Transport that the current pavement rating at Wynard would normally preclude the operation of Lockheed Hercules C 1 30H aircraft. Pavement concessions are issued to allow aircraft to operate at low frequency with weights exceeding that allowed by the pavement rating. In the case of a Hercules C130H we can allow considerable overload in relation to the rating because the undercarriage has a wide load distribution effect. It is the same as saying that if a very heavy person is sitting on one it is better that he be also very wide. The same principle applies apparently to aircraft landing on airstrips. With an aircraft like the DC9 however, there is not that spread effect. Therefore there is greater stress on the pavement, and this is a pavement which has failed previously under less severe loadings. The domestic airlines, I am advised, have not applied to operate DC9 aircraft into Devonport and Wynyard as additional scheduled operations or on an alternate basis. They have made inquiries about using DC9 aircraft for charter operations but have been refused because of pavement limitations and environmental problems. 
The honourable senator has taken a considerable interest in the Aboriginal people of northern South Australia. He has now addressed a series of questions to me. The answer to the first part of the question is yes. The Aboriginal community to which he refers is developing mining contracts and extracting chrysoprase from Mount Davies. It is true that the mining company is looking at alternative contracts. I do not know, on the other hand, whether there is any substance to the allegations which the honourable senator has put to me in his questions about manipulation by various advisers. As far as the further questions asked by the honourable senator are concerned, I do not have any jurisdiction in determining contracts of this kind. The mining company is partly funded by my Department. Its latest allocation was $5;000. The company receives other funds from the sale of chrysoprase. The Commonwealth is concerned only with accounting for trie use of Commonwealth funds. Otherwise we have no power of direction or control over the company. 
The next question concerned the extent to which we fund the salaries of employees. We fund the salary of the community adviser of the Pipalyatjara Community Council and of the project officer of the Pitjantjatjara Council. Both persons are non-Aboriginals. The Commonwealth also funds the salary of the solicitor for the Pitjantjatjara Council, who is also a nonAboriginal. We do not fund the salary of the non- Aboriginal manager of the Pipalyatjara mining company, although it is possible that the company pays part of that salary out of the $5,000 which I referred to earlier. I turn now to what can be done by the Aboriginal people if the allegations repeated by the honourable senator are true. Those Aboriginal bodies have the same remedies as would be available to any person in that circumstance. Of course, they do have legal advice available to them. They can seek legal advice from the other legal service if they need it. They are also in a position to dismiss their advisers who are directly employed by them. If the Aboriginal people feel that the advisers are not doing their job they can simply get rid of them. My understanding is that the people concerned have not entered into any contract to date. I do not think there is any other information I can usefully add. If the honourable senator is concerned- I think he probably has contact with the community- it may also be desirable to draw the matter to the attention of the South Australian Government. The area is situated on South Australian land and comes under the South Australian Mining Act. It may be that that Government also has an interest in the matter. 
I understand from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that the code of practice referred to by the honourable senator includes the note to which he has referred. I am advised also that the arrangements surrounding the use of static advertising signs at televised events also cover a number of other aspects including the positioning of such signs, what the sign should include and the number and size of signs where, of course, the sign has not been covered in terms of the note referred to by  Senator Baume.  I would be happy to arrange for that further information to be made available to the honourable senator if he does not have it. 
The matter has also received a good deal of attention in Australia in the context of the Government's decision in 1976 to proceed with the decision to prohibit the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco products on the electronic media. Representations have been made to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and to the Minister for Health and the matter has already been the subject of discussions between the two Ministers. I shall certainly ensure that  Senator Baume  's further points are brought to the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I am sure that he, in consultation with the Minister for Health, will examine the applicability of the British arrangements to Australian circumstances. 

 -Yesterday Senator O 'Byrne asked me a question about an Australian made television series on China which he said was ignored by television companies in Australia. I referred the question to  Mr Staley  for reply direct to the honourable senator, but  Mr Staley  has provided a reply to me. I am advised by  Mr Staley  that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has auditioned the series 'The Human Face of China' and is currently negotiating with Film Australia, the program maker, for its purchase. Any decision by commercial operators to purchase it is presumably based on the usual commercial criteria but in any case is the prerogrative of such operators. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) No. 
2 ) Because of the location of the 3CR transmitter the field strength of the station is low in some suburbs of Melbourne. There are also some pockets within the nominal coverage area which do not receive an adequate service due to factors such as regions of low ground conductivity and abovenormal man-made interference. This is a situation which is largely unavoidable but, equally, there are areas outside the nominal coverage area which obtain an adequate service. 
Community Radio Federation Ltd has stated in its initial application for a licence that it is committed to discrimination in favour of the working class, including ethnic groups. 
Reception of 3CR in some areas, particularly the western and south-western suburbs where no doubt some migrant workers reside, is affected by the factors mentioned in the answer to (2) above. The level of interference and degradation of the available signal varies from daytime to night time. While interference is evident at night in some areas, reception during the day is quite adequate. The power of 3CR is not the primary factor affecting reception. 
3CR shares the lowest power of any non-national AM station in Australia, along with some other stations. Some ABC AM stations have even lower power than 3CR. 
On 25 August 1978, a telegram was sent to the station by my Department indicating that variations in the 3CR power level had been observed and asking the station to contact my Department as soon as possible. Earlier variations had also been observed. No accusations were made by my Department and the station did not accept that it was responsible for the variations. The station claimed that some unknown source caused illegal interference, possibly aimed at discrediting the station. 
No. 
1 wrote to 3CR on 12 January 1979 concerning, inter alia, the variations in the power level of the station. In addition, officers of my Department held discussions on this matter with  Dr Dayal  Abeyasekers, a lecturer in communications engineering at Swinburne College of Technology and consultant to 3CR. Further discussions were held with 3CR representatives at the PBAA Conference in Wodonga on 16-17 December 1978. 
Following the observations of increased power, the power output of 3CR was brought under constant surveillance by my Department with the full knowledge of the station. However, no further increases have occurred and consequently the cause of the increased power readings is not known. It is only possible at this stage to carry out intermittent power readings, trusting that the exact cause can still be determined should there be further occurrences. 
No. 
No. 
Australia is a party to the Regional Agreement reached in Geneva 1975 under the auspices of the International Telecommunications Union (The Geneva Plan). The agreement relates to the use of frequencies in the medium frequency bands with a view to improving the use of these bands. There is an agreed need to provide suitable protection and avoid the possibility of interference among MF stations and accordingly a directional aerial is essential in most instances where a power of I kilowatt is used. In regard to Australia, this need is greatest on the east coast where the bulk of radio stations are located. This policy is applied to all MF stations and not only public broadcasting stations. 
It is assumed that the commercial broadcasting station referred to is 6NW which, although only recently commissioned, was originally approved in July 1974 by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board according to practices used at that time. It is in an area where the potential of interference to other Australian services is very slight. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In November 1977, when the Government announced its 10 point plan for Tasmania, which followed from the Callaghan Report, the concept of a National Engineering Laboratory was under consideration by my Department. 
However, the concept was succeeded by a Department of Productivity proposal to establish a network for the coordination, development and promotion of technology transfer to Australian manufacturing industry. In August 1978 the Technology Transfer Council was formed, with the objective of establishing cost effective and practical services which will assist in the effective application of technology in Australian secondary industry. There is a vast amount of specialised expertise in various establishments throughout Australia, in private manufacturing concerns, in Government laboratories and engineering establishments and in tertiary institutions; and the Council is carrying out a program, based on proposals by my Department and the Institution of Engineers, Australia, to make this expertise available to enterprises in a way in which it can be assimilated by the small as well as the large manufacturers. 
A technical referral network is being established in the metals industry as a three year pilot program to prove the viability of the concept. The network will include a number of referral centres, which will be linked to organisations having a specialised technological expertise. These are intended to assist metal industry enterprises by bridging them to the most appropriate source of technology needed to meet their requirements. The first six referral centres should be operating by October/November this year, with an additional four planned to come on stream early in 1980. Depending on the needs of industry and the evidence of industry's increasing support for the scheme, these centres will be extended to serve other metals industry needs and eventually to provide services for other sectors of industry. 
With respect to Tasmania, in April 1978 a technical mission from my Department visited four precision engineering establishments in Tasmania. The mission assessed them as having some specialised technological expertise, which could eventually provide an input to the network. No doubt there are other establishments in Tasmania which could also contribute. 
My Department's Director in Tasmania is investigating the requirement by State industry for the setting up of a technical referral centre in Tasmania, and provided there is sufficient evidence of industry support and that funds are available, such a centre could be established in 1980. 
While the concept of a National Engineering Laboratory involved a different approach to providing assistance to industry and has not been proceeded with, it is believed that the technology transfer network which succeeded it will be able to provide a much wider service to industry than the laboratory could have done and at much less cost. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There have been extensive discussions between my Department, the Department of Defence and industry on Offset-AIP programs against the Tactical Fighter Force aircraft requirement. These discussions have been related mainly to work which may be placed on the Australian Aircraft Industry. I am advised that the Department of Defence has also held discussions with the electronics industry on participation in the TFF project, particularly in relation to upgrading Australian industry capability in the avionics area to meet Defence needs. 
In view of the competitive situation existing with four aircraft contenders under consideration it is not appropriate for me to provide specific details of proposals which have been formulated. These are being considered within the Department of my colleague the Minister for Defence who will make an announcement at the appropriate time. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Three advertising agencies were approached by the Australian Government Advertising Service on behalf of the Department of Industry and Commerce with a view to submitting a program for the Project Australia Campaign. 
Monahan Dayman Adams Pty Ltd was appointed by the Australian Government Advertising Service to plan and create the campaign. Media placement of the advertising is being arranged through the Australian Government Advertising Service using the services of the Government's main Placing/Charging agencies, in particular Fortune (Aust.) Pty Ltd and Berry Currie Advertising (NSW) Pty Ltd. 
Total expenditure on the Project Australia campaign in 1978-79 was $240,72 1 . This amount included expenditure of $105,879 on costs incurred with advertising agents. Total funds appropriated by the Commonwealth for Project Australia in 1979-80 are $ 1.5m. This appropriation includes $1,030,000 for payment to media and $175,000 for advertisement production. 
Ofthe 1 978-79 expenditure referred to in Part ( 3 fees totalling $59,879 have been charged direct to the Department of Industry and Commerce for Monahan Dayman Adams agency services associated with non-media advertising support activity (posters, emblems, et cetera). Separately, the services of that agency for planning, creating and producing advertisements to appear in the media and the services of the Government's media placement agencies are being paid for from a fund of media commissions and fees on all Commonwealth Government advertising held as a cooperative pool by the Australian Government Advertising Advisory Council, an independent organisation of advertising agents. Amounts paid by that Council result from negotiations between the agencies and the Council and by precedent are considered to be private information. 
-On 31 May 1979  (Hansard,  page 2418),  Senator Lajovic  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the following question without notice: ls the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that Qantas Airways Ltd and Air New Zealand Ltd have introduced a special low return fare of $A135 to apply during the June-August period. As this period is the winter season in Australia and New Zealand can the Minister provide the Senate with information about the likely effects of this move on the Australian winter tourist industry. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 25 May 1979, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  announced new interim off-peak promotional fares for travel between Australia and New Zealand. 
The new fares, introduced by Qantas and Air New Zealand on Trans Tasman Services, commenced on 8 June and terminated on 1 5 August. The cost of the new APEX fare Sydney-Auckland, Christchurch/Wellington was $AI32 which represented a reduction of $A49 on the previous off-peak APEX fare. Other new off-peak fares were offered from Brisbane and Melbourne and are provided in the table below. 
On 7 June 1979  Senator Douglas  McClelland asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that in many country areas, including areas covered by regional commercial television, great concern is being expressed by sports lovers that they will be denied what to date has been their right- namely, to watch allday telecasts of test cricket matches- because some of the regional commercial television stations have not yet made up their minds whether they will take, on relay, any part of the telecasts from the Channel 9 network? As I understand it, because of that fact no offer has  yet  been made by the Channel 9 network to the Australian Broadcasting Commission as to picking up the cricket. Because of the great concern being expressed about the matter in country areas, and especially those of New South Wales, will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to consider calling during the forthcoming parliamentary recess a conference of executives of the Channel 9 network, the Federation of Commercial Television Stations, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and the ABC in an endeavour to sort out the problem and ensure adequate telecasts of the test cricket matches next summer? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that all regional commercial stations have agreed to accept the test cricket proposals negotiated with the Channel 9 network. Details relating to the extent of coverage and scheduling arrangements for the program are of course a matter for the management of the individual station concerned. 
That passage now appears in  Hansard  more often than any other passage I can think of. It was referred to extensively in a debate in this place a couple of weeks ago. I will refer to  Mr Staley  the question of what his intentions are with respect to a special inquiry under the Act and ask him to respond to the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator raises a matter which could be quite serious. I will certainly draw it to the attention of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  As the honourable senator would know, State transport Ministers meet regularly as members of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which would be the appropriate body to take up this matter. I will draw it to  Mr Nixon's  attention and ask him to deal with it with some urgency. 
I have no personal knowledge of discussions of the sort mentioned by the honourable senator. They may well have taken place. I will ask the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  to provide the honourable senator with a reply to his question. 
-On 30 August  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question about the infant mortality figures which were published in the Northern Territory. He asked about the delay in providing those statistics. In fact,  Dr Charles  Gurd, who is the Secretary of the Department of Health in the Northern Territory, has replied directly to  Senator Keeffe,  but I think that as this is a matter of general interest and of interest to a number of honourable senators I should provide the Senate with the gist of that reply.  Dr Gurd  has advised that the Northern Territory Department of Health continues the practice established in Commonwealth days of publishing a quarterly bulletin and annual report. Both those publications are brought up promptly. Bulletin Issue No. 23 for the first quarter of this year reported the infant mortality rates for 1978. A copy of those rates was sent to  Senator Keeffe. 

 Dr Gurd pointed out that the Aboriginal infant mortality rate last year was 48.1 deaths per 1,000 live births. That figure is significant because in 1977 there was a very worrying figure which, for the first time for many years, showed an increase in the infant mortality rate. That figure went up to 77 deaths per 1,000 live births, whereas over a period of years there had been a drop to around the 50 mark. I am very pleased, and I am sure all honourable senators will be pleased to learn that the drop has been resumed. 
Just why there was that bad year in 1 977 is something which I have not been able to determine. I thought that the Senate should have its attention drawn to that response from  Dr Gurd  although it was sent directly to  Senator Keeffe  by the Northern Territory Department of Health. 
I make one further comment which arises out of  Dr Gun:  's letter. The figure of 48. 1 deaths per 1,000 live births is still, of course, a very unsatisfactory figure when compared with that for the general Australian population. In the Northern Territory the figure for non-Aboriginal infants, 9.7 per 1,000, is lower than anywhere else in Australia. That quote is from  Dr Gurd.  There is a substantial discrepancy between non-Aboriginal and Aboriginal infants and that, of course, is a matter for concern. However,  Dr Gurd  draws attention to the fact that in many countries there are very much higher rates- for example, some as high as 200 per 1,000 live births. That is not in any sense a cause for satisfaction; it merely gives the lie to the suggestion that Aboriginal infant mortality rates are the highest in the world, a statement which is sometimes made irresponsibly, and, I am sure, out of an excess of genuine concern, but which is simply not true. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
-This item of detail in the portfolio of Post and Telecommunications has slipped by me. I apologise to the honourable senator for that. I understand his concern about the cover featuring a man with a cigarette drooping from his mouth. I can only say that whether or not that is good or bad depends on the apparent condition of the man from whose mouth the cigarette is hanging. If the man appears miserable, depressed and obviously wracked by paroxysms of coughing the cover may have a useful, educative effect. If, on the other hand, he is bright-eyed, shining and a general picture of good health, I am sure it will be extremely damaging to the people of Queensland. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, so that he can nip it in the bud- or, perhaps, in the butt. 
On behalf of  Senator Webster  and for the information of honourable senators, I present a review of the Australian National Gallery's activities for the year 30 June 1979. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport and seek a detailed reply. 
I do not have any official advice on the report to which the honourable senator has referred, but I have seen in the  West Australian  of today's date a report which sets out broadly the facts which have been raised by the honourable senator today. 1 must say that it is consistent with the knowledge I have of Radio Australia that it should be so well received in China. In every country where it is heard it seems to have an enthusiastic listening audience and provides a service of which Australia is entitled to be proud. Our exporters will no doubt take note of the fact that if one gets one's product into a country that has a decent size market, an obvious result flows therefrom. 
If the report is true, and this sort of response has been received from the Chinese people, it is a matter which will no doubt be of great encouragement to our broadcasters. I would have thought that the unbiased and newsworthy information which is provided by Radio Australia would on occasion be very welcome in many of the countries to which it is beamed. I will refer the detailed matters to  Mr Staley  and seek information. I do not know whether additional staff will be provided, but I am sure  Mr Staley  will be anxious that this sort of impact should be continued. 
Having not honoured the last undertaking I gave to the honourable senator I am a little reluctant to give him any further undertakings. I recall providing the answer to which he referred in his question. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed that the receipt of this material from his Department has been delayed pending finalisation of some engineering aspects. He, like me, extends his sincere apologies for this further delay. He has advised me that he expects to be in a position to write to the honourable senator about the details of the project before the end of this week. I make that statement with all care but no responsibility. 
I do not think there is any thought in the mind of the Government to ban all Liberian tankers, which I understand is what the honourable senator suggested in his question. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that an inspection of the tanker  World Encouragement  by officers of the Department of Transport revealed no reason why any action should be taken against even that vessel. In that case the spillage was caused by the vessel being holed during an operational mishap while berthing and not by any continuing defect which might have given rise to criticism. I am further told that an investigation currently is under way by the Department of Transport and the New South Wales Maritime Services Board which will indicate whether any special steps are necessary to avoid such mishaps in the future. 
I am afraid that the extent of the information I have is that it was a mishap. I am not able to answer that question. 
-I understand that there are standard criteria for establishing when a public telephone should be installed. I do not have the detail, but I will ensure that it is provided to the honourable senator. I am also not aware whether a smaller, less expensive telephone is being designed. I do know that there are difficulties in designing telephones which are too small and too inexpensive because of the constant problem of vandalism. It is necessary for them to be of a robust design which will withstand ill-treatment, which unfortunately they get on occasions. Once again, this is a matter on which I will see that the honourable senator receives more detailed information. 
I can confirm that tenders were called last year, that the tenders received were not regarded as satisfactory, and that tenders were subsequently called again, I think in January of this year. It was either late last year or early this year. I am not able to give the honourable senator the detailed information he has requested. I will obtain it from  Mr McLeay  and let the honourable senator have a reply as soon as possible. 
-Last Wednesday, 12 September,  Senator Harradine  asked a question without notice concerning aids to assist deaf persons to view television news broadcasts. I indicated that I would ask  Mr Staley  to provide, direct to  Senator Harradine,  information on two points on which 1 was unable to provide an answer. The Minister has now informed me that the nature of the current Teletext trials is such that a decision on the possible use of this system to assist deaf persons will not be possible before the commencement of Deafness Awareness Week, the first week in October. As to whether the Minister would take up this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal,  Mr Staley  feels that this step would be premature until a decision on Teletext or any other type of system was taken. 
-Last Thursday  Senator Ryan  asked a question without notice concerning media ownership. In reply I indicated that I would refer her question to  Mr Staley,  seeking his intentions with respect to a special inquiry under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. This issue was, of course, discussed at some length by  Senator Ryan  and other senators during the urgency debate on 30 August 1979.  Mr Staley  has informed me that, as always, he is happy to consider any matters raised by the Tribunal and in the light of its decision in the Channel 10 inquiry and remarks made by honourable senators opposite during the debate on this question, he is giving this matter his close attention. Any decision concerning a possible inquiry will be announced at the appropriate time. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  and pursuant to section 16(1) of the Dairying Research Act 1972, 1 present the seventh annual report of the Dairying Research Committee for the year ended June 1979. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment and for the information of honourable senators, I present two agreements, one between the Commonwealth of Australia and New South Wales and the other between the Commonwealth of Australia and Western Australia, in relation to the provision of financial assistance for projects related to the environment for 1978-79 made under the provisions of the Act. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  and for the information of honourable senators, I present an interim statement of the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year 1978-79. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  and for the information of honourable senators, I present the interim annual report of the Australian Dairy Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1 979. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the interim annual report of the Australian Electoral Office 1 978-79. This is the final report but it is not in a final form. It is to be reprinted with photographs and is made available for the reasons already outlined. 
by leave- This statement was put down in the House of Representatives last week because it was responding to a House of Representatives Committee report, but I think it should be available to the Senate. I seek leave to incorporate the statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

On 14 April 1976, my predecessor the  Hon.  Ian Viner requested the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs to report on the alcohol problems of Aboriginals. I wish now to report to Parliament on the findings of that Committee, and on action taken by my Department in relation to the report. The terms of reference suggested by  Mr Viner  for the report were: 
To examine the impact of alcohol on Aboriginal communities. 
To examine the social and other causes of the excessive use of alcohol in some Aboriginal communities. 
To examine the advantages which might be gained by Aboriginal communities which face problems associated with alcohol from the experience which other communities have gained in successfully dealing with similar problems. 
To examine the operation of laws including liquor laws in Australia in relation to the impact of alcohol on Aboriginal communities. 
To consider the adequacy of Australian law in tradition-oriented Aboriginal communities, and possible ways to assist them to develop approaches to alcohol created behavioural problems based on traditional strengths and methods of control. 
To recommend ways of assisting Aboriginal communities to overcome problems associated with the excessive use of alcohol, and of reinforcing Aboriginal initiatives in this regard. 
The Standing Committee lodged an interim report on Northern Territory aspects of the Aboriginal alcohol situation in September 1976, and on 1 November 1977 tabled its final report in the House of Representatives. 
In relation to the first term of reference, that is, the impact of alcohol on Aboriginal communities, the Committee concluded that Aboriginal people with low socio-economic status in metropolitan areas and on reserves near or on the fringes of country towns often have serious alcohol problems. The Committee noted that a large proportion of these people are very poor, and that their drinking patterns often reflect those of non-Aboriginals in similar circumstances. Different situations occur in traditional Aboriginal communities. For example, outstation communities, or small kinship groups which have moved back to their traditional lands, were found generally to have fewer alcohol problems than large multi-tribal communities. 
Passing to the second term of reference, the Standing Committee considered that a number of psycho-social and environmental factors cause alcohol problems in various Aboriginal communities. These factors include, and I quote, 'low socio-economic status', 'a lack of motivation and purpose', 'stress and frustration resulting from cultural conflict', 'expression of group solidarity', and the 'expression of equality resulting from racial prejudice and discrimination'. 
In its examination of possible initiatives to deal with alcohol problems based on the experience of other communities, the Committee received little evidence of punishments inflicted under traditional law on persons affected by alcohol. The Committee therefore decided to widen this third term of reference to encompass alcohol prevention and treatment programs which concern Aboriginals. These programs, which include Aboriginal-run alcohol rehabilitation centres, drop-in centres, sobriety groups, Aboriginal Alcoholics Anonymous groups and community-based alcohol counsellors, were supported by the Standing Committee. Most of these activities are funded through my Department. 
The Committee's conclusions are varied on the operation of liquor and other laws as a means of controlling the sale of alcohol and alcohol abuse. The Committee found that a number of communities have experienced considerable difficulty in successfully opposing liquor licences affecting them in deleterious ways. Other communities have not found licensing legislation to be sufficiently flexible to enable community control over such factors as hours of opening, and types of alcohol to be sold. 
As the question of possible recognition of Aboriginal customary law was referred to the Australian Law Reform Commission in February 1977, the Committee did not report on its fifth term of reference, the adequacy of Australian law in traditional communities. The Commission's report should be invaluable in providing examples of the operation of traditional authority systems and dispute solving mechanisms, and ways in which these systems can be reinforced by non-Aboriginal legal authority. 
In making its recommendations on ways to assist Aboriginals to overcome problems associated with alcohol abuse, and to reinforce Aboriginal initiatives in these matters, the Committee divided its comments into four areas. These were prevention, treatment, co-ordination and other measures. The Committee recommended that emphasis in the development of Aboriginal alcohol programs be given to preventive measures and suggested a range of measures to counteract the psycho-social and environmental causes of alcohol misuse it perceived. These measures include continued improvement of environmental conditions, support for outstations, increased support through Commonwealth and State law for Aboriginal communities wishing to limit their alcohol consumption, support for alcohol education programs, and alternative methods for the payment of social security benefits. In addition, the Committee recommended that laws prohibiting the sale of alcohol to intoxicated or under age persons be more rigidly enforced. 
As regards treatment programs, the Committee recommended continuing support for Aboriginal-managed alcohol rehabilitation, counselling and related support services, subject to governmental evaluation of their effectiveness. As regards co-ordination, the Committee recommended that there be adequate consultations with Aboriginals and that they participate fully in all matters affecting them. It also recommended that the Aboriginal alcohol situation be overseen by Aboriginal-controlled co-ordinating committees which should be established in all States and in the Northern Territory. 
Other measures recommended by the Committee were .that the effectiveness of decriminalising drunkenness in the Northern Territory be assessed, and that initiatives be taken by the Commonwealth in relation to the collection of statistics on Aboriginals. 
The Committee's recommendations have been the subject of detailed examination by my Department and other Commonwealth Departments in a series of inter-departmental meetings in 1 977, and subsequently in relation to the preparation of a submission to Cabinet on the Final Report. 
I now turn to action which has been taken on the recommendations of the Report. 
Sixteen of the 28 recommendations made by the Committee relate to policies or programs being carried out by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in conjunction with other Departments. (Recommendations 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28.) In relation to prevention, my Department has been providing substantial financial assistance for some time to State and local government authorities and Aboriginal communities and organisations to improve the environmental conditions of Aboriginal people. Assistance is also given by my Department and others to improve non-material aspects of the environment- employment, education and recreation facilities for example. Support is also given to Aboriginal communities wishing to simplify their lifestyle by moving to outstation communities away from large settlements or missions. 
My Department in conjunction with the Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence and the National Committee for the Prevention of Alcoholism also promotes the attendance of Aboriginal people at seminars on the prevention of alcoholism in Aboriginal communities and in the wider society. Finance for this purpose is provided by my Department and the Department of Education. 
Emphasis in my Department's alcohol program has so far been given to the establishment of Aboriginal-run alcohol rehabilitation centres, follow-up programs and to the development of Aboriginal-controlled alcohol coordinating committees. In December 1977, an additional $750,000 was provided by my Department to establish alcohol projects in each of the States. These projects include treatment centres, community support services aimed at prevention aspects, and sponsorship of postrehabilitation support groups such as Aboriginal groups following the Alcoholics Anonymous philosophy. Funding was also provided to Aboriginal alcohol co-ordinating committees in South Australia and Western Australia. In 1978-79 my Department provided $I.8m to a total of thirtyfour Aboriginal alcohol projects. 
Recommendations 2 (concerning cultural sensitisation programs for Government officers) and 6, 10 and 1 1 (concerning the use of law to support decisions of Aboriginal communities to prohibit or limit alcohol consumption) require both Commonwealth and State examination. In respect of Commonwealth consideration recommendation 2 will be referred to the IDC on 
Co-ordination in Aboriginal Affairs and I have raised recommendations 6, 10 and 1 1 with the Minister for Transport and the AttorneyGeneral. In respect of State consideration these recommendations together with 9, 22, and 23 (concerning licensing provisions) and 28 (concerning statistics about Aboriginals) were referred to the May meeting of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council (AAAC). In addition it is proposed that the Government should draw to the attention of State Governments these eight recommendations, while inviting them to have regard to the general content and spirit of the Report. 
Some of the issues involved in the Committee's recommendations concern the manner of payment of Social Security benefits. There is a scheme in operation which provides for bulk payment of unemployment benefits in some communities. In some other communities Community Development Employment Programs administered by my Department have displaced the need for unemployment benefits. I am discussing with the Minister for Social Security options in relation to the wider application of these schemes. 
Recommendation 26 on the effectiveness of decriminalisation of drunkenness in the Northern Territory has not been implemented as support services which were to have accompanied the legislation have not yet been provided. Since 1 July 1978 the Northern Territory Government has assumed responsibility for these matters in the Territory. 
In concluding I would like to make some general comments in relation to the Aboriginal alcohol situation. 
Firstly, I wish to point out that alcohol abuse is not unique to Aboriginal society. It is, as the members of this Chamber are aware, increasingly being recognised as a problem of substantial proportions in our so-called advanced society. The Report of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- An Intoxicated Society' has made this point clearly enough. It is only in recent times that any concerted effort has been made at Government level to approach the problem in the general community. 
Alcohol problems among Aboriginals obviously include complexities not encountered in the non-Aboriginal situation- I have already referred to the conclusions of the Committee in this respect. Because of these complexities the involvement of Aboriginal people and communities would seem to be necessary in all aspects of 
Aboriginal alcohol programs: in defining the exact nature of the problems, in developing suitable policies, and in planning and implementing effective programs. 
I have indicated that until now, the main concern of my Department has been to provide rehabilitation facilities of a kind acceptable to Aboriginal people with alcohol problems, and that expenditure through my Department for these projects in 1 978-79 was approximately $ 1 .8m. 
While these figures reflect substantial effort by those involved it must be acknowledged that the approaches adopted are still quite experimental. In addition, the effects are not always clearly evident and in some cases organisations have encountered various operational difficulties. Thus it is difficult to fully evaluate the effectiveness of Government expenditure on Aboriginal alcohol programs. 
A final aspect which adds to difficulties in administering programs in this area concerns the institutional arrangements that have arisen in recent years. These arrangements have resulted in a complex and in some respects confusing framework of responsibilities. There is therefore a need to examine and improve organisations. Areas in which greater co-ordination is seen to be needed are consultation, the development of preventive and treatment projects, the formulation of policy, and the administration and financing of programs. My Department is examining these issues. 
I make no claim that we have found adequate solutions to the problem of alcohol which besets many communities. A number of relatively recent initiatives will take time to evaluate, e.g. the Northern Territory legislation which anticipates special licensing conditions being imposed in particular areas in response to community demand, and the legislative initiative in Western Australia which will permit a couple of isolated communities to make by-laws including laws relating to alcohol. Many of the Aboriginal organisations working in the alcohol field are comparatively new and I anticipate that their skills will improve over the next few years and they will achieve greater results with the support of my Department and other agencies. We cannot ignore, however, that some communities are being decimated by alcohol to an extent which makes it difficult to remedy the problems which might be seen as the cause for drinking. Accordingly, I have asked the Council for Aboriginal Development and the National Aboriginal Conference through its State branches to give this problem early consideration in the context of the 
House of Representatives Committee report but not to feel limited by the recommendations contained in that report. I also welcome further views and suggestions from members of this Parliament, many of whom have taken a close interest in Aboriginal affairs generally and in this aspect in particular. 
I have prepared a statement which lists each of the Standing Committee's recommendations and the current position concerning those recommendations. Copies of this statement were distributed to honourable senators when it was tabled by my colleague in the House of Representatives. Further copies are available in the Senate Records Office. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs' answer to Question No. 1074 (Senate  Hansard21  August 1979, pages 48 to 5 1 ). 
Capital Territory: Transfer of Power to the States  (Question No. 1099) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is responsible for the determination of the quota for the broadcasting of Australian music performances by Australian commercial radio stations. 
The Tribunal is at present discussing with the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters and others interested an increase in the quota from the existing level of 20 per cent to an ultimate level of at least 30 per cent. 
2 ) The placement of a tariff on imported master records is of course a matter for the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Many of the more hilly areas of Sydney and the surrounding metropolitan area have had television reception problems since services first began. There is no simple solution to these problems but following extensive engineering investigations, a broad plan has now been developed to improve reception by establishing a number of translator stations in the UHF band. 
Initially translators arc scheduled for construction at North Head and Kings Cross to serve areas of eastern and central Sydney, and northern Sydney where television reception at the moment is unsatisfactory. The commercial translators, which will bc operational ahead of the national translators, are expected to commence within the next twelve months. The provision of translators in further areas is under investigation and will be established as soon as resources permit. 
I echo the feeling of honourable senators behind me that that was a good question. I will seek a good answer for it. 
I will refer that series of questions to the Minister for Transport for reply. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is correct that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission transmitted a television signal between Moree and Canberra through an Intelsat satellite on 2 1 and 22 February 1979. These transmissions were experimental trials, conducted for demonstration purposes during the Domsat 1979 Seminar convened by the Australian National University. 
No objection was raised to the holding of the trials in view of the obvious benefits that would be obtained from the reactions of the many eminent people who were attending the seminar. 
Under those circumstances, and. in view of the short duration and nature of the trials, it was considered inappropriate for licences to be issued for the occasion. 
I refer briefly to the speeches made during the adjournment debate by Senators Missen, Harradine and Baume, all of which related to events in 
Czechoslovakia. As a member of Amnesty International, I do not feel free to add to their comments because it is a matter for the Government. They have all addressed their speeches to the Government, requesting certain action. I simply say that I will take the contents of those speeches to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and seek a response for them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 1 1.35 p.m. 
The honourable senator raises a matter which is no doubt of great interest to all honourable senators who fly in and out of Canberra very frequently. I was not aware that that shuddering sensation that I have experienced was because of square tyres. I am indebted to the honourable senator for that information. I thought that it was trepidation about the food that was to be served that was affecting the passengers. I will refer the matter to  Mr Nixon  to see whether this peculiar effect on nylon tyres has been noted by his Department, what investigation has been made and whether the sort of detailed inquiry which the honourable senator suggests is required is in the interests of air safety. 
The question raised by the honourable senator I am sure will be of great interest to the music lovers of Perth and, perhaps, some others. I am not aware of any reason why Perth does not have an FM radio station. I think there was some questioning about this last year. I will take up the matter with  Mr Staley  to see what action can be taken. I suppose that the people of Canberra have just been subjected to FM radio as an experiment. Now it has been found to be acceptable to them, the rest of Australia might benefit. 
I understand from the Minister for Transport that specific proposals have been made by domestic airlines to open routes between Hobart, Darwin, and Port Hedland and various regional countries. In addition, they have indicated interest in opening further routes in the longer term. The airlines have been asked to discuss their proposals with Qantas in the first instance. This is necessary because of the Government's decision that Qantas should continue, at least until 1 98 1 , to be the sole Australian airline authorised to operate international air services in its own right. Services on any new routes opened by the domestic airlines would need to be operated for the time being under charter arrangements with Qantas. This would not prevent new services from being established by the domestic airlines. I understand that the Minister for Transport is awaiting advice on the outcome of talks between the domestic airlines and Qantas on the matter. 
I should add that an additional factor to be considered would be the feasibility and cost of providing services or facilities required at airports that are not presently international gateways in order that they might accept international flight operations. With regard to the reaction of other countries, New Zealand authorities have advised that they would have no objection in principle to a new route being opened by Australia between Hobart and Christchurch. However, details and any compensating benefit required by New Zealand for its own airline cannot be pursued with that country until a comprehensive proposal has been agreed upon by the domestic airlines and Qantas. No approaches have yet been made to other countries because at present insufficient detail is available on services the domestic airlines would wish to operate to allow useful discussion with authorities in the various countries concerned. 
-I think it is true that not all of the homes destroyed by the cyclone referred to by the honourable senator have yet been rebuilt. I understand that there were discussions between the Commonwealth and the State Government at that time and it was arranged that moneys would be provided through programs of my Department to assist in the rebuilding of those cyclone devastated centres. In fact, the program has run behind the plan put down for it. As a result, there has been some underspending of Commonwealth provided funds in Queensland over the last three years. Those funds have been repaid, as is required under the arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States when funds are not expended for the purpose for which they were granted. I think that deals with the major points raised by the honourable senator in his question. However, I will examine the question in  Hansard  and let him have more detail if it is required. 
-I will obtain that information for the honourable senator. 
My attention has been drawn to the article referred to by the honourable senator. I am advised that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications is aware of the allegations made in the article. The Special Broadcasting Service has for some time also been aware that difficulties were being experienced and has recently commenced investigating methods by which the situation should be improved. Since the inception of ethnic broadcasting, payments for volunteer program contributors, which are based on the number of hours of broadcasting, have increased to $55 an hour. These payments were made to program coordinators on the understanding that they would arrange disbursements to all contributors. Legal accountability of the Special Broadcasting Service stopped at the point where the payments were made to the co-ordinators. However, occasional queries by individual broadcasters caused the SBS to look at the internal distribution procedures. 
On 20 October 1978 the Special Broadcasting Service issued a Press release about its restructuring plans. Amongst other major changes, it has been decided that payments for all contributors to all programs could be rationalised. An interim system of payment ensuring the distribution of all moneys by all co-ordinators was introduced. The details of this rationalisation are still under discussion with the Broadcasters Association, which represents ethnic broadcasters. 
Like  Senator Justin  O 'Byrne 's question, this one is of great interest to honourable senators, as well as to the travelling public generally. I am advised that the Government's preliminary information is that the aircraft model involved in the Air Canada occurrence is not fitted with a ventral stairway, that is, the rear exit in the aircraft that we have in Australia. It has an emergency exit or escape hatch in the rear pressure bulkhead. None of this particular type of DC9 is operated in Australia. There have been previous reports of cracking in DC9 rear pressure bulkheads overseas, and also in Australia. Australian inspection procedures were reviewed earlier this year in order to cater for the problem. 
The honourable senator asks what action is currently being taken. I am advised that detailed information is being sought by the Department from the Canadian and United States authorities, and from the manufacturer, in respect of the present occurrence, to determine whether any new aspects are revealed as a result of it, and whether those new aspects, if revealed, might require additional action on our part. Of course, this is in addition to any recommendations or directives which might originate from the authorities or from the manufacturers as a result of their separate investigations. So the matter is receiving immediate attention. 
-On 10 May 1979  Senator Puplick  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal entitled 'Television and Children' which indicated that a large percentage of children had asked their parents to purchase items which they had seen advertised on television, that in the overwhelming majority of cases parents had bought the items advertised, and that the most popular advertising among children related to food and confectionery items? 
Further, has the Minister seen the report that the United States Federal Trade Commission has recommended that all television advertising aimed at children under the age of eight be banned, and that all television advertising of presweetened and artificially sweetened products aimed at children under the age of 12 be banned? In light of these findings and the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on advertising in children's programs, will he ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to give urgent consideration to enforcing stricter guidelines for advertising during children's television programs? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is presently considering the reports referred to, and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, which has responsibilities in the area of television advertising content, has advised that the advertising to children of sugared food products is being examined by a working party ofthe National Health and Medical Research Council. In deciding upon an appropriate course of action, the Tribunal will take into account the findings of the Council relating to the health aspects of the matter as well as advice from its own Children's Program Committee and the views of the commercial station operators. 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) and (2) The information required is contained in the following tables: 

 - Senator Gietzelt raises a series of matters of which, I must confess, I have no knowledge at all. May 1 explain that the Department which I administer gives grantsinaid, I think, to something like 1,000 organisations. I have to confess that the detail of all those organisations does escape me. However, I tend to hear about the ones which have difficulties and troubles. No one has drawn my attention to the allegations contained in the question asked by the honourable senator. I think it would be clear to all honourable senators that the allegations raised by the question are extremely serious. I will, of course, investigate them as soon as possible and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
My attention has been drawn to that article. It is not correct that the allowances set out in the article are payable to members of parliament travelling overseas alone or with their wives. The confusion arises with respect to whom the allowances are payable. The allowances shown are in fact the allowances paid to Ministers who are travelling overseas. I can understand  Senator Lajovic's  wanting the distinction to be drawn. I am sure all honourable senators are aware of the facts related to these matters. The Remuneration Tribunal provided in its last determination- as it has done in the past- for financial assistance to all senators and members to enable them to travel outside Australia for the purpose of undertaking studies and investigations of matters related to their duties and responsibilities as members of parliament. The financial assistance which is available is for fares only and no travelling allowance is paid when one is using that entitlement. 
The information in the  Sun  relates to the increases in advances paid to Ministers travelling abroad in the discharge of their portfolio responsibilities. I emphasise that the allowance is payable only in those circumstances. I point out that Ministers do not receive a travelling allowance as such but an advance against anticipated costs. Any unspent amounts are repayable to the Department of Administrative Services. The recent increases in advances were in line with rises in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's consumer price index. This index measures price changes in OECD countries, including Europe, North America and Japan. 
I understand that in the broad the facts mentioned by the honourable senator in the early part of his question are correct. Certainly the surveillance of part of the Western Australian coast is in the hands of the company to which he referred. That company is foreign owned and, I think, owned by shareholders in Hong Kong. As far as the matters of the quarantine team, the reference to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and any reconsideration to the stationing of a helicopter are concerned, I will refer those to the responsible minister and ask him to give them consideration. 
I understand that interested parties were invited to register their interest by 2 p.m. on 2 July, but not to the exclusion of subsequent registrations. A number of expressions of interest were received subsequent to that time. It is not the usual practice to disclose the number of firms registering interest. In this case I can say that interest has been keen. A number of people have been interested in the matter. As result of these expressions of interest, the Department of Administrative Services is about to enter the second round of negotiations by inviting firm tenders from registrants. To facilitate this, the Department of Health has prepared a common data pack of financial and commercial information relating to the group. This will be available to registrants when tender documents are distributed in the near future. It is expected that an announcement of the successful tenderer will be made by the end of 1 979. 
-The first part of the question will be dealt with when I provide a further answer to the question  Senator Keeffe  asked yesterday. I am aware of a substantial problem with trachoma, not only in Queensland but also in other parts of Australia. Honourable senators would be aware of a survey conducted right around Australia this year by the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists and paid for by the Government. A very full report has been prepared. Treatment was administered during the survey. That report is in the process of completion and 1 expect to receive it in the relatively near future. It is certainly true that there is a serious problem with respect to trachoma. It is receiving attention from the medical profession and from the Government. I hope it is a problem that we will be able substantially to alleviate over the coming years. 
It is not a matter in this case of  Mr Porter's  justifying the return of moneys. Any moneys returned in the health area have, on my understanding, been returned because of the actions of the Department of Health in not spending the money in Queensland.  Mr Porter's  department has been concerned with respect to other money in relation to housing. It is not possible, I believe, for a Federal Minister to make certain that funds directed to States are expended. It is possible for the Commonwealth to require that funds made available are spent in a particular area. If they are not spent, the most the Commonwealth can do is to request that they be refunded. That is the practice which is followed and the procedure which has been established. 
I would have thought that, fairly clearly, there is a need in future for a closer and better working relationship between the Commonwealth and Queensland than has existed in the past. Over the past 10 months I have expended considerable efforts in trying to achieve a better working relationship. I believe that in part that has been achieved and that we will see improvements in the future. 
-On Tuesday,  Senator Rocher  asked a question without notice concerning response to Radio Australia's broadcasts in China. I further advise the Senate that  Mr Staley  has now advised me that the volume of mail received into the Radio Australia post box in Peking as quoted by  Senator Rocher  is correct, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission is presently examining methods of coping with the heavy influx. The Australian Embassy in Peking has provided assistance to the ABC in handling the mail. However, because of the volume it has been suggested that the advertisement of the box number cease until the mail can be cleared. The ABC has now done this in its Radio Australia broadcasts, pending a resolution of the administrative difficulties associated with the handling of mail volumes of this size. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs' answer to question No. 1074 in  Hansard of 2  I August 1979. 
Subsequent to the Minister's reply, I announced to Parliament, on 22 August 1979, that although the promotion of domestic tourism is primarily a State and industry responsibility, there is a need for co-ordinated action at the national level. The Australian Tourist Commission is the appropriate body to undertake such umbrella promotional activities. 
Consequently the Government has decided to provide $500,000 over the next two years for domestic tourism promotion with $200,000 included in the 1979-80 appropriation of the Australian Tourist Commission. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs' answer to Question No. 1074  (Ilansard.  21 August 1979, pages 48-51). 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes a number of representations have been received from amateur radio organisations and amateur radio operators expressing concern about possible extensions to the use of channel 5a ( 1 37- 1 44 Mhz). 
There is a possibility of interference from channel 5a to amateur stations and of interference from amateur stations to viewers of channel 5a. Both possibilities may be reduced, however, by judicious selection of operating frequencies by the amateur radio operators concerned. 
I can assure honourable senators that I regard the welfare of Ministers as very important. I will refer the question to the Minister for Administrative Services and seek a reply. 
On behalf of  Senator Webster  and for the information of honourable senators, I present the Department of the Capital Territory annual report 1 978-79. 
I have some advice which has been sent to me by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on the matter of telegram charges. It may be of some assistance to the honourable senator who is concerned about the report in the  Australian.  I am advised that in 1977-78, after allowing for tariff increases and cost reductions, the public telegram service recovered from telegram users only 50 per cent of the cost of providing the service. In effect, telephone subscribers are paying about $9 a telephone service to meet the telegraph service's losses. Had the charges remained at the 1 974-75 levels, telephone subscribers would be subsidising the telegram service by more than $12 a telephone service. That is, obviously, a matter of concern to all Australians who have telephones. 
The new system, which has a fixed charge related to the method of delivery, ensures that the telegram will be delivered by the fastest means possible. This will usually be by telephone or telex. In the case where a messenger service would provide the fastest means of delivery, this would be used. Alternatively, if Telecom judges that the use of a messenger would be a more appropriate means for delivery of such messages involving death, greetings or congratulations, it would use this means. The aim of Telecom is to provide for the fast delivery of a message. Under some circumstances this can best be achieved by telephone or telex delivery in preference to messenger delivery. However, either the sender or the addressee has the option to specify messenger delivery, where provided, if full rates are paid. 
The policy that Telecom follows is to encourage its customers to adopt the least-cost method of delivery by reducing the fixed charges where the telegram is to be delivered by telephone, telex or mail. It seems to me that that is a very reasonable approach for Telecom to adopt. The problem that Telecom faces is shared by many areas of service where traditionally there has been a very high labour content. Of course, the cost of labour is a very big element in the cost of any organisation. The measures taken simply acknowledge that fact. 
The matters raised by the honourable senator in his question are not known to me and I have no information about them. With respect to his question as to whether something is an unusual occurrence, I am quite sure that it would be an unusual occurrence. In saying that I have no wish to be taken as adopting what has been put forward by the honourable senator as being the fact. I will refer the matters to the Minister whom I represent in this place and seek a reply in detail for the honourable senator. 
I did hear the radio program referred to by the honourable senator in his question. A couple of things said certainly raised questions in my mind. I would like to make it quite clear to the Senate that in Queensland the Federal Government has been pursuing a Federal Government policy which - 
-We will come to that matter later. The Federal Government has been pursuing a policy in Queensland with a very clear view as to what it wants to achieve. The policy which we have with respect to Aboriginal affairs is, I think, well known. Within all of the States of Australia we have been trying to promote the ability of Aboriginal people to live their lives independently of government and other agencies. We have also been trying to ensure that Aboriginals have greater security than they have had historically with respect to the land on which they have traditionally lived. We have pursued that policy in all parts of Australia. It is a policy which has to be pursued delicately and with care, bearing in mind the Federal structure of this country. On that matter, I must say that  Senator Bonner  has always been a very valuable source of advice to the Government because of his background. He has lived with the difficulties - 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

Some honourable senators may have taken the trouble to read  Senator Bonner's  recently published biography, which sets out very graphically the difficulties that  Senator Bonner  faced in his early life in common with many other Aboriginal people. I commend the biography to those honourable senators who have not read it. I emphasise that the Commonwealth Government is pursuing policies which have been carefully considered. It may be of interest to honourable senators to know what point we are at with respect to the promotion of those policies. Many honourable senators would know that during the whole of this year we have been pursuing courses which are aimed at finding solutions to the problems which exist- solutions which will be accepted as being proper ones by the three groups that are clearly involved. They are, firstly, the Aboriginal people themselves; secondly, the Government of Queensland; and thirdly, the Commonwealth Government. 
I was very well served by the people of Yarrabah who last January wrote to the Commonwealth Government and requested that it enter into discussions with the Queensland Government aimed at establishing land rights or secure tenure over their land. Those talks in fact have been pursued. As recently as a week or two ago  Dr Edwards,  the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, and I met with the Council at Yarrabah. We had a most useful and helpful discussion from which will flow further discussions between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government during October, after which there will be a further meeting at Yarrabah between the people of Yarrabah and State and Federal Ministers. These lines of inquiry are being pursued in the belief that if we are to help the Aboriginal people of Queensland properly we need to ensure that all of the agencies concerned are pushing in the same direction. That is certainly the objective I am pursuing. I believe that the events of the last few weeks and, I hope, the events of the next two months will demonstrate that that is a positive course to be following. I hope that I will continue to have the assistance and advice of  Senator Bonner;  but it will be Government policy that is being pursued. 
There has been a long series of questions from Opposition and Government senators in this chamber about the Stuart Highway. I will miss  Mr Virgo,  the previous South Australian Minister of Transport, whom I used to blame for his lack of effort in this matter. In more recent answers I have given in this place I have been able to indicate that in fact there has been an increase in the allocation of funds for the Stuart Highway in the current year. I am not surprised that the South Australian Liberal Government is anxious to complete the highway; that is in line with the energetic attitude that it has shown in its brief period in office. I was not aware of the magnitude of the losses that South Australia apparently suffers to Queensland. I assume that occurs because trade goes to 
Queensland rather than to South Australia. I am also not aware of the statement which the honourable senator claimed was made by the Prime Minister. I will refer the matters which have been raised by the honourable senator to  Mr Nixon  for his consideration. I will see what can be done along the lines requested. 
I was not aware of the two licence fees to which the honourable senator has referred, but I agree that marine radios do have a very important role to play in reducing the problems which occur at sea and the likelihood of having to undertake expensive searches. I am not able to comment on the extent to which the difference in licence fees reflects a difference in servicing costs or something of that nature. The honourable senator has raised a serious matter, which I will refer to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for consideration and reply. 
-Many honourable senators will recall that when the land rights legislation was passed in 1976, it provided that the law governing permits to enter Aboriginal land would be dealt with under Northern Territory law and not under the land rights legislation direct. The passage of that legislation here was followed by the passage of legislation in the Northern Territory which, in general, was in accord with the views of a parliamentary committee on which various honourable senators served. It appears that there was a defect in that legislation- I am sure an unwitting one- in that the permits that were provided to be issued to officials did not cover officials of the Commonwealth. In fact, since that defect was discovered the Northern Territory Government has moved to amend its legislation to ensure that Commonwealth officers can have permits issued under the Northern Territory legislation. The matter rests there for the time being. 
I have not read of any threats of the sort which have been alleged, and I very much doubt that they would be made as they would smack of misprision of felony. I will put the question to the Minister responsible and see that a reply is provided to the honourable senator. 
-On Wednesday, 19 September,  Senator Wheeldon  asked a question concerning the development of the Australian Broadcasting Commission FM facilities throughout Australia.  Mr Staley  has now informed me that the Government is committed to providing a national FM radio service throughout Australia as soon as possible. The existing service is being extended to all States in an orderly progression as funds permit. Stations have been established in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra. Programming for the service originates in Adelaide and is relayed via the existing Telecom telecommunications network to those cities. Factors which favoured the early establishment of FM stations in these cities included the availability of suitable transmitting towers and a means of relaying programs. Construction of FM stations in the remaining capital cities and some regional centres is continuing in the current financial year, 1979-80, and a service at Perth is expected to commence in June 1 980. This station was expected to commence as early as February 1980; however, contractural and engineering problems experienced by Telecom Australia as the construction authority have resulted in delaying the opening until June. 
-Last Tuesday, 18 September,  Senator Townley  asked a question concerning public telephones.  Mr Staley  has informed me that the main criteria used by Telecom Australia for determining the location of public telephones include the service needs of local residents and the travelling public; the availability of other coin telephone facilities and subscribers' services in the area; and the need to ensure a reasonable revenue return in order to offset to some extent the capital and annual costs involved. As to whether Telecom is considering the introduction of a smaller, less expensive public telephone, I understand that although continuous efforts are made to reduce public telephone installation costs, Telecom does not intend to review the design of the current multipurpose telephone which is currently being installed throughout Australia to replace the older units. The current unit provides users with the kinds of facilities normally available on private telephone services and affords the maximum practicable protection from acts of vandalism. The Australian unit compares favourably in terms of cost and size with overseas units providing similar facilities and protective safeguards. Of the 32,000 public telephones in service, 14,000 have been equipped with the multipurpose unit. A modified version of the unit is being tested for use as a leased coin instrument for those who desire additional facilities to those provided by the leased local call ' Red Phone '. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  and pursuant to section 3 (7) of the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation Act 1978, 1 present the report for the final period of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, 1978 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report thereon. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  I seek leave to make a statement relating to the commencement of the 200 nautical mile Australian fishing zone and to move a motion that the Senate take note of the statement. 
Leave granted. 
I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

I am pleased to inform the House that the Governor-General has approved the proclamation of 1 November 1979 as the date on which the provisions of the Fisheries Amendment Act 1978 not yet in force are to come into operation. From that date Australia will have a 200 nautical mile fishing zone in accordance with international law. Australia will thus join with the other Pacific Forum countries which have extablished similar zones in accordance with the Port Moresby Declaration of September 1977. Within the 200 nautical mile Australian fishing zone- AFZ- foreign fishermen will be in breach of the Act unless they have the necessary Australian licences and they will be required to comply with terms and conditions of access determined by Australia. 
It will be recalled that when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  introduced the Fisheries Amendment Bill 1978 in the Parliament last year, he pointed out that when the zone commences, we will have international obligations with respect to management of the fisheries resources to ensure their proper conservation and optimum utilisation. These objectives are set out in what will become section 5b of the Fisheries Act. To give effect to its obligations, Australia will, as appropriate, determine total allowable catches, the amount of the allowable catch that will be taken by Australians and the allocation to foreign countries of any available surplus. Foreigners will not be allowed access to fisheries fully exploited by Australians or likely to be so in the near future. In time, as Australians develop the necessary capacity to operate in those fisheries where they do not now operate, the allocation to foreigners will be reduced accordingly. The Government hopes that ultimately, Australians will harvest the whole of the allowable catch but in some fisheries, this may take some time because of economic and productivity factors. 
Foreign boats allowed to fish in the AFZ will fall into three categories: Foreign fishing under bilateral arrangements, feasibility fishing and commercial joint ventures. The most numerous initially will be those licensed for purely foreign operations, normally in accordance with government-to-government fisheries agreements. In concluding such arrangements in pursuance of Australia's jurisdiction over the resources of the zone we will be acting to ensure maximum benefits for Australia and the protection of the interests of Australian fishermen. 
Last year the Minister for Primary Industry sought applications from Australian companies in conjunction with foreign interests wishing to carry out feasibility fishing projects. The Government has approved a number of ventures involving interests from Japan, the Republic of Korea, the United States of America and Poland to carry out these projects. They are intended to assess the extent and commercial viability of harvesting unknown or little known resources in the AFZ. They provide a relatively low cost means for Australia to evaluate off-shore fisheries resources. They are limited to a maximum of two years and will not entitle either foreign or Australian participants in them to any exclusive or preferential rights in any fishery that may develop. Information gained from these projects will be made available to the Australian fishing industry to assist assessment of whether commercial development by Australians, solely or with foreigners in commercial joint ventures, is feasible. At all times, the Government will give preference to purely Australian operations in the AFZ. 
I now turn to the details of bringing the relevant provisions of the Fisheries Amendment Act 1 978 into operation and thus establishing the AFZ. Under the definition of 'Australian Fishing Zone' the AFZ includes only waters that are proclaimed waters' under section 7 of the Fisheries Act, and does not include any waters that are proclaimed to be 'excepted waters' under section 7a of the Fisheries Act. Also, it will not include any waters that are specifically excluded from the AFZ by appropriate terms in an international agreement with another country. 
It is therefore important to understand the specific steps that will be involved. As the first step, the Governor-General has approved a new proclamation of 'proclaimed waters' which will replace the proclamations presently in force, and will govern the application of the Fisheries Act to Australian fishermen and, pending the establishment of the AFZ, foreign boats within the existing 12-mile 'declared fishing zone'. This proclamation will be published in the Gazette of 26 September 1 979 and will come into force on that date. The 'proclaimed waters' will include all waters beyond the territorial limits of Australia or of another country and that are within 200 nautical miles of Australia. Australia for this purpose includes all islands that are part of a State, including Macquarie Island, Lord Howe Island, and all islands that are part of the Northern Territory. The States and the Northern Territory will continue to administer fisheries inside the threemile territorial sea, in accordance with and subject to the arrangements that have been agreed under the off-shore constitutional settlement successfully concluded with the States at the recent Premiers Conference. 'Proclaimed waters' are now also to include all waters within 200 nautical miles of each Australian Territory, other than waters within the territorial limits of other countries. I wish expressly to refer in this regard to the fact that the waters up to 200 miles off the Australian Antarctic Territory are to be covered by the new proclamation. 
The next step after the proclamation of proclaimed waters' will be the coming into force, on 1 November next, of the provisions of the Fisheries Amendment Act 1978, relating to the AFZ. The AFZ, in which Australia controls the operations of foreign fishermen as well as of Australians, also extends 200 nautical miles from the baselines. However, the AFZ would overlap with the existing or prospective 200 mile zones adjacent to Australia's neighbours. Except in the case of Papua New Guinea, to which I shall refer separately, the Government has decided that, pending conclusion of delimitation negotiations with these countries, median lines in accord with Australia's maximum legal entitlement should be used for the interim delimitation of the AFZ in areas between Australia and its neighbours. By agreement with Papua New Guinea pending the entry into force of the Torres Strait Treaty, in the area between Australia and Papua New Guinea the Australian fishing zone will extend to the fisheries jurisdiction line described in the Treaty, except in the protected zone where existing areas of jurisdiction south of the line will be maintained. Fisheries jurisdiction will also be exercised within the three-mile territorial seas around Australian islands north of the fisheries jurisdiction line. Negotiations on permanent maritime boundaries with Indonesia began in February. Two rounds of negotiations have been held and these will be continued. Discussions also have been held with the Solomon Islands. It will be necessary to enter into similar negotiations with New Zealand and France. 
The Proclamation approved by the GovernorGeneral apply to the waters within 200 miles of the Australian Antarctic Territory. The application of the Fisheries Act to waters adjacent to the Australian Antarctic Territory is based on Australia's sovereignty over the Australian Antarctic Territory. The Government proposes to recommend an additional step under the Act with regard to those waters. As already mentioned, the amendments to the Act last year enable the Governor-General, by Proclamation, to declare any proclaimed waters to be 'excepted waters'. When introducing the amending legislation I pointed out that the concept of 'excepted waters' provides the Government with flexibility to delay or exclude the application of the Australian fishing zone in certain areas. Against the background of the Antarctic Treaty and Australia's current involvement with other Antarctic Treaty countries in negotiations for the conclusion of a Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, the Government proposes to recommend to the Governor-General that, in all circumstances, the appropriate course at this time is to take the further step of excepting AAT waters from the AFZ. The exception will not affect the application of the Fisheries Act to any Australian fishing activities off the AAT. 
In view of our close relations with Japan and the long-established presence of Japanese fishing vessels in waters off Australia, we commenced negotiations on access to the AFZ first with the Japanese Government. The negotiations have concerned a head fisheries co-operation agreement, a subsidiary agreement covering access for tuna long-line vessels, and related matters. Negotiations by officials have now concluded and the resulting agreement is under consideration by the Government prior to the formal signing of the documents. While the Head Fisheries Co-operation Agreement will remain in force for a minimum period of two years and will provide the basis for our future fisheries relations with Japan in the context of Australia 's extended maritime jurisdiction, the Subsidiary Agreement covering the access of tuna longline vessels is for one year. In line with international practice, 
Australia reserves the right to review the terms of foreign access to the AFZ on an annual basis to enable responsible management of the resources in the AFZ and to protect the interests of the Australian fishing industry. Under this Subsidiary Agreement, the Japanese side has agreed to the payment of an access fee of $ 1.4m which will include their vessels ' statutory licence fees and to the continuation of technical assistance for the benefit of the Australian fishing industry. The technical assistance program has been in operation since early 1976. In addition, the Japanese Government. has provided certain assurances on access to the Japanese market for Australian fish and fish products. Details of the Agreement will be made available following its acceptance by both Governments. 
Talks have also been held with Taiwanese commercial interests concerning access, albeit on a smaller scale than current operations, for trawlers and gillnetters to waters off the north and north-west of Australia. The Taiwanese represent the only other substantial foreign fishing presence within 200 miles of Australia. As we do not recognise Taiwan, we have held discussions with Taiwanese fishing interests and their Australian agents. The results of the talks are now under consideration by the Commonwealth and the relevant States with a view to finalising arrangements to enable licences to be issued prior to the commencement of the AFZ. The arrangements will provide for severe penalties for illegal fishing activities, and in discussions with Taiwanese fishing industry leaders it has been made clear that access to the AFZ is dependent on cessation of illegal activities, in particular, the clam boats in the Great Barrier Reef. Negotiations have also been held with the Republic of Korea concerning a head fisheries co-operation agreement and arrangements for access to fisheries not exploited by Australians. These negotiations will be resumed shortly. No timetable has yet been set for negotiations with other countries. 
The Commonwealth appreciates the importance which the States attach to fisheries matters. Throughout the period of preparation for the AFZ, the Commonwealth has maintained continuous consultations with the States and has kept them informed of the progress in negotiations. Among the matters under discussion with the States are the role of State officers in enforcement of the rules applicable to the AFZ and in gathering information on foreign fishing operations there. Commonwealth officials are presently studying the basis on which the States are reimbursed for enforcement activities carried out on behalf of the Commonwealth, to see whether that basis will continue to be suitable "or work in the AFZ. The Government has provided funds for observer activities undertaken by the States for the Commonwealth. While the Commonwealth, in co-operation with the States, will determine the systems for gathering information and will undertake its collection, processing and distribution, the finished data will be published and made available to the fishing industry as well as to government agencies, State and Commonwealth. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced in July of last year details of the Government's upgraded civil coastal surveillance program which, among other matters, was designed to take account of the need to enforce Australian fishery laws after commencement of the AFZ. The legislative systems that have been devised for the AFZ will supplement the physical surveillance that the Government will need to provide. For example, licensed boats will be under a legal obligation to report their positions in the AFZ every two days, to obtain advance approval to enter the AFZ, to leave it, to enter an Australian port, or to travel in the AFZ outside their authorised fishing area. Within the next two years the Government will be reviewing surveillance arrangements as foreshadowed by the Minister for Transport in his statement. Apart from certain direct financial benefits, such as access fees, which will flow to the community from the AFZ, the Government anticipates that other benefits will flow, for example, to the Australian fishing industry as it increases its share of the total allowable catch; to the fish processing industry, which may handle a portion of the foreign catch as well as the expected increase in domestic production; and to traders and local authorities in ports to which licensed foreign boats are granted entry rights. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Fisheries and Oceanography and the Department of Primary Industry have been strengthened to meet the need for fishery research and management of the AFZ. The charter by CSIRO of the 50 metre fishing research vessel  Soela  will further strengthen Australia's fisheries research capacity. Fishery research and management in the AFZ will continue to be co-ordinated through the Australian Fisheries Council. 
I have spoken at some length and in some detail on the Australian fishing zone. The Government regards it as a significant event in Australia's maritime history, bringing the living resources in an area of sea nearly equal to that of the Australian land mass under Australian management, together with the associated benefits and responsibilities. The AFZ is not a gold mine. We need to accumulate a great deal more knowledge of the physical characteristics of the zone itself and of its fish resources. The Government is cautiously optimistic that as our knowledge increases, the AFZ will prove to be a valuable asset, capable of yielding continuing economic benefits. It is our intention to manage the AFZ with that objective always in view. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on the hire of pot plants. 
Leave granted. 
Although the statement is very short, in view of the wish of the Estimates committees to meet, I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

In August 1978 the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations reported on expenditure by Commonwealth departments on the hire of pot plants. 
The Committee accepted that the hire of pot plants could be justified on the grounds of economy, flexibility in the use of open plan office space and to provide an aesthetically pleasing work environment. The Committee noted the comment that the concept is a management tool and should not be chosen simply for prestige reasons or used without understanding. 
The Department of Administrative Services, in consultation with the Departments of Productivity and Housing and Construction, is continuing to develop guidelines for the use of Commonwealth office space and to this end will study how pot plants can be used effectively and economically. 
The Committee's report has been noted by the Government. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (b) I am aware that there have been discussions between Connair and other interested parties on the possible sale of Connair shares or assets. The Government is being kept informed of developments and is liaising with the Northern Territory Administration. As far as 1 am aware no agreement has been reached on any sales. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There is no direct evidence of increasing popularity of motorcycles for private transport, due to higher petrol prices. Until some 12 months ago, petrol prices represented a decreasing proportion of average income, although this trend has reversed in the past year. Total motorcycles on register at 30 June increased in each year from 1965 to 1977 but decreased in 1978. However, the number of new motorcycles registered decreased in each year from 1973-74. Official figures for June 1 979 are not yet available. There are no Australian data demonstrating the precise relationship between choice of vehicle type and petrol prices. 
(a) Commonwealth Government expenditure on road safety in general, for each year from 1 974-75 is set out in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) The Adelaide to Crystal Brook Rail Standardisation Agreement of 1 974 with South Australia provided for the construction of a standard gauge rail link between Adelaide and Crystal Brook. That Agreement provided for South Australia to construct and own the standard gauge line on the Commonwealth's normal 70 per cent grant- 30 per cent loan standardisation terms. Since then the South Australian non-metropolitan railways have been transferred to the Commonwealth. So far no decision has been taken by the Government to commit further funds to this project, and there is accordingly no timetable. I understand however that there is currently under examination a proposal by the Australian National Railways Commission for standardisation of the line by 1 984, by conversion of the existing track, and by the construction of approximately 40 km of new line. 
The alternative of converting the existing broad gauge line to mixed gauge by laying a third rail for standard gauge running has been evaluated in the past. I am advised that third rail operations over the railway line in question have been found unacceptable for cost and efficiency reasons. 
Commonwealth Committee on Cyprus (Question No. 1881) 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Transport for a reply. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The Minister has answered the question. 
I will seek a reply to that question from the Minister for Industry and Commerce. 
The bankruptcy matters which were raised by  Senator Tate  and spoken to by  Senator Harradine  this evening were originally raised by  Senator Tate  in the Senate yesterday. I am advised by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the matter has been referred to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who is examining the matters raised by  Senator Tate.  I will ensure that the remarks this evening of  Senator Tate  and  Senator Harradine  are also referred to the Minister. With respect to the matters raised by  Senator Mulvihill,  I understood him to say that he was concerned to set the record straight and to get certain views into the public arena. I will see that those views are brought to the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have been made aware that Australia Post is proposing to produce a Christmas stamp carrying the Yugoslav flag. I was made aware of that by objections I received from constituents, which I referred to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I am also aware that Apex is the only world-wide service club founded in Australia, and I declare a past interest in that organisation. I was not aware, however, that there had been a refusal to issue a commemorative stamp. In the light of the facts which have been put before the Senate by  Senator Lewis,  I will discuss the matter with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and get a response to the substantial part of the question. 
It is my understanding that arrangements are being made to enable the Nomad to be used, or at least tested, in the system of surveillance which is being established by the Government. I will seek the information which has been sought by the honourable senator on those points and let him have a reply as early as possible. I might say that since the earlier questions on the Nomad were raised by  Senator Bishop  and other honourable senators, I have had the opportunity to use the Nomad in both the northern and southern parts of Australia. I must say that I was most impressed. I am sure that it has a very useful role to play in Australian aviation. 
I have seen reports that  Mr Porter  proposes to visit Europe in the near future to present another side of a case which is currently being presented in Europe. As most honourable senators would be aware, a number of Aboriginal people have visited Europe and have put across a highly unfavourable picture of Australia and its treatment of Aboriginal people. Notwithstanding the very serious problems which continue to exist in Australia with respect to the lives of many Aboriginal people, I think that very often those people to whom I have referred present a distorted and exaggerated picture and do Australia a great disservice. I regret some of the things said about Australia overseas by Australians. 
I hope that if  Mr Porter  goes overseas, as I have read in the papers that he will, he will fairly present the position as it exists, warts and all. I hope that he will agree with those who will put it to him that there are continuing difficulties in Australia but will state that the Australian Government and the State governments have many programs which are aimed at removing the difficulties which exist. As for using my influence with  Mr Porter,  I simply repeat what 1 said before. 1 have an objective to achieve better working relationships with the Queensland Government and to ensure that in those areas where there are policy differences between the Commonwealth and the State those differences are reduced to a minimum so that the efforts of both governments are devoted to improving the lot of people and not to disputing amongst themselves as to what ought to be done. 
I cannot give the precise figures that the honourable senator requests in his question. My experience of this situation has been related to areas where constituents have made representations about particular public telephones. From that I am aware that many public telephones which are installed do not carry the actual cost of installation. I think that some run at a loss. I will seek further detail from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
I am advised by the Minister for Transport that infringements of agreed international air fares by airlines would be contrary to the interests of the travelling public and of the airline and travel agent industries. Arrangements with other countries on the new fares are consistent with Australia's Air Navigation Regulations which, in common with those of most other countries, require that international airlines should not charge less than the approved tariff. It is not anticipated that arrangements with other countries about new fares would necessitate any change to the Air Navigation Regulations. The administration of the Air Navigation Regulations is the responsibility of the Department of Tra nsport. Any system of self-regulation among the airlines such as that operated by the International Air Transport Association would properly be a question for the airlines themselves. 
I will seek a reply from the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  to the questions that have been raised by  Senator Keeffe. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government recently appointed  Dr Robin  Sharwood as an acting member of the Tribunal and the Government is currently giving consideration to the appointment of another member to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
It has struck me as odd that more fresh fruit is not served on Australian airlines. Like most honourable senators I spend a great deal of time in aeroplanes and I eat a great deal of the processed food that is served on them. On the rare occasions that fruit has been served- in my own personal experience it would be only two or three times in the last five years- I thought it a welcome contrast. There may be technical problems because of the restriction on the passage of fruit from the east to the west. The honourable senator will be aware that fruit is collected at certain points because of the desire to prevent the spread of fruit fly. I will refer the matter to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  with the suggestion that he in turn refer it to the airlines which are independent in the matter. I think that it is a most worthwhile suggestion. 
Over a number of years the Government has indicated that it regards the outstation or homeland movement as a very positive movement among Aboriginal people. It is positive in the sense that the movement usually occurs away from centres where groups of Aboriginal people from different tribes, families and so on have been gathered together and where there has been a growth of tension and a social dislocation resulting in antisocial behaviour and often excessive drinking and things of that sort. The movement back to homelands or to outstations represents an escape from those pressures. 
The movement itself gives rise to other problems. Notwithstanding the fact that once at an outstation one is likely to find that there is better social order, that drink is less of a problem, that diet improves and even, it is thought, that health improves, clearly there are problems in the areas raised by the honourable senator in his question in the delivery of services. These problems greatly concern various functional Ministers, including  Senator Carrick,  who went to a number of outstations with me during the recess and who has, on previous occasions, taken a personal interest in this matter. 
A number of functional departments continue to have responsibilities with respect to outstations. The Commonwealth has retained responsibility for assisting outstations in the Northern Territory, but departments such as Health and Education are closely concerned with the need to provide facilities. I cannot say that the problems of delivering services to the outstations have been solved by any means. They have been raised with me as a matter of concern by a number of State Ministers, including the Minister for Education in Western Australia,  Mr Jones,  who has urged us to try to restrain movement away from existing centres without a lot of forward planning. This will enable the State to meet the particular requirements of the people when they do go to outstations. 
There are shared responsibilities in this area. It is the role of my Department to try to co-ordinate the work of the State, Territory and Commonwealth departments which are involved. If we have not done that perfectly in the past, and I suspect that we have not, that is a matter for regret. However I hope that most honourable senators support the very real alleviation of social problems that this movement represents and put up with some of the difficulties that it poses. 
-On 25 September,  Senator O  'Byrne asked me a question concerning contaminated waste in a Singapore steel plant involving private interests. He referred in that question to confidential advice, regrettably leaked to the Press, as to how the matter should be handled by the Government. The Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs- it is clearly a matter which falls within the Foreign Affairs area- has provided me with the following reply: 
I would like to emphasise that Australian representatives abroad arc charged with the general responsibility of protecting and advancing Australian interests. This involves them quite properly in making recommendations on how best these interests might be served. Their advice is considered but not necessarily followed. I would simply restate what has already been confirmed in the present case, that no approach was made to the ABC. The Government has not sought to do other than confirm the facts of this matter which it hopes can be satisfactorily resolved between the commercial parties involved. I should add 'that the Government regards it as important that the news media should be able to cover international issues factually and as comprehensively as possible. 
Additional to this information, it is a fact that Commonwealth responsibility for radioactive waste management rests with the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  I am informed that the Department of National Development is maintaining contact with officials of the Western Australian Government and of the Australian companies concerned on this matter. 
-On Tuesday last,  Senator Rae  asked a question without notice concerning increases in marine radio licence fees. A large number of representations have been made on this subject. I am advised that the figures quoted by the honourable senator in his question are correct. Marine radio licence fees have been increased to $37 per annum. Land based citizen band radio licence fees are $25. CB radio licence fees were not inluded in the recent increases. The concern of many volunteer search and rescue associations and other boating organisations is appreciated. In many cases such groups provide a valuable service to the community. The views which they put to the Minister are reasonable and will be carefully considered by the Government. For this reason  Mr Staley,  the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, has instituted, within his Department, a comprehensive review of the scale of licence fees payable for radio communication services. This is a complex exercise and will take some time to complete. However, the Minister has directed that it will be a high priority task and that some options on restructuring the scale will be submitted to him at the earliest possible date. 
Also on Tuesday last,  Senator Townley  asked a question without notice concerning a report in the  Australian  about increases in telegram charges which will be effective from 1 October 1 979. 1 was able at that time to give  Senator Townley  information which had been provided to me by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I have been further advised by  Mr Staley  that he also is concerned about the administrative uncertainties associated with the arrangements, and he has sought urgent clarification from Telecom Australia on the point raised by  Senator Townley.  He will provide additional details to the honourable senator as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The security deposit may be requested before or after a telephone service is provided if the subscriber is identified as a former customer who defaulted on a previous service or had a history of late payment. is insolvent under parts IX or X of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1973. is a proprietory limited company with minimal paid up capital and not having leased a previous telephone service. has not provided credit information requested. the credit information supplied does not support a reasonable credit standing. 
The Authority emanates from Telecommunications (General) By-Law 13 associated with the Telecommunications Act 1975. It is exercised by the occupant of nominated positions in the Customer Accounting area to which the Commission under Section 33 of the abovementioned Act has formally delegated the relevant powers. 
The short term objective is to obtain a minimum security commensurate with known facts and thus, the amounts vary according to the information available about the customer's capacity to pay. In the longer term this amount may be varied according to the level of usage of the service and the promptness with which bills are paid. 
Telecommunications Act 1975. Telecommunications (General) By-Law 13. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission's First Report on Special Assistance for the Northern Territory 1 979. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission Report on Special Assistance for States 1979. 
It must be very obvious to the gallery that I have an old seaman in front of me and an ex-commander behind me and that I am all at sea. I think the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition is a very good one, and I should seek a more detailed analysis of the position. My advice is that the use of the word 'ship' in the present context is not new. But I do not seek to cross, I suppose it would bc sabres or cutlasses, with the Leader of the Opposition on the point. I will seek advice on the matter and ensure that he does get a more considered reply. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
$2,03l,000. 
(a) $500 (b) $260. 
(3)- 
I think that I can give a categorical assurance to the honourable senator that no slight or discrimination was intended in the omission to which he drew my attention in his question. 
It may well be true that there was an oversight. I certainly will examine that matter and see what can be done. I would comment that one of the current issues of great debate in the circles in Australia which are interested in the position of Aborigines is just where the Aboriginal people did come from when they came to Australia. That is a matter on which the academics seem totally unable to agree. It may be that that state of uncertainty has contributed to the omission in this case. 
-A Commonwealth-State committee has reviewed Perth's civil airport needs to the end of the century and has recommended that Perth Airport, which is at Guildford, be retained and developed as the sole primary civil airport for Perth. The Commonwealth and State governments are at present considering this recommendation, concerning which no final decision has yet been taken. With regard to the second point raised by the honourable senator, I can confirm that the Dutch Airline, KLM, has been granted rights to operate through Perth, but that at this stage the Government has not been advised as to when the airline intends to take up this option. I have no knowledge of any other international airline-having recently received such approval. 
With respect to the third part of the honourable senator's question, I say that a project has been included in the current civil works program in order to provide early relief in the international arrivals area of the terminal and that, subject to funds being available in the next Budget, an item has been proposed in the 1980-81 program for expansion of the international departures check-in area. In the longer term, the master plan that is currently being prepared for Perth Airport will make provision for a major expansion of terminal facilities. ., 
The last part of the honourable senator's question related to the relocation of Department of Transport personnel. It is a basic planning philosophy that activities which need not be located in terminal buildings should be accommodated elsewhere, if that can be achieved economically. At this time, planning in relation to the Perth terminal is such that the travelling public would gain very little benefit by the relocation of the Department of Transport staff currently housed in the terminal. The problems relating to passenger handling capacity, with which the honourable senator and I are all too familiar, relate to the ground floor of the terminal whilst the Department of Transport staff are located on the first floor, mainly at the rear of the building. In the longer term it is planned to relocate as many activities as possible elsewhere, consistent with overall planning for the airport and terminal development. 
I am advised that recommendations for appointment to the Australian Tourist Commission are the responsibility of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In considering these appointments he is obliged to comply with the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967. Section 6 of that Act requires that two representatives shall be persons nominated by the governments of all the States. It is under this section of the Act that State representation is provided. The State representative is usually the State director of tourism. He serves a two-year term in accordance with the rotational arrangement agreed by the State Ministers responsible for tourism. If the Australian Capital Territory is to be represented on the same basis as the States, as suggested by  Senator Knight  in his question, it will be necessary to amend the Act or seek agreement of the States to include the Territory in the rotational arrangement mentioned earlier. 
And the Northern Territory. I thank the honourable senator. In either case, consultation with the States will be necessary, but I doubt that the inclusion of a representative of the Australian Capital Territory will be agreed to by all the States. I will draw the matter to the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce so that he can give it his attention. 
The honourable senator raises a matter which has been raised in the Senate by him on a number of occasions and reflects his concern at the difficulties caused by the State of South Australia and the State of New South Wales in getting arrangements with respect to vehicle emission controls. I have no doubt that the election of the new government in South Australia represents a chance to ease the problem in this area as in other areas. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport and ask him to take up the suggestion of the honourable senator. 
On behalf of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence  (Senator Carrick)  I seek leave to make a statement relating to the termination of the Turana Target Aircraft Project. 
Leave granted. 
I seek leave to have the text of the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Defence has accepted the advice of his Department to terminate the Turana target aircraft project. He gave appropriate direction to the Department four weeks ago but delayed informing the Parliament prior to the tabling of the Auditor-General's report. 
Turana is a small radio-controlled jet aircraft similar in appearance to the Ikara antisubmarine missile. It was developed out of the successful Ikara project, with the objective of providing the Royal Australian Navy with a ship's gunnery and missile target. One particular requirement which was sought was the simulation of sea-skimming missiles. 
It was invisaged that, carried aboard Ikara fitted vessels, and as a consequence compatible with the Ikara system, Turana would give RAN ships an independent capability to use target aircraft. 
The work on Turana was assigned to the Government Aircraft Factory at Fisherman's Bend, Victoria. That factory had produced remarkable results with the Jindivik and Ikara projects. 
Work "on Turana commenced in 1969. The original concept was for 41 aircraft to be introduced into service. 
Flight trials were held in 197 1. They were encouraging. The risks associated with further development appeared acceptable. They were accepted. An initial order for 12 aircraft was placed in March 1971. 
Further trials commenced in mid- 1972. Since then the project has run into a series of research and developmental difficulties. The difficulties, while profound, were not completely daunting. Having regard to the encouragement which earlier trials had offered, the judgment was that research and experiments should continue. 
In 1 975 there was a review of the project. It led to a modification of some of the specifications. A re-design phase took place over the period 1976 to 1978. 
In November 1978, a further series of trials was conducted. Professional judgment was that, without substantial further investment, the level of reliability required of all operational target aircraft such as Turana could not be achieved. 
The Minister had a series of consultations with officers involved in the project. He looked closely at the prospects and the likely orders of cost. It was with regret that he decided he could see no alternative but to accept the advice that the project should not be taken to a further stage. 
I do not disguise my disappointment. However, I am bound to say all of us should understand that when you are involved in work which is in the forefront of technology you must be prepared to take risks. There never has been- and I doubt if there ever will be- assurance of success available in carrying out experiments with high technology. Failure is always in prospect. 
It deserves to be said that risks on the same scale were also carried in the highly successful Jindivik and Ikara projects. 
Hindsight is the strongest of all sight. It is very easy to make harsh judgments of the past. Successes in the past may have encouraged greater confidence in the Turana project than was justified. The Minister does not believe that past decisions about Turana were wrong. Those decisions had to be made. Comparable decisions will continue to be made. They are an absolutely indispensable feature of defence science activity. 
The Minister's predecessor in 1975 was faced with the results of a technical review which, to put it mildly, were not encouraging. He had the courage to direct that the project was not to be abandoned at that time. 
The RAN's gunnery practice requirements will continue to be met with targets towed by aircraft and with Jindiviks. The requirement for a fast, manoeuvrable sea-skimming target, organic to RAN vessels, cannot be met at this stage. 
May I say that no navy is yet in a position to meet this requirement- a fact which lends point to my earlier remark about Australian work at the forefront of technology where frustrations must inevitably occur from time to time. 
As with all such work, the non-achievement of the immediate, specific objective, is not the end of the story. Without the Turana endeavour, Australia's impressive expertise in the field of remote-controlled aircraft would have withered. Instead it has been maintained, expecially in the areas of flight vehicle control, mathematical modelling of guided weapons and target aircraft, and methodology for controlling the thrust vectors of rocket motors and telemetry. 
Such knowledge is of direct relevance and benefit to the latest Jindivik development (the Mark IV, which we are jointly progressing with the United Kingdom), and to the recently announced trainer aircraft study. There are also other projects emerging where the expertise amassed out of Turana will be taken further forward. I can make mention at this time of Turana 's outstanding flight control system, and also its miss-distance indication systems. Both will have direct application in new projects. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 77ie  speech read as follows- 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority needed to meet the prospective deficit in the consolidated revenue fund in 1979-80. 
At the same time it will, together with authorities expected to be available under other legislation, provide the borrowing authority needed to finance the estimated overall budget deficit for the financial year. 
Honourable senators will be aware that, for many years, there has been legislation for these purposes in the legislative programs of successive governments. 
In the Budget Speech it was announced that the prospective overall budget deficit for 1 979-80 is estimated to be $2, 1 93m. 
Except in so far as funds are available from accumulated cash balances or other miscellaneous financing transactions, this deficit must be financed by net borrowings. Such net borrowings must, of course, be within proper legislative authority derived from the Parliament. 
The overall budget deficit takes into account all relevant transactions of the three separate funds used to record the Commonwealth's receipts and expenditures. 
These funds are the consolidated revenue fund, the loan fund and the trust fund. 
The amounts which may be paid from each fund are limited to the amounts legally available to it. 
Underlying the overall deficit estimated for 1979-80 is an estimated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $ 1,604m. 
Details of the current estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund transactions are set out, for the information of honourable senators in Table 3 of Budget Paper No. 4- Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1980. 
As payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot exceed moneys available in it, it is necessary either to reduce payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund by charging to Loan Fund some expenditures normally met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or, alternatively, to supplement the receipts of the Consolidated Revenue Fund from some other source. 
Appropriate legislative authority is needed for such transfers. The simplest and traditional means of providing appropriate legislative authority is a Loan Bill of the type I am now presenting. 
This Bill will authorise borrowings for defence purposes in order that defence expenditure, which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, may instead be met by the Loan Fund. 
The Bill authorises borrowings for defence purposes. I should make it quite clear, however, that it does not authorise any defence expenditures additional to those which have already been authorised by Parliament in Supply Act (No. 1) 1979-80 or which will subsequently be authorised in Appropriation Acts for this financial year. 
It will simply allow reallocations of defence expenditures between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund to be made during the remainder of the financial year, following the enactment of this legislation. 
In this regard I draw the attention of honourable senators to Clause 8 of the recently introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80, which makes that Bill subject to the provisions of the proposed Loan Act. 
I should also mention that, as borrowings under this legislation will be for the purpose of financing defence expenditure, those borrowings will not require approval from the Australian Loan Council. 
The Bill includes a specific limit to the amount of such borrowings that may be undertaken. This limit is directly related to the level of defence expenditure which is expected to be made from the date of enactment of the Bill to 30 June 1 980. Honourable senators will be well aware that, at this early stage, the estimate of the Consolidated 
Revenue Fund deficit is inevitably a qualified one. The actual figure for the year will be affected by presently unforeseen developments during the year which could cause departures from current estimates of receipts and payments of the fund. 
In setting a limit on borrowings for inclusion in the Bill these inherent uncertainties need to be recognised. The limit that has been included is $ 1,800m. This provides a reasonable margin over the estimated Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit of $ 1,604m. 
Borrowings under this proposed legislation will be undertaken within the framework of the monetary policy objective to which the Treasurer referred in his budget Speech. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank those honourable senators who have spoken for the relatively concise way in which they have tackled this substantial piece of legislation. As has been made clear, the legislation has been before the Parliament on a number of occasions. In fact, it first saw the light of day in almost its present form under the previous Government. Its history has been amply discussed. It has the support of both sides of the Parliament and I think that it would be fair to say, in summary, that the matters that have been raised by honourable senators generally add to the Bill rather than take from it. In many cases they are already under consideration by both the Commonwealth and State governments, where appropriate, and one can expect action to be taken on many of them. 
I cannot deal with all of the points that honourable senators have raised but will certainly refer the remainder to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and seek a response.  Senator Gietzelt,  who led for the Opposition, was in error when he said, as I understood him, that because the States would be introducing complementary legislation concerning some of the conventions in the Bill, there would be further delay even though this Bill might have been passed by this Parliament. I am advised that the Bill does not envisage any delay while State legislation is awaited; that the saving clauses, which give the States a foot in the door, also provide that in the absence of State legislation the 
Commonwealth legislation shall apply. Thus, there would be no hiatus or delay and  Senator Gietzelt  need have no worry on that score. 

 Senator Gietzelt and  Senator Elstob,  and I believe also  Senator Mulvihill,  stressed the need to have additional Australian ships in international trade. They referred to Australia's position as a trading nation and to the relatively small percentage of Australian-owned ships which participated in that trade. Comment was also made, especially by  Senator Gietzelt,  about the effect of that upon our balance of payments, a matter which he said was sometimes of great concern to this country. The Government would acknowledge the fact that invisibles, of which shipping costs are a significant part, represent an important element in our balance of payments. Once again, as so often happens with legislation such as this which does not have a partisan content, the differences between honourable senators are relatively small. 
Rather than speak at length on the Government's policy I will direct the attention of honourable senators to the reply by  Mr Nixon  in the House of Representatives. He pointed out that the policy of the Government was to encourage the use of the Australian flag in foreign trade. The proviso that the Government puts on this- and it may be the point of difference between it and the Opposition- is that it expects to do so only where that would be commercially sound and would not involve the consumers bearing an additional cost or the Government providing a subsidy. I am sure that  Senator Gietzelt,  who at times has in a formal way on behalf of the Opposition taken an interest in rural matters, would acknowledge the important effect on superphosphate prices, for example, of the relatively high cost which is in part a function of the rather good conditions which are enjoyed on Australian ships.  Mr Nixon  spoke at some length and pointed to a series of ships which have been brought into the trade under the coalition governments both before the Whitlam Government and since. I do not think that it is necessary to burden the Senate with that detail again. I simply commend it to the attention of honourable senators. 
A number of other matters were raised.  Senator Mulvihill  expressed concern about incidents arising out of the  Oceanic Grandeur  and the difficulties of that ship in 1970. Again, my advice is that those circumstances were immediately dealt with by urgent legislation at that time. There was legislation in 1970 which is relevant to the point that he has made. I must confess to  Senator Mulvihill  that I do not have a working knowledge of that legislation. My advice is that it picks up the point of concern. One will find it in Navigation Bill (No. 1) 1970, which introduced what is now part 7a of the principal Act. 

 Senator Mulvihill also raised the question of pollution. Again, I am advised that separate legislation is envisaged to deal with the total question of pollution of the sea. This has been the subject of recent negotiations with the States and action should flow from that. The final point which I want to mention in reply relates to substandard foreign ships. This is a matter which is under active consideration. I am advised that the Marine and Ports Council of Australia has the matter under consideration. There will be a meeting of officials on this question on the 1 8th of this month. There will be a meeting of relevant Ministers on 30 November. I think that on all of these points - 
I do not have any information on that. Rather than try to give half of the information here, I will seek a full reply for the honourable senator. A matter was also raised at some length by  Senator Rae.  He was concerned about the manning of lighthouses, in particular the lighthouse at Maatsuyker Island on the south coast of Tasmania.  His  concern was that this was being or had been converted into an unmanned lightstation. The Government did take that decision, taking into account the factors mentioned by  Senator Rae  in the Senate late this afternoon. The Government can see the basis of  Senator Rae's  concern which is, of course, about the interests of the local fishing industry and the protection of the local environment. These are regarded by the Commonwealth as predominantly matters for the State Government. The Commonwealth has offered to allow the State Government to take over and place personnel on the territory formerly occupied by the Commonwealth. So far the State Government has declined to do that. 
I know that  Senator Rae  has made specific suggestions about ways in which costs might be met. My advice is that the cost is about $60,000 per annum.  Senator Rae  has suggested various ways that it could be picked up out of different votes and so on. I can only say to the Senate that I will refer that matter back to the Minister for consideration by him and other relevant Ministers. The position taken by the Commonwealth to date- I have no indication that that will be altered- is that the sort of considerations about which  Senator Rae  is properly concerned, as a Tasmanian senator, are considerations which properly fall within the province of the State Government. I think that there will be a great sense of relief on the part of many honourable senators from the Government and the Opposition when this legislation is finally passed. I understand that it will be a matter of considerable relief to the industry, which has been long awaiting these amendments. I commend the Bill to the Senate and thank honourable senators for their remarks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
In Committee 
Navigation Amendment Bill 1979 
The Bill. 
by leave- I move: 
1  ) Page  2,  clause  2,  sub-clause  (3),  lines  16  and  17,  leave out, 'sub-sections  104 (3), (4)  and  (s)  and section  106',  insert 'and sub-sections  104 (3), (4)  and  (3)'. 
In other words, the proposed new section simply provides for a certificate to be issued which enables one to determine what are the provisions of the Uniform Shipping Laws Code. It is a method of proof provided in the Bill. I am advised that the substitute section arises from a decision of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia. The Code, which provides for Australia-wide uniformity in the laws covering survey and manning of commercial vessels, has been adopted by the Marine and Ports Council of Australia, which consists of the Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory Ministers responsible for marine and port affairs. Since proposed new section 427 was drafted and as it now stands in the Bill, the Council has decided that the Code would best be implemented by the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory legislating by reference to it. The most appropriate way to enable satisfactory reference to be effected would be for the Code to be published in the  Commonwealth Gazette.  What we are really doing here is implementing not only the method of determining what the Code is, but also how it is proved to be the Code. The necessary gazettal arrangements having been made, amendment No. 4 changes proposed section 427 so that the Minister may by order published in the  Gazette  declare that the provisions annexed to the order are the provisions of the Code. It also provides for future variations to the Code to be similarly declared and gazetted. Perhaps just as a final consoling point, I direct that the Senate 's attention to the proposed new section 427 which states: 
An order under sub-section (2) is, for all purposes, prima facie evidence of the matters declared in the order. 
In other words, it is not conclusive evidence and if there were some error- if the Commonwealth Minister gazetted the wrong thing- it would be open to a person who suffered from that to bring evidence to dispel that prima facie case. So, once again, we are looking at what is essentially a machinery provision which enables people going to the Courts or elsewhere to establish just what is the Uniform Shipping Laws Code. It is not establishing it in a way which is irrevocable. In other words, somebody can come in if there has been an error- which of course is not very likely, but it could occur- and displace that prima facie evidence. In conclusion I point out that my reading of those amendments is that they do not raise issues of policy or substance. I hope that they do not cause particular concern to the Opposition. 
I appreciate the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh,  which is consistent with the points he has made in this chamber from time to time, and that is a concern with the liberty of the subject. 
-Yes. I acknowledge the honourable senator's consistent interest in this matter. I do not think the problem arises in this case. As I indicated when I was on my feet before, the Code is simply something which will be implemented by legislation. If in fact an offence does arise it will be committed under legislation of either the Commonwealth or the States and not something brought under this Code. In any event, the Code, because of the provisions suggested for section 427, will involve the gazettal of the contents of the Code so that it will be public. Needless to say, all of us are ignorant of the contents of the great bulk of statutory instruments put out by the Commonwealth. 
-Yes. That is a problem with all laws and there is nothing very much that can be done to change that. But in the instant case- I repeat what I have said- the Code has been adopted by the Council which consists of Ministers. But the Council has decided that the Code is to be implemented by the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory legislating by reference to the Code. In other words, there will be either Commonwealth, State or Northern Territory Acts of parliament in relevant cases which will bring the Code into legislative form. In those circumstances I do not think the problem raised by  Senator Cavanagh  would really arise because one would have the normal situation of an Act of parliament. 
One would be in breach of legislation enacted to implement the Code, not of the Code itself. 
The section has been read quite correctly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  There is that clear distinction between the obligations on a foreign ship and on an Australian ship. The position is that the master of a foreign ship leaving an Australian port for another port in Australia must comply, but when he is leaving for a port outside Australia, although he must lodge a sailing plan, he does not have to comply with the other provisions of the division. All that is necessary is for him to indicate on the sailing plan whether or not he intends to comply with the requirements voluntarily. But even then, if he does, there is no provision for enforcement. My advice is that voluntary compliance is to be encouraged. Obviously for the sort of reasons given by the Leader of the Opposition we are not going to gain maximum benefit from the scheme unless there is a compliance by all shipping, and one is likely to be put to the additional expense which is sought to be avoided, whatever sort of ship is involved, if it appears that a search is required. 
Again my advice is that it is not open to the Government to compel a foreign ship to comply. 
That is a matter which is in the hands of the flag state, and it would not be compatible with international practice to introduce that as a compulsory requirement for ships which were simply visiting Australia and departing for a foreign port. I am afraid I cannot give a more definitive reply than that. The Leader of the Opposition might like me to seek a more definitive reply, but that is the advice that I have on the clause at the moment. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) TAA decided on 24 April 1 979 to reduce its trading hours at its Melbourne Cargo Receiving Depot. TAA has advised that the decision to reduce the hours of operation of the Depot was based on the fact that there was little demand for the operation of the facility at the original trading hours. 
TAA's Melbourne Airport Cargo Terminal operates 24 hours per day and provides adequate cover to deal with the needs of industry and commerce when the City Depot is closed. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Acting Commissioner, Commonwealth Police that the Commonwealth Police do not itemise or apportion operational costs to individual inquiries; 
(i) $8,724, including air travel, accommodation and associated costs; and 
travel costs within Australia in respect of the Social Security fraud cases cannot be readily isolated from general travel for the NSW District of the Commonwealth Police. To provide these figures would require the expenditure of considerable effort which I do not think it would be appropriate for me to authorise; and 
court costs are the responsibility of the AttorneyGeneral 's Department and those costs associated with court attendances by Commonwealth Police are not recorded separately from general operational costs. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Air navigation charges currently represent slightly less than 5 per cent of the total cost of the domestic airlines. An increase of 25 per cent in these charges in 1 979-80 should increase the airlines' costs by about I per cent if all other costs remain constant. The effect on air fares for the individual traveller should be a percentage increase of the same magnitude assuming the airlines decide to pass it on to the travelling public. 
The recovery of costs over the three year period refers only to the domestic trunk airline sector. Air charter companies, flying clubs and privately owned aircraft are included in the general aviation sector. 
Handicapped Persons (Question No. 187S) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) No consultants were employed by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal during the year 1 978-79. 
Preservation of Aircraft 'Kookaburra' (Question No. 1906) 
On 6 June 1979  (Hansard  page 2717)  Senator Kilgariff  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, a question without notice concerning an article about the Nomad aircraft which appeared in the  Canberra Times of  that day. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following information: 
The  Canberra Times  article makes reference to a fatal accident which occurred at Avalon in 1976 during an experimental flight in a Nomad with a modified tail-plane. The modification was designed to improve the short take-off capability of the stretched version of the Nomad, the N24. 
Production aircraft in use around the world do not have such a modification. The modification work was not proceeded with as it has been established that the excellent short field characteristics of both the N24 aircraft and the standard N22 aircraft amply meet the requirements of operators. 
Nomad aircraft are in use on regular passenger-carrying services and in other applications in a number of countries including Australia. The Australian Department of Transport, the United States Federal Aviation Administration, and other authorities have granted certification of airworthiness to the Nomad. The Australian and United States certifications were granted after the respective authorities had conducted critical and intense evaluations of the aircraft's flying qualities and design characteristics, with particular attention to flight safety standards laid down by those authorities, standards which are acknowledged throughout the world to be most rigorous. 
Sales and sales prospects of Nomad continue to improve and the number of staisfied customers placing repeat orders leads the Government to be confident that the aircraft is proving attractive to passengers and operators in service. We expect to achieve continuous improvements in the aircraft's operational effectiveness, including safety, by the progressive introduction of design modifications, as is indeed the case with all aircraft throughout their life in service. The Honourable  Senator may  confidently expect to see Nomad used increasingly in scheduled services as well as in general aviation. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In accordance with Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1 979/ 10 a  Senator or  Member shall be provided with car transport at government expense up to a limit of ISO kilometres between his home and the airport or railway station when travelling to or from Canberra on parliamentary business. 
(a) Departmental records show that on two occasions members received car transport in Queensland at government expense in the circumstances outlined. Details are: 6 April 1979 from Dalby to Miles 30 April 1 979 from Warwick to Toowong. 
The only journey in the period in excess of ISO kilometres was from Warwick to Toowong shown in (a) above. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Departmental records show the following information: 
The car provided for  Mr J.  C. Hodges, M.P. left the depot at 0245 hours and collected  Mr Hodges  at 2 Valerie Street, Clontarf, Qld on an 'as directed' basis. The car returned to the depot at 0650 hours having travelled 108 kilometres depot to depot. 
The car provided for  Mr P.  F. Johnson, M.P. left the depot at 0530 hours and collected  Mr Johnson  at 143 Ennogera Terrace, Paddington, Qld and proceeded to Gaythorne on an 'as directed' basis. The car was released at 1240 hours and the driver returned to the depot at 1300 hours having travelled 55 kilometres depot to depot. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The information sought is provided in my reply to you subsequent to your Question Without Notice of 30 August 1979, which reply appears in  Hansard  1 3 September 1 979, page 668. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have seen a transcript of comments made by  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, in an interview broadcast on  AM  on 20 September 1979 but these comments did not explain the under-spending on particular programs for which the Commonwealth had provided grants to Queensland Government Departments in the last four years. The Government is not considering the termination of State Grants to Queensland, which provide for some important and useful services for Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. 
I have some information from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications on the matter raised by  Senator Ryan.  Criticisms of the ethnic television programs have been aired previously in this chamber and are known to honourable senators. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has already acknowledged publicly that these criticisms have been made and because of that the Government is now better placed to consider further developments in this area. I think that even  Senator Ryan  would acknowledge that ethnic television is a new development in Australia and that there are no existing Australian precedents by which to proceed. Having had these trials and the opportunity to have criticism and views expressed about ethnic television, the Government now has to assess carefully where ethnic television is going. Notwithstanding those criticisms, the Government has decided to proceed in the way that was announced this morning. It will be taking the various criticisms into account in determining the long-term future of the program. 
I was in two minds about whether to welcome  Senator McLaren  back and I have decided not to.  Senator McLaren,  in one sense at least, is setting an excellent precedent for this chamber and, in another respect, he is setting a very poor precedent. I leave it to honourable senators to draw their own conclusions as to where he is setting a poor precedent. But the good precedent that I commend to other honourable senators is to ask a question and to answer it in the same breath. Since the question appears to have been answered in the Press release which was incorporated in  Hansard,  I have nothing to add. However, I will carefully peruse the question when it is available to me in the  Hansard  pinks and if there is any section that remains unanswered I will certainly give the honourable senator a further reply. 
I shall do precisely as I indicated before I sat down and I will let the honourable senator have a reply. 
I am sure that not only Queenslanders but all Australians will be interested in the matter raised by the honourable senator. The demand for the flag is gratifying. I agree with the honourable senator. I will refer his suggestion to the Department of Administrative Services. I am sure that in accordance with its normal procedures it will take advantage of the information that he has given. 
Honourable senators would be aware that for a considerable period negotiations have been going on between the Magellan Petroleum Co. and the Central Land Council. To say that may be stretching the point a little because in some periods there have not really been any negotiations at all. In fact, both the Northern Territory Minister concerned,  Mr Tuxworth,  and I have actively encouraged the parties to negotiate. That encouragement certainly has extended to the company, which has tended simply to state its position as being one in which it should not have to enter into the sort of agreement which is being requested. 
As to who is to blame for the delay, it certainly is true that some time ago the Central Land Council indicated to me that it thought that agreement would not be reached. It sought the appointment of an arbitrator, who can be provided under the Act. Subsequent to that request, the company made it clear that it was not anxious to have an arbitrator appointed at this stage but wished to continue negotiations. Recently the company indicated that it wished to make a further offer to the Central Land Council, acting for the traditional owners. The present position, I understand, is that a further meeting is to be held between the company and the Central Land Council. 1 believe that that meeting is to be held on 22 October in Alice Springs. It is my understanding that at that meeting a further offer will be made by the company. 
I would like to say, though, as this is a matter of some public interest, that the mining industry does tend to assert that it is important that time limits should be placed on negotiations and on when an arbitrator is to be appointed, so that there will not be undue delay with respect to development projects. It is interesting that in this particular case the party which wishes to keep the negotiations going rather than have an arbitrator appointed is, in fact, the mining company. 
I have some information relating to the Hobart Airport which, unlike other capital city airports, is not manned continuously, as was indicated by the honourable senator in his question. In fact, the particular control tower is manned on a 24-hour basis for eight days each fortnight and for 2 1 hours for the remaining six days, with a requirement that it will always be manned whenever a regular public transport aircraft movement occurs. So there is a relatively restricted period in each fortnight in which the control tower is not manned. The reason for the difference between Hobart Airport and the other capital city airports is, of course, the simple practical one: Manning is in accordance with traffic requirements which are lower in Hobart than in any other capital city. This is simply because of population. The Bureau of Meteorology's weather observer is on duty at Hobart Airport for 24 hours a day and makes observations that are then fed into the airways operations system of the Department of Transport which operates on a continuous basis and ensures that pilots in command are fully informed of essential operational information. So there is no gap with respect to the provision of that sort of essential information. 
I do not believe that it is possible to give a succinct answer to the question asked by the honourable senator as to whether the closing down of railways is in the best interests of Australia's future transport needs. I would have thought that that matter would have to be examined on a case by case basis, according to the traffic available and the economics of alternative transport. Obviously, the economics of alternative transport will vary as the price of different forms of energy varies. No doubt there is something important in the point that I think the honourable senator is trying to make, namely, that as petroleum fuels become more scarce and more expensive other energy sources will become more economic to use. I will examine the question further and, if I think I can add anything useful to what I have said, I will do so. 
With respect to the particular rail link that has been referred to by the honourable senator, I assume that it is one of those in South Australia which are subject to the agreement between the Commonwealth and the State under which rail closures are subject to joint consultation. One would hope that, with the election of the new and vital government in South Australia, some of the difficulties of the past will be resolved more easily than they have been. 
The honourable senator refers to a matter which has received some attention in the Senate. The recent more encouraging figures from the Northern Territory indicate that the 1977 jump in infant mortality appears to have been an aberration. He is quite correct in what he says in the question, namely, that detailed information is not available from any State, although some information is available from some parts of States. I think that the honourable senator's own State of Queensland has some information, but not all the information, relating to infant mortality among Aboriginals. The suggestion the honourable senator makes is a good one. I will certainly examine it. I am not sure in my own mind whether a request has not already been made to that effect. I certainly will look into the matter carefully and let the honourable senator know the result of my inquiries. 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)- For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual report of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for 1978-79. 
-I will seek a reply to that question from the Minister for Transport. 
I can only join in the chorus of incredulous Ohs. I will ask the Minister for Administrative Services what is going on. 
in reply- There is no desire on the part of the Government to restrict debate. We have the normal problem of dealing with business. I endeavoured in the statement to make a more detailed assessment of the factors involved in the grant. I will welcome debate on it. There is other business which has to be dealt with by the Senate and the Government needs to pursue that business. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The total number of women employed in the Australian Broadcasting Commission as at 31 August 1979 was 1,884. 
One of these is paid at a rate equivalent to Level 2 of the second division of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Uranium Exploration Training in the Philippines (Question No. 1828) 
I have read the speech to which the honourable senator refers. Unfortunately I was not able to hear it delivered. The matter which has been brought before the Senate in this question from the honourable senator is but one of a series of very useful suggestions contained in the speech. Honourable senators will be aware that there is a national employment strategy for Aboriginals which includes the use of the organs of the Commonwealth Government to provide employment opportunities for Aboriginals. That strategy has been effective in bringing quite a large number of Aboriginal people into the work force, but at the same time there has been a most distressing lack of progress in terms of overall employment among Aboriginals. For that reason I think the suggestion made by  Mr Everingham  in that speech certainly ought to be considered by the Government. I will refer it to my colleague, the Minister for Defence, to see whether an additional effort can be made in the areas under his jurisdiction. 
The appointment of a director for the Broadcasting Information Office is under consideration by the Government at the moment. A short list of applicants has been prepared and interviews are being conducted. Once the position of director has been filled, the Office will be established as soon as possible. Any decision on specific research activities and the priorities of the Broadcasting Information Office will not be made until after the unit has been established. I think that the honourable senator who asked the question and all honourable senators will be aware that a good deal has been done already in the field of the relationship between children and television.  Senator Davidson  chaired an inquiry into the effect of television on children by the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. That inquiry did a great deal of valuable work in the field and made a number of important recommendations. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications is finalising his recommendations on what should be the Government's response to the report and will make a statement on that in the near future. A great deal of work has been done by other agencies in company with the work done by the Government. That has had an important influence on the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and its Children's Programs Committee and on the new arrangements affecting television programs for children which were announced recently. 
The honourable senator has raised an interesting and important question. There are precautions which are required of and observed by aircraft carrying radioactive materials. I will get from  Mr Nixon  a detailed response to the questions raised by the honourable senator and will let him have that as soon as possible. 

 -Mr President-- 

I am very grateful to  Senator McLaren  for his attempt to assist, but I would be even more grateful if he would keep quiet. I am somewhat surprised to hear about the report which is referred to by the honourable senator in his question. I have not had my attention drawn to the publication the  West Coast Sentinel  and, in particular, I have no knowledge of its report on the subject. The matter has been aired in this chamber on a number of occasions. I am most disturbed that there should be an inaccurate report. I will take up all the points which have been raised by the honourable senator and seek to have the correct information published in that journal. 
I do recall the earlier questions from  Senator O  'Byrne and  Senator Bishop  on this subject but I have not seen the report to which the honourable senator refers. I do recall that in the earlier answers which I gave I indicated not only that action was being taken within Australia to ensure that everything was satisfactory but also that close communication was being maintained with the relevant United States authorities. I have little doubt that whatever is happening in the United States in this case is being considered by the Australian authorities, but I will get a proper and definitive reply from the honourable senator as soon as possible. 
I did see a report- I think it was in the  Canberra Times  this morning- in the sorts of terms outlined by  Senator Evans.  Beyond confessing a little personal surprise, I cannot really answer his question because as far as I know the Government has not determined an attitude on the matter. Indeed it would be unlikely that it would have had the opportunity to do so. As I understand it, the report relates to matters which were put before the court only in the last day. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport for an authoritative reply on behalf of the Government. 
Earlier today in Question Time,  Senator Sibraa  raised the matter of the non-reappointment of  Mr Bayutti  to the Board of Qantas Airways Ltd. I am now advised by the 
Minister for Transport that his appreciation and that of the Government has been conveyed to  Mr Bayutti  for the substantial contribution he has made to the work of the Qantas Board over the last five years. In addition to his special interest in the Italian community, he has made a broad contribution to the work of Qantas and has shown a real interest in the affairs of the company. Appointments to the Qantas Board are made for a specified period, and in  Mr Bayutti  's case it was five years. When considering appointments or reappointments, the Government has to take into account the need to ensure continutiy, on the one hand and the need to provide opportunities for other people with differing qualifications and experience to make a contribution to the activities of Qantas. In these circumstances the Senate will appreciate that it does not necessarily follow that directors automatically will be reappointed to the Board. I can assure the Senate that the decision not to reappoint  Mr Bayutti  is not a reflection on him or his abilities. 
Yesterday  Senator Bonner  asked me a question about infant mortality statistics and the lack of statistics in some States. I indicated an attitude at that time but I have since had confirmation that the Department of Health has taken action at both ministerial and departmental level to obtain the agreement of registrars of births and deaths in all States, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory for the separate identification of Aboriginal Australians in birth and death registrations. This is, of course, to assist in remedial measures. I mention that because there is some controversy in some areas about the need to identify Aboriginality in certain circumstances, and it raises difficult questions about the rights of individuals and whether the information has been gained for a purpose which is beneficial or oppressive. I mention that because it is the sort of difficult decision that governments and agencies sometimes have to make. 
Earlier in Question Time,  Senator Bishop  again raised the question of the safety of DC9 aircraft and referred to a newspaper article of today which indicated that there were new safety checks for DC9s. I have now received advice, and this confirms the comment I made earlier, that the Department of Transport has been keeping close contact with the United States Federal Aviation Administration and with the manufacturer following the Air 
Canada DC9 occurrence on 17 September. No inspection directive has yet been issued by the United States Federal Aviation Administration for the version of the DC9 with ventral stairs, which is the only type in use in Australia. Nevertheless, the Department has initiated a special inspection program for the DC9 aircraft operated by Ansett Airlines of Australia and TransAustralia Airlines and inspections are being carried out to the agreed program. The Department will review the inspection program when the United States Federal Aviation Administration issues an inspection directive. 
by leave- I have received the report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner on the land claim known as the Uluru (Ayers Rock) National Park and Lake Amadeus/Luritja land claim. I propose to table the report when it is printed, but I shall make known the Commissioner's recommendation now, together with my decision, in order to avoid unnecessary delay. This land claim was the fourth to be heard by the Commissioner under the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. The Act provides, amongst other things, a mechanism whereby Aboriginals may lodge claims to unalienated or vacant Crown land on the basis of traditional ownership of that land, and for the claims to be heard by the Commissioner who then reports to me and to my colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs. 
The present claim comprised the Uluru (Ayers Rock-Mount Olga) National Park, and a larger area to the north and south adjoining land owned by the Petermann Aboriginal Land Trust. It was lodged by the Central Land Council. When the hearing began, the claim was amended by the withdrawal of the most northern section of the claim area. During the hearing, which began in April and lasted two months, the Commissioner ruled that the National Park was alienated land and therefore not able to be claimed under the Act. The Commissioner has found that the amended area of claim is unalienated Crown land and that there are Aboriginals who are the traditional owners of that land. He has recommended that the land be granted to a land trust for the benefit of Aboriginals entitled by Aboriginal tradition to the use or occupation of the land. 
In making his recommendations, the Land Commissioner is required by the Act to comment upon such matters as the number of Aboriginals who would be advantaged by the land grant, the nature and extent of that advantage, whether detriment might result to any person or community as a result of the grant and the effect which the grant would have on existing or proposed patterns of land usage. The Commissioner has indicated that several hundred Aboriginals would benefit if the land were to be granted to an Aboriginal land trust, in that the grant may give impetus to the establishment of communities in the claim area and would be of considerable moral significance to the claimants and to others living in reasonable proximity. 
As to any detriment that might result to any person or community as a result of any grant made, the Commissioner has indicated that there would be no detriment likely to be suffered by any persons or communities as a result of any grants being made. He has also commented that there was no evidence of any likely harmful effect upon existing or proposed patterns of land usage in the region. As to roads, there is no doubt that the main road through Curtin Springs station to Uluru (Ayers Rock) is a road over which the public has a right of way and so this road will be excluded from any land that will be granted. A second road was also mentioned during the hearing- a road which does not exist at present but which is planned to run from the western boundary of Curtin Springs station to the tourist town site of Yulara. Although there is no legal requirement for the route of this proposed road to be excluded from any land grant, the claimants, through the Central Land Council, withdrew their claim to this particular strip of land. As a consequence, this road would not be a part of any grant of land made. 
During the course of the hearings the Northern Territory Government had an opportunity to put its views before the Commissioner. In determining whether I should accept the recommendations of the Land Commissioner, I have given serious consideration to the views expressed by the Northern Territory Government during the course of the hearings and I have also sought that Government's views as to the recommendations made by the Land Commissioner. The Northern Territory Government has indicated to me that it does not wish to express a view but has no objection to my announcing the approval of the Uluru land claim in accordance with the recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. 
Therefore, having given due regard to the recommendations made by the Commissioner and his comments relating to those recommendations, and having had regard to the interests of other groups in the Northern Territory, I have accepted the Commissioner's recommendations that the land be granted. I shall establish a land trust and will recommend to the GovernorGeneral that a grant of an estate in fee simple in the land be made to the trust. The land to be granted, which amounts to some 5,360 square kilometres, does not of course include the site of the new town of Yulara just outside the northern boundary of the National Park, which will be developed as a tourist village. Nor does it include two roads over which the public has a right of way, and to which I have referred. Printed copies of the Commissioner's report will not be available for some weeks but a limited number of photocopies are available from the Records Office and the Parliamentary Library. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
by leave- At present over 20 Bills are before one or other of the Houses which the Government proposes for passage through the Senate before the Parliament rises for the end of the year adjournment. In addition a further four Bills are being introduced into the other place today and a number of measures are yet to be settled. I am informing honourable senators so that we may be able to arrange the program to facilitate adequate consideration of the legislation. It will be apparent that we now face a full program and will need to make consistent progress day by day. For instance, we can look to debating some 20 Bills in the remaining weeks of this month. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill proposes amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are designed to remedy deficiences in the operation of the Act which have become evident in recent months. The amendments will require a Commissioner to consult with his  Deputy President  before making or varying an award relating to wages and conditions; prohibit the Commission from ordering, recommending or sanctioning in any way, an employer paying wages to an employee for time when the employee was engaged in industrial action; provide for the expeditious hearing of stand-down applications, either before a single member of the Commission or a Full Bench; provide that the question of whether an industrial dispute exists may be the subject of a reference to a Full Bench; enable an industrial dispute or part of an industrial dispute to be referred to a Full Bench at the conciliation stage; reinforce the powers of the  President  of the Commission by enabling him to withdraw a matter from another member of the Commission and either deal with it himself or refer the matter to a Full Bench; and provide increased protection for the community by creating an alternative path to the deregistration of organisations and thereby remove delays in the deregistration process in cases where the safety, health or welfare of the community are put at risk by industrial action. 
Consultation with NLCC 
Before dealing more fully with the substance of the proposed amendments, I want to refer to the process of consultation in the National Labour Consultative Council. The Government established the National Labour Consultative Council, by statute, in 1977 as a continuing, tripartite consultative body. As a general practice, proposals involving industrial relations and manpower issues, including possible legislation, are submitted to the Council for discussion and expression of views for Government's consideration. 
The Government's initial proposals about the particular issues dealt with in the Bill before the House were discussed by the NLCC at its 12th Meeting on 6 August this year. Representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations did not attend that meeting. Both organisations had formally advised me that their executives had jointly resolved on 16 July not to participate in NLCC discussions pending resolution of certain matters. I wrote to both organisations on 26 July, stressing the importance the Government placed on the role of the Council. 1 received no response to these letters prior to the 6 August Meeting of NLCC. I might add that I subsequently received replies in late August and early September advising that both organisations were prepared to resume their participation in NLCC discussions subject to certain conditions. I replied to their letters on 7 September and I hope to see both organisations resume their participation in Council. The Council regretted the absence of union representatives. Nevertheless, the Council felt obliged to carry out its statutory functions. As on previous occasions, the Government in finalising its proposed legislation, has given careful consideration to the points raised in the Council's discussions. 
Requirement of Consultation by Commissioners 
The Bill proposes that a Commissioner be required to consult with his Deputy President before making or varying an award with respect to wages and conditions. There is a complex range of awards and registered agreements operating in industries coming within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This very fact demands consistency of principle in decision-making within the Commission itself. Regrettably there have been some occasions when such consistency has been lacking. The consequences for the community have been serious, both industrially and economically. The proposed consultative process is designed to provide greater co-ordination and consistency in decision-making within the Commission. 
Powers of the Commission in Relation to Payments to Workers for Time Lost through Industrial Action 
I turn next to the proposal to limit the powers of the Commission in relation to payments to workers for time lost through industrial action. At the present time the Commission may provide for payment to employees in respect of time not worked because they were engaged in industrial action. This is undesirable by any standards. Not only does it encourage irresponsible industrial action, it also forces the employer to pay for the very disruption that puts his business at risk and damages the economic and social life of the community. It is an outlandish concept and indeed makes a mockery of any supposed 'right to strike'. This legislation now makes it quite clear that the Commission will not be able to award, or in any way sanction, payment for time lost through industrial action. Accordingly the Bill proposes an amendment to the Act to provide that the Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other action, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
Stand-down Applications 
The Bill proposes amendments to require the Commission to deal expeditiously with standdown applications. A stand-down clause is one that authorises an employer not to pay some or all of his employees in specified circumstances, for example, where they cannot be usefully employed because of a breakdown of machinery or industrial action by other employees. Applications for stand-down clauses are usually dealt with by a Commissioner or  Deputy President. 
There are three main reasons why the Government is proposing these amendments to speed up the process for consideration of stand-down clauses in awards, First, the harmful effects of industrial action on any enterprise are often serious, and they can be disastrous in the case of small employers. There is little they can do to protect themselves. Employers should not be required to 'carry' employees for whom there is no work because of the industrial action of other employees. Secondly, stand-down clauses protect employees from being sacked- they enable the employer to avoid the need to dismiss employees for whom no work is available as a result of industrial action by others. Thirdly, provision for prompt access by employers to the Commission in applications for stand-down clauses should encourage unionists generally to exert a moderating influence on particular union members and officers who are quick to call strikes rather than use the processes of conciliation and arbitration. 
A decision to take industrial action all too often gravely affects innocent people not directly involved. Any person considering industrial action should be sensitive to the possible consequences of that action for his fellow workers and for the well being of the community. 
References to a Full Bench  1 now turn to the proposed amendments which remedy deficiencies in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act inhibiting the referral of matters to a Full Bench of the Commission. Those deficiencies were highlighted during proceedings in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission concerning a claim by the Australian Telecommunication Employees Association for a 20 per cent increase in all wage levels of ATEA members employed by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Telecommunications Commission resisted the claim on the grounds that it conflicted with the principles governing wage indexation. ATEA members then imposed bans and limitations which caused the breakdown of the Australian Telecommunications system with very serious social and economic consequences. 
Because of the gravity of the situation, it was essential, in the public interest, that the matter be referred to a Full Bench. However, there were difficulties in getting such a reference. It is clearly unacceptable that the processes of the Commission for the proper settlement of industrial disputes should be frustrated because of procedural deficiencies. It is proposed to remedy those deficiencies by the following amendments to the Act: First, an amendment to provide that the question whether or not an industrial dispute exists may be the subject of a reference to a Full Bench of the Commission; second, an amendment to enable an industrial dispute or part of an industrial dispute to be referred to a Full Bench at the conciliation stage; and third, an amendment to empower the  President  of the Commission to withdraw a matter from a member of the Commission and deal with it himself by conciliation and/or arbitration or refer it to a Full Bench. 
Cancellation of Registration 
For some time now the Government has recognised that in certain situations there is a need to provide an alternative to the form of deregistration processes presently available under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The need arises from the actions of a few pursuing selfish interests with reckless disregard for the community. Many unions, or sections of them, are strategically placed to interfere with the provision of goods and services to the community. Indeed, they have used the vulnerability of the community to their disruptive tactics as a powerful industrial weapon, and even, on occasions, for blatantly political purposes. The Government does not believe that any member of our community, whether a direct participant in industrial relations or not, should have to put up with tactics which threaten their health, safety or welfare. 
We believe that it is proper for all organisations to effectively represent the legitimate interests of their members. But these organisations also have a responsibility to the community. It is an unfortunate fact that some of these organisations, or sections of them, have in the past, ignored that responsibility and rejected the proper process for settling their disputes. I need only remind honourable senators of the disruption caused by members of the Transport Workers Union in support of claims for wage increases under a number of awards. That disruption had a dramatic effect, for example, on the supply of milk and other vital foodstuffs. 
This Government is concerned about the rights of individuals. We have already acted to protect the rights of individuals in relation to industrial organisations. We will not stand by and watch while individual Australians are denied their right to obtain goods and services affecting their safety, health or welfare. Registration under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act confers very significant rights and privileges upon an organisation. It also carries with it obligations. The Government believes that the present deregistration provisions are not adequate to deal with the special circumstances where organisations, or sections of them, endanger the safety, health or welfare of Australian families. In this context, the existing grounds for deregistration do not sufficiently protect individuals or the public interest. 
Accordingly, this Bill proposes that another process of deregistration be provided which will be additional to the existing provisions. I will briefly deal with the main features of the proposed new provision. The Minister may apply to a Full Bench of the Commission for a declaration that industrial action by an organisation or a group of its members has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or a part of the. community. At this point I ask honourable senators to note it is not any adverse effect due to industrial action that will make an organisation liable to deregistration by these processes; the adverse effect must be substantial. Moreover, the right to initiate proceedings is restricted to the Minister, and the decision as to whether the threshold test has been satisfied lies with a Full Bench of the Commission. 
Where the Full Bench makes a declaration the Governor-General may within six months direct the Registrar to cancel the organisation's registration or make orders suspending the rights, privileges or capacities of the organisation or giving directions as to the exercise of any of its rights, privileges or capacities or for restricting the use of its funds or property to ensure observance of the order. Cancellation of registration need not follow a declaration. If the organisation undertakes not to pursue the industrial action that might be the end of the matter. If it were to go back on its undertaking, deregistration could be directed at any time up to six months after the declaration by the Full Bench. After that time, of course, the Minister would need to obtain another declaration by a Full Bench. 
The orders that the Governor-General may make as an alternative to cancellation of registration are the same as those that may be made as an alternative to deregistration under the existing provision for cancellation of registration. Where such an order has been made it will remain open to the Governor-General, within the next six months, to direct that the organisation's registration be cancelled. I remind honourable senators that the Acts Interpretation Act provides that a reference to the Governor-General in an Act shall, unless the contrary intention appears, be read as referring to the GovernorGeneral acting with the advice of the Executive Council, that is, with the advice of Ministers. No contrary intention is expressed in these amendments. Consequently, in exercising powers under the section, the Governor-General will act with the advice of the Executive Council. Finally, where the Governor-General has directed that an organisation's registration be cancelled, the organisation cannot be re-registered without the consent of the Governor-General. He may make his consent conditional upon the organisation complying with conditions he prescribes. 
These new provisions are designed specifically to protect the job security, safety, health or welfare of Australian men and women and their families. They would be used only where these rights, fundamental to any democracy, are threatened. If any group acts in a way which puts these rights at risk, then they cannot expect the community to continue granting them the privileges to which they would otherwise be entitled. When the basis of life is under attack, the public is entitled to expect its Government to protect their interests. Irresponsible behaviour endangering the very foundation of our society is, fortunately, uncommon. But it does occur and cannot be dealt with by the usual means. This proposed legislation recognises that fact, and will provide the Government with the necessary procedures to protect its citizens. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Industry and Commerce 1978-79. 
-I do not have the information that has been requested by the honourable senator but will seek it for him and give him an early reply. 
I am indebted to the honourable senator for drawing that to my attention. I will seek an answer to the question and also find out what my own departmental head is up to. 
I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport for reply. 
It is good to hear what an active interest the Opposition has in the Australian flag, but until the question was asked I was not aware that that particular bit of information had been omitted from the booklet. I agree with the honourable senator that the Union Jack does have a colourful history and, indeed, is included on the flags of a number of other states and nations. For example, I think that the state of Hawaii includes the Union Jack on its flag as part of the history of that country which was also contacted in the early days by Captain Cook. I will forward  Senator Walters'  question to the Minister for Administrative Services. In light of the additional interest being shown in the flag at the moment, which was also referred to in the Senate chamber recently, I think her suggestion might well be taken up by the Government. 
I have some information on the subject raised by the honourable senator, but I am unable to answer the final part of his question relating to the matter of audit. I will have to seek further information for him on that point. I am advised that the Australian National Line does not operate a seafarers retirement fund. Perhaps that is why I have no information in relation to audit. Ratings engaged on ANL ships are entitled to membership of the Seafarers Retirement Fund established by a trust deed dated 9 February 1973 and operated on behalf of the maritime industry by Australian Maritime Industries Ltd of 500 Collins Street, Melbourne. The trustees of the fund are representatives of shipowners and unions and include  Mr Patrick  Geraghty of the Seamen's Union of Australia,  Mr Les  Mullens of the Federated Marine Stewards and Pastry men's Association of Australasia and  Mr Bill  Heath of the Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers Association of Australasia. The trust deed does not contain any provisions concerning members' rights of access to information. However, each year a statement is forwarded by the fund to each contributor setting out details of the amount contributed by him up to 30 June of that year and the benefits arising as a result of those contributions. The statement is accompanied by a report from the trustees setting out the balance of the fund as at 30 June and the manner in which the fund is invested. I understand that statements for the year ended 30 June 1979 are today being sent out to contributors. As to the audit of those statements and of the fund, I will seek information for the honourable senator and give it to him as soon as possible. 
I think it was sweet reason rather than threats that changed the mind of the Australian Postal Commission. I am pleased to say that a matter in which  Senator Lewis  and I have some personal interestnamely, the commemoration of Apex- is to be acknowledged on the fiftieth anniversary of that organisation, Australia Post having reviewed its earlier decision. I think it is true to say that there has been a wide range of representations on this subject, both by way of questions in this place and personally to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Postal Commission. I acknowledge the consideration given by the Postal Commission to those representations. I understand that the Postal Commission is reviewing its stamp issue policy. It may be that honourable senators will have an interest in making a submission to the Postal Commission as to the basis on which commemorative stamps should be issued. 
Although I have read reports of breakings into pharmacies, usually by people searching for drugs, I was not aware that this was a matter of widespread concern. I am indebted to the honourable senator for bringing it to my attention. I would certainly agree that it is in the best interests of everybody that pharmacies should be secure. I will refer the suggestions that the honourable senator has made about the alarm system and the possible concessions to  Mr Staley  for consideration. 
Last Thursday  Senator McLaren  asked me whether Bills dealing with primary industry would be introduced at the end of the sittings or earlier. I undertook to seek information for the honourable senator. I have made some inquiries and I am informed that any primary industry legislation intended for passage in these sittings which has not been introduced already can be expected in the very near future. Of course, arrangements for debating time will depend on the progress of necessary legislation, including the Budget Bills. 
I thank all honourable senators who spoke for their support of this Bill, albeit that in each case their support was qualified in some way. Those qualifications were raised with great seriousness by honourable senators, and I will certainly draw them all to the attention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  Out of respect for the views that have been put forward, I wish to make some brief comments on the matters raised. The three Government senators who spoke shared a concern about the Commonwealth role in the allocation of finance for roads. That concern is being raised at a particularly appropriate time, notwithstanding that, as was made clear in the earlier speeches, the legislation simply completes a program over three years, the pattern of which was established in 1977. It is appropriate that the matter should be raised now because the arrangements are up for discussion between the Commonwealth and the States, and the views of honourable senators can be taken into account in those discussions. 
The June 1979 Premiers Conference decided that road funding from the termination of the program at the end of this financial year would be a matter for discussion between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Premiers within the Premiers Conference. The operation of the arrangements is being examined by the 
Australian Transport Advisory Council, and I understand that there is to be a special meeting of the Council in November. The roads arrangements are also the subject of study by the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations. So these valuable instruments of federalism of the sort that are solidly supported by the Government and by this side of the Senate are involved in examining the whole issue. No doubt the matters that have been raised by  Senator Hamer  and those who spoke in support of him will be before those, meetings. It should be noted that while the States from time to time have argued within the Australian Transport Advisory Council for less detailed Commonwealth involvement in roads arrangements, this issue was not raised by any State Premier during discussions at the June 1979 Premiers Conference. To some extent we are in the hands of the State Premiers in that the interests of the States are represented by them at these meetings and by the State Transport Ministers at the ATAC meetings. 
The attitude the Commonwealth has adopted consistently over a period is that it needs to retain some say over the direction of its funds and to be aware of the use to which its funds are being put by the States. The political dilemma that exists in this area was underlined by the comments of  Senator Rocher,  who spoke about an area of roads which is very familiar to me and about problems which are very familiar to me and to  Senator Thomas,  who is now in the chamber and who is a regular visitor to the Pilbara, as is  Senator Rocher.  I venture to say that  Senator Mcintosh  also visits that area and would be aware that there is a considerable amount of feeling in the Pilbara in support of the views put by  Senator Rocher,  namely, that the Pilbara raises a great deal of export income and is entitled to better roads than it has so that people can enjoy the amenities that most Australians enjoy, in particular, access to the coast over roads that do not destroy one's motor vehicle. All that is common ground to a large number of honourable senators in this chamber, and the Government acknowledges it as being a serious matter. 
One of the problems we have at the moment is that Western Australia's 1979-80 rural arterial program includes only one small project in the Pilbara. Last year's program had two projects in the region amounting to an estimated $3. 3m, neither of them yet completed, and the program currently before the Federal Minister for approval involves virtually no Commonwealth funds for Pilbara roads. Because of the matters raised by  Senator Rocher-  not because he raised them but because they are there and are understood by the Government and by many of usthere is a concern about that program not providing for the Pilbara. For that reason the Minister has taken the view that the State program needs to be reconsidered. One has there the practical question running up against the point of principle that the honourable senator put forward with great seriousness and which I know he believes very deeply. 
I simply draw attention to that problem as being an example of the difficulty the Commonwealth faces if it is called upon to make judgments about particular cases.  Senator Georges  referred to the Bruce Highway as causing turn great concern because it was a national highway. If we are to consider these things then we have to have some say over the way in which money is being spent. I simply draw that by way of example to the attention of honourable senators who have spoken. I think it underlines the difficulty the Commonwealth faces in stepping back completely from any interest in where its funds are going. I do not wish to over-simplify the view put by  Senator Hamer  and others. I know that  Senator Hamer  reserved to the Commonwealth a specific obligation as well as a right and a duty with respect to national roads, and he put the suggestion that there should be less involvement further down the line, or indeed no involvement at certain levels. But the matter is not without its political difficulty, and at this stage all I can do is draw the Minister's attention to the points raised by the three honourable senators on the Government side who spoke so that the matters can be considered at the appropriate time. 
With respect to some of the comments made by  Senator Georges,  I must say that this has been a quite extraordinary debate in the cross-currents of support around the chamber. If I had been asked to predict that one day I would sit here and listen to  Senator Georges  quoting  Mr Hinze  at great length and with approval, I would have been prepared to lay a fair sum that that would never happen. 
However, bearing in mind that they come from the same State and bearing in mind that the senior Opposition member present reminds me that they are the same shape, perhaps it is not so surprising that the words of  Mr Hinze  should meet with such unqualified approval from  Senator Georges.  I noted that in the course of his speech he kept saying: 'I am not the person saying these things'. 
That left me a little mystified because I was not quite sure who was standing in the place of  Senator Georges.  In any event, I do not wish to introduce any levity in this debate, bearing in mind  Senator George's  reminder to me earlier of the fate of other people in similar circumstances. I will move on from that point. I am very grateful to  Senator Missen  for the fact that he devoted some attention to  Senator Georges'  strong assertion that because money was raised on roads it should be spent on roads.  Senator Missen  made the point that we might have some difficulty, and he misunderstood my nodding at the time. I was agreeing with his point that he might have some difficulty if we insisted that revenue raised from tobacco and alcohol should be spent on smokers and drinkers. No government, including the Government supported three years ago by  Senator Georges,  has ever adopted the principle that was also adverted to by the Opposition spokesman in this area,  Senator Gietzelt.  No government has ever accepted the principle of locking expenditure into the area in which the revenue is raised. 
There is no question of its being locked out. The two matters are determined separately. There simply is not a direct relationship. 
The only other comment I wish to reply to is that made by  Senator Gietzelt  about the Commonwealth 's failure to increase Commonwealth funding at a level that he thought was appropriate. Statistics in the 1 979 roads report of the Bureau of Transport Economics show a fall in the Commonwealth's funding effort in 1979 and that in real terms there has been a fall in Commonwealth funding between 1974-75 and 1978-79 of about six per cent. On the other hand, during the same period State expenditure has increased by 39 per cent and local government expenditure has increased by 7.3 per cent. In money terms, between 1974-75 and 1978-79 the average annual growth was 7.4 per cent for the Commonwealth, 1 8.3 per cent for the States and 10.9 per cent for local government. 
In this area, as in other areas, the position of the Government is that its allocation of funds is one which is made in the light of the Government's overall approach to the economic management of Australia. We came into government and were re-elected to government on the basis that we believed that restraint in expenditure was necessary. It is therefore obvious that in debates such as this restraint can be pointed to. It would be a little odd if one could not do so. I make no apology for that. The Commonwealth has the overall responsibility for national economic management and it accepts that that involves taking decisions which are not as easy as the decisions made in those halcyon days when government expenditure was increasing by very large lumps each year. 
The point to be noted, however, is that the position of State and local government in recent years has been eased by Commonwealth general revenue assistance. The increase to the States in 1 976-77 was 1 9.6 per cent. In 1 977-78 it was 1 6.6 per cent; in 1978-79 it was 10.5 per cent; and in 1 979-80 it will be 1 3.4 per cent. The increases for local government in the same period- I refer to the same years in series- are 17.7 per cent, 17.8 per cent, 10.7 per cent and 22 per cent. In fact both of those areas of government have had the opportunity to increase their expenditure in this important area. We inevitably spend a lot of time debating Bills on which there is agreement. I would like to leave some time for those Bills on which there is disagreement between the Government and the Opposition. I commend the Bill to the Senate and again thank honourable senators for their thoughtful and constructive speeches on the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) During the dry docking for annual survey a crack was found in the port tailshaft This crack would eventually have caused the shaft to fracture. Replacement of the tailshaft was necessary and added four days to the docking time of the vessel. 
The crack was initially discovered after normal business hours on Friday 20 July. The seriousness was unable to be determined until late on Saturday 2 1 July when it became apparent that the return voyage commencing Wednesday 25 July would have to be cancelled. On Monday 23 July as work progressed the further extent of delay was determined. It became evident that the voyage commencing on Friday 27 July would also have to be cancelled. 
Prior to the docking, and until the above times, ANL expected the repairs to be completed on schedule. 
Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau offices in all mainland capitals and Hobart were advised by telex at 9.30 a.m. on Monday 23 July, that the round voyage commencing on Wednesday 25 July was cancelled. Later on 23 July, following further assessment, the offices of the Bureau were advised that the round voyage commencing on 27 July was cancelled and that the ship would resume service on Monday 30 July 1979. 
to (7) In addition to advising the Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau offices early on Monday 23 July, ANL contacted those persons making direct bookings with it. The majority of passengers would have been advised by the Bureau or ANL. To cover those persons who could not be contacted personally, public notices were placed in all metropolitan daily newspapers of southern and eastern Australia on the morning of Tuesday 24 July. 
Passenger bookings for each sailing at the time of cancellation of voyages were: ex Melbourne 25 July-209 ex Devonport 26 July- 275 ex Melbourne 27 July-207 ex Devonport 29 July- 2 10. 
The category of passenger is not readily available for these cancelled voyages because the ANL transferor booked passengers to air transport or other sailings automatically deletes this data from the computer. 
ANL advertises a schedule of sailings for the  Empress of Australia  which is subject to change without notice. This condition is also included in clause 1 of the terms and conditions of carriage printed on the passenger ticket. In accordance with normal commercial practice it adheres to this schedule except on those occasions when operational or industrial problems arise. In this instance ANL made every endeavour to assist affected passengers by giving full refunds, rebooking and assisting in making alternative travel arrangements. Arrangements were also made for accompanied vehicles to be shipped by cargo vessels. 
-On 19 September 1979  (Hansard,  page 785)  Senator Watson  asked me as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, a question without notice concerning the price index of materials used in manufacturing industry. The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Statistician is responsible for producing the Price Index of Materials Used in Manufacturing Industry. The Statistician has informed me that this index is compiled as a 'net sector' index; that is, it relates only to those materials which are used by manufacturing establishments and which have been produced by establishments in sectors other than manufacturing (including overseas producers). Because of this, most of the items in the index are produced in agricultural and mining industries and therefore prices of items such as live animals necessarily have a significant influence on overall movements in the index. Although prices of live animals have contributed significantly to increases in the index in recent months there have been other occasions (for instance, the second half of 1977) when price decreases for live animals have resulted in less rapid increases in the overall index. 
It is possible to compile sector indexes on a 'gross basis' reflecting, for example, all materials entering the manufacturing sector (including semi-processed materials used in further manufacture). However the net sector approach is generally regarded as being more useful for studies of how inflationary pressures are transmitted from one sector of the economy to another. It is worth noting that the net sector approach is being adopted by an increasing number of countries. 
The Price Index of Materials Used in Manufacturing Industry is a 'fixed weights' index, in common with most analytical price indexes produced in Australia and throughout the world. The weights are based on material usage in 1971-72. The Australian Bureau of Statistics plans to commence a review and reweighting of this index in 1982; this review will be part of a program in which each of the wholesale price indexes are being reviewed in turn. Resources and other pressing commitments in the field of price indexes are unlikely to permit the review to commence any earlier than 1982. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Government is considering the desirability and practicability of a property consolidation in Tokyo, but no decisions have as yet been taken. 
The Government owns the bulk of its office accommodation and a substantial part of its residential accommodation in Tokyo. 
For the accommodation which it leases it currently pays as follows: 
Office accommodation- $ 1 90,556 per annum. 
Residential accommodation- $ 1,059,444 per annum. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2 ) The Australian Electoral Office has no information concerning the attitude of 18-20 year olds in relation to their choosing or not choosing to enrol. I am, therefore, unable to provide statistical or other information in response to these parts of the honourable senator's question. 
3 ) I am not aware of any survey of this kind and none has been undertaken by the Australian Electoral Office. 
The Office however has conducted and is engaged in programs designed to encourage all electors to meet thenlegal obligations under the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918. A simple information pamphlet written in English and nine other languages and describing clearly and succinctly electoral rights and responsibilities has been produced and is widely distributed Colourful, eye catching posters highlighting enrolment qualifications and requirements are displayed in schools and public offices throughout the Commonwealth. 
Use has also been made of radio and press advertisements to inform 1 8 year olds, persons who have changed their residential address and the ethnic communities of their electoral rights and responsibilities. 
So that students can be better informed about the development and operation of the Commonwealth electoral system, the Office in conjunction with the Curriculum Development Centre is producing a kit of teaching materials for use in secondary schools. 
A program of electoral education for Aboriginals living in remote communities is being conducted by Australian Electoral Office staff initially in South Australia and Western Australia and extending later to the Northern Territory and other parts of the country. 
In addition to these programs of encouragement a door to door check designed to see that all eligible persons living at each residence are correctly enrolled is earned out as far as practicable each year throughout Australia except in small towns and remote localities where 'Electoral Agents' perform a similar function. 
The report, if true, can do nothing but harm to Australia's export drive. I will refer the question to the Minister for Transport and seek a more detailed reply. 
I will seek the reasons for the delay referred to by the honourable senator and see whether the timetable he suggested can be met. 
I was not aware of the concern to which the honourable senator referred but I will transmit his question to the Minister and seek a reply on the action requested. 
I must confess that I was not aware of the single transmitter situation which has been described by  Senator Watson  in his question. I must say that in a number of areas of Australia, particularly rural areas, I have come across complaints that people have access to only one Australian Broadcasting Commission channel. I think it is a great compliment to the ABC that there is a solid demand for a second channel where it does not exist at the moment. I will refer the honourable senator's suggestion to  Mr Staley  and ask him to give it consideration or to refer it to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and Telecom Australia for consideration. 
I do recall that South Australia, like other States, earlier this year obtained the ability to seek infrastructure loans to promote major new industries and that, following that decision, Dow Chemical announced that it would be undertaking a feasibility study. My understanding of the matter is that the company is expected to be able to take a decision on the project in the first quarter of next year; so that is still a little way off yet. If the decision is taken to go ahead with the project the total capital investment would be in the order of $900m, including $256m in infrastructure. It is a very significant project for South Australia although, in light of the other exciting developments in that State, perhaps it is not quite as critical as it appeared earlier this year. 
I have not seen this morning's Melbourne  Age.  I have not read the particular transcript referred to by the honourable senator. I hope he is not advertising in this chamber his excellent services as a barrister. I have no idea what the Government's attitude would be on a matter on which I have no information. I will refer the question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for consideration and reply if he thinks necessary. 
-The request to which the honourable senator refers in his question would no doubt be a request to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  That information no doubt is within the knowledge of  Mr Nixon.  I will seek a reply to those questions for the honourable senator. 
A number of points were made in the debate on the Bill yesterday which, whilst I would not have thought they reflected exactly on the Bureau's ability to apportion funds reasonably, certainly threw into question some of the principles which were involved in the original legislation which was being amended. I have written to the Minister for Transport, drawing his attention to the various points made in that debate and asking him to give them consideration. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In light of the heavy debating schedule later in the day 1 seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill proposes certain changes to Part III of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 which covers the Academic Salaries Tribunal. At present the Academic Salaries Tribunal can make determinations and reports on academic salaries only in the context of a general review of all categories of academic staff. Since the last general review was undertaken in 1976 a number of matters have developed which require the Tribunal's attention. As the Act is presently constituted it is not possible to consider these matters without undertaking a general review. Such a review is not necessary at this time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow the Tribunal to make determinations or reports on academic salaries for: Firstly, newly established Commonwealth tertiary institutions; secondly, new categories of academic staff; and thirdly, particular categories of staff in all States and Territories for either universities, colleges of advanced education or both without having to undertake a general review. By extending the Act to cover these three areas it will be possible to clear up the outstanding matters. 
The Bill also corrects an ambiguity as to whether the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 covers technical and further education institutions which resulted from the creation of the Tertiary Education Commission which encompasses these institutions. It was never intended that the Tribunal should cover these institutions and the effect of the Bill will be to exclude them. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 

 Mr President, the Senate has had an unusually long adjournment debate. I will prolong it as little as possible. The major part of the debate was taken up by a speech by my colleague from Western Australia,  Senator Coleman,  on a series of matters which, in the main, related to the State Government. She dealt with the question of the transfer or proposed transfer of a State public servant which has led to his resignation; some complaints about the police in Fitzroy Crossing; her concern about mining on Aboriginal pastoral leases- on Noonkanbah in particular- and her concern about amendments to the Electoral Act in Western Australia. 
Although all these matters are within the direct control and jurisdiction of the State Government, there are some matters in which the Commonwealth Government has a concern because of its responsibility in Aboriginal affairs. Because they are State matters I do not have a total brief on some of the matters which she raised and I would not seek at this late hour to try to answer her point by point, in any event. I do have some personal knowledge of the matters she raised because, as she pointed out, I spent some time in Fitzroy Crossing and, along with a number of other people, including the State Minister, the Honourable David Wordsworth, State Minister for Lands, the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission,  Dr Charles  Rowley, and others, and Professor Colin Tatz who was also mentioned in her speech, we had an evening in which I was able to speak to both  Mr Davey  and his wife, Jan Richardson. 
With respect to the transfer of the State public servant, I understand from what  Senator Coleman  has put before the Senate and from what I have read in the newspaper, that the State Minister has asserted that the transfer was in the normal course of the administration of his Department. 1 do not therefore seek to comment on the transfer, except to say that in the course of my discussions with  Mr Davey,  the detail of which I do not propose to go into, I would have to say that he and I acknowledged that we had differences of opinion on the role of community development officers in the situation which exists in the Kimberleys. I make no more comment than that. I certainly found  Mr Davey  to be a man whom I thought to be very serious about his work and a man whom I believe was acting in good faith. But we certainly had differences of opinion about the way in which one ought to go about matters in the Kimberleys. 
The second matter referred to by  Senator Coleman  relates to the complaints about police. This has been raised with me directly by constituents in Western Australia in the last few days. At the moment I am considering what action, if any, is appropriate by the Commonwealth in the circumstances. I should say, however, that there is a conflict of evidence about precisely what the position is in Fitzroy Crossing with respect to the police. I am not in a position at this stage to say what the facts are. The third matter, the concern about mining on Aboriginal pastoral leases, has been a matter of considerable concern to me because of the conflict between the concern of Aboriginals on pastoral properties to keep miners off the properties and the clear concern of the State Government over suggestions that Aboriginal owned pastoral leases will not be open to mining. 
The general position of pastoral leases in Western Australia needs to be understood if the conflict is to be understood. In general, the pastoral lessee in Western Australia has no protection against the incursion of miners. The land is open to entry by miners for both exploration and mining purposes. The claims of the Noonkanbah community- I am familiar with them after having had several visits to that community- are not merely that particular sacred sites should be protected but that the whole property should be kept free from mining. That is a situation which I think is not possible to sustain, given the general position of pastoral leases in Western Australia. My own role in the matter has been to urge the community to discuss the situation with both the State Government and the mining companies with a view to protecting their special sites and at the same time protecting the quite fragile social structure which is developing at Noonkanbah and which I think is a very positive development at that place. 
For that reason I welcome the agreement which was made with Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and which I read about in the newspapers last week, which was a first in Western Australia. For the first time I think an Aboriginal community on a pastoral lease had entered into arrangements with a mining company which, first of all, in the terms reported in the newspaper anyway, gave protection to sites of significance. Secondly, it meant that the Aboriginals were involved in determining what work was actually done and where is was done on the property. I regarded that as a great step forward and I was hopeful that it would be followed by an agreement with Amax, which was the company involved in the earlier dispute to which  Senator Coleman  referred. 
For that reason I would like to express my very great regret at the repudiation of the agreement by the Noonkanbah community and to express the hope that that agreement will be reinstated as soon as possible. If that is not done I think that it is inevitable that there will be continued conflict between the State Government and the Aboriginal communities on pastoral leases. If the Aboriginal communities seek to extend the protection beyond sites of significance to the generality of the land that is contained within a pastoral lease, I believe that these continuing difficulties will inhibit other Aboriginal groups obtaining pastoral leases and will ultimately lead to the Aboriginal leaseholders who are trying to resist mining being overruled. I think that would be a matter for great regret because the situation we should all be trying to encourage is a situation in which the miner and the leaseholder get together and make arrangements of the sort that were apparently made with Conzinc Riotinto of Australia, which ensures that the community gets some protection in both a social and a spiritual sense. 
I do not wish to go on at length on this matter but I do want to refer to the latter comment of  Senator Coleman  that when the State Government goes to the polls next year it will receive the contempt that it deserves. That comment underlines one of the real reasons for stress in the Kimberley area at the moment. I think it is undoubted that there is considerable stress between the Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal population. The Kimberley region is an unusual area of Australia. It has approximately equal Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal populations but in some places, such as Fitzroy Crossing, there is a great majority of Aboriginals. Clearly there are problems. There are tensions which I think are very destructive of good race relations. There is some resentment among the non-Aboriginal community at the measures that are taken to improve Aboriginal conditions, including the measures that are taken by this Government. There is real concern- concern that I share- about the problems of Aboriginals and alcohol. Again, those problems tend to exacerbate community relations. There are situations of stress, such as the complaints against the police sergeant which were referred to by  Senator Coleman,  and the charges which were recently brought and dismissed against a station manager by some of the Aboriginals who had been working on the station. There is resentment about the fact that the Aboriginals at Noonkanbah have resisted mining when no other pastoralists have been able to resist mining in the same way. 
All of these things are symptomatic of what I see as an undesirable situation. There is deep cynicism in the non-Aboriginal community about Aboriginal claims in regard to secret sites. In these circumstances, I would like to stress to  Senator Coleman  and to the Opposition as well as to honourable senators on this side of the chamber that it is critically important that all people who are involved, whether they are from State agencies such as the Community Welfare Department and the police or Commonwealth agencies such as my own Department, pursue means of reducing these tensions and removing the difficulties which I have described. I have not purported to describe all the difficulties which exist. I think that, unless all persons and agents who are involved in the field see that as a positive duty, an already difficult situation will be exacerbated. I would like to put on record in the context of the comments made by  Senator Coleman  my own concern that some State officers- I do not refer to  Mr Davey-  have not seen it as their duty to arrive at an accommodation. I think that anybody working in the Kimberleys at the moment who does not see that as his positive duty is counter-productive and likely to do far more harm than good. If any officers of my Department did not have that attitude I would want them out of the area immediately. 
I do not have a great deal more to say. I am sure that all my colleagues wish I had had less to say because of the extreme lateness of the hour. Perhaps I should just mention the electoral situation and draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the Commonwealth is engaged with the Western Australian Government in a joint education exercise to try to ensure that Aboriginals in the Kimberley area are able to exercise their franchise without the difficulties that were experienced in the last election. It is my hope that this education campaign, like the one that preceded the by-election after the decision of the court of disputed returns, will reduce the difficulties which led to the voiding of the previous election. If the electoral changes which have now been passed through the State Parliament pursuant to recommendations made by a commission of inquiry prove to give rise to the difficulties which have been predicted by the critics of the Bill, I think we will have to examine that situation very carefully in order to see what remedial action can be taken to remove any disadvantages suffered by Aboriginals. I refer particularly to any disadvantages which might appear in the area of enrolment, of which area particular criticism has been made. 
The Commonwealth Government has put views to the State Government and the State Government has responded by saying that it believes that the amendments which are being made are in the interests of all electors and will avoid some of the difficulties of the past. I think all honourable senators ought to do whatever they can, to the extent that they have contact with people who are active in the Kimberleys, to try to ensure that the people of Noonkanbah and indeed of all the communities about which concern has been expressed tonight see that there is a need to build bridges in both directions. I for one will be doing my best to ensure that the difficulties that I have outlined in the Kimberleys are reduced rather than increased. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.37 a.m. (Thursday) 
I will seek a reply from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the questions asked by the honourable senator. 
in reply- As is so often the case when the Senate is concerned about time - 
Yes, I am. 
I understand from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that no special steps have been taken by Telecom Australia workshops to equip themselves for the manufacture of subscribers' apparatus. Ever since the Second World War the policy has been to equip the workshops for a limited manufacturing capability which allows skills to be retained for the reconditioning of equipment, which permits cost evaluations of equipment and supplies tendered by private industry and products which were essential to new equipment proposals, which provides a manufacturing source when tenders for products or equipment are not forthcoming from industry and which allows capacity to correct supply difficulties should they arise. So, there are very limited areas in which the workshops are used. The Brisbane workshops were commissioned recently to manufacture a secretary-executive multi-phone in the absence of suitable public tenders from private industry. Over 50 per cent of that work has been subcontracted to private industry. 
The second part of  Senator Baume  's question related to whether certain components were being purchased overseas on a duty free basis. The answer is that they are because the components are not available from manufacturers in Australia. These units are only available for limited customer trials. Customers will have a choice of paying a term rental or the capital cost together with the annual charge for servicing. The fourth part of his question related to whether these units should be regarded as goods produced for the purpose of trade. My advice is that the answer to that question is no. It does not follow that the purchase of these goods duty free is a breach of the Customs Act because section 80 of the Telecommunications Act 1975 states that the Commission is not subject to taxation under any law of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory. 
-I have a great deal of sympathy in the matter raised by  Senator Colston.  My own State, like his, does not change to daylight saving. I am aware of the considerable inconvenience that that causes when one is moving from one jurisdiction to another. As far as Australian Broadcasting Commission programs are concerned, I am sure that all honourable senators who have visited the Northern Territory will have been struck by the inconvenience that they suffer there because the radio programs there are not in the time slots to which they are accustomed. I can imagine that that would be a matter of considerable inconvenience in Queensland, which I understand places great reliance on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I will therefore ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to raise this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission to see whether Queenslanders can be given a more convenient service than apparently has applied. 

 - Senator Missen raises a matter which is obviously causing him concern. I must say that I do not have a full reply to the series of questions which he has asked. I understand that many home-built aircraft are required to meet airworthiness standards specified in the Air Navigation Regulations. They are required to have a certificate of airworthiness and must be operated by licensed pilots. Hang-gliders, some small sporting aeroplanes and gyroplanes, which may be either home-built or factory produced, are exempted from complying with certain air navigation regulations, including those requiring a certificate of airworthiness and the licensing of pilots. The attitude adopted by the Department of Transport has been that requirements without the means of enforcement are ineffective in safety control. I suppose that that is self-evident, but it does not really go to the heart of the question asked by the honourable senator. The particular sorts of aircraft to which he has referred lend themselves to weekend and holiday activity on private property in remote areas, and effective control and enforcement is very difficult in those circumstances. I understand that the Minister for Transport would wish to assure the Senate of his concern about any aircraft accident and that his Department is taking steps to minimise the risks in all forms of flying. 
I am aware of the conference which was held at Port Augusta and which was for the launching of a new Aboriginal employment campaign in that centre. It follows a very successful first campaign at Dubbo in New South Wales which was launched by  Mr Viner  in July of this year and which is an attempt to meet the very significant problem of Aboriginal unemployment. Honourable senators would be interested to know, I think, that the eight-week campaign in Dubbo resulted in the reference of 145 Aboriginals to employers and the actual placement of 79 Aboriginals in employment. Bearing in mind the significant levels of unemployment in many country areas of Australia, particularly among Aboriginal people, it is obviously a significant result. 

 Mr Viner announced that an essential part of the campaign in South Australia is for Aboriginals to impress on their own people that to obtain skilled jobs one has to be prepared to train and to put time and effort into learning skills. Port Augusta was chosen in part because of its high unemployment rate, which is estimated at somewhere around 50 per cent of the Aboriginal work force, but also because there is now potential for new employment in that area because of the possibility of the Redcliff and Roxby Downs projects and so on getting off the ground. Because of the chance of new development in South Australia and the creation of new jobs, the Government has seen it as sensible to try to prepare the Aboriginal community to take advantage of those new opportunities. I am sure that all honourable senators would join me in hoping that the success which we achieved in Dubbo will now be repeated in South Australia. 
-The two-airline policy is not related to who may be holding the shares in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and I do not believe that a change in shareholding would alter the Government's attitude to that policy. Of late several questions relating to the two-airline policy have been asked. I believe that they have all been responded to in the same way. The Government received a report on this matter which it has effectively adopted. It has at this stage reaffirmed the two-airline policy as being appropriate for Australia's needs. At the same time, the Minister for Transport has been taking action to try to ensure greater competition under that agreement. 

 - Senator Ryan earlier today asked me a question about the intention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  with respect to an inquiry by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I have since had advice from  Mr Staley  that the answer which I gave her on 18 September 1979 and which is reported in the Senate  Hansard  at page 760 is  Mr Staley  's reply to her question today. 
On 16 October  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question which was, in fact, a series of questions about a coroner's inquiry relating to the late  Mr Tommy  White Jagamara. The answers which I have now been provided with are as follows: The coroner's inquiry took place on 25, 26 and 29 June; 8, 23, 27 August; and 14, 20, 26 and 29 September. The coroner's finding was accidental death. No charges have been laid arising out of the death. I am advised that no compensation has been paid to this date. It is however, intended to claim compensation but the matter is in the hands of the Aboriginal Legal Service and that is a private matter on which I am unable to get any precise information. But the claim is being pursued. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the sixth special report of the Joint Committee on Publications. 
Leave granted. 
The statement is quite lengthy. As it is a matter of great detail, I seek leave to have the text of the statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

During 1977 and 1978 the Joint Committee on Publications conducted a comprehensive review of the operations of the Australian Government Publishing Service- AGPS- since its inception in 1 969. In its report, presented to Parliament on 23 November 1 978, the Committee concluded that the concept of a central government publishing office is sound and has led to a vast improvement in the standard of Commonwealth publications and their availability to the public. 
Whilst the Committee commented favourably on AGPS achievements in applying standards in the design and style of publications, in bringing a new expertise to the central procurement of printing and in effecting a wider and more efficient distribution of publications through government bookshop and mail order services, it was critical of a number of matters. In presenting the Committee's report to the House of Representatives its  Chairman, Mr Hodges,  expressed concern that the application of staff ceiling controls throughout the Department of Administrative Services, in which AGPS is located, had led to a reduction in its services or their decentralisation to other departments. He proposed that AGPS be re-established as a semi-autonomous and commercially independent body. 
It is true that AGPS has been experiencing difficulty through continuing growth in business volume at a time when the Government has been following a general policy of restraint in staffing. I can, however, assure the Committee that the 
Government has no intention of abandoning or decentralising to departments those AGPS functions which are most efficiently performed centrally. AGPS is already a separately identifiable organisation within the Department of Administrative Services. Honourable senators will be aware that even statutory authorities are subject to staffing restraints and I see no particular purpose being achieved by providing greater autonomy for AGPS at present. 
The Committee also suggested that AGPS operations should be placed on a more commercial footing. The Publishing Service, however, does not operate in a completely commercial environment. Because of the special nature of government activities it is subject at times to demands not encountered in the private sector and must act within government policies and procedural arrangements. Nevertheless some scope is seen for adopting more commercial methods and the Government is arranging for these possibilities to be explored. 
The Committee devoted a good deal of attention to the operations of the Government Printing Office, which has since 1970 functioned as a branch of AGPS. The Government believes there is a need to define more precisely the role of the Government Printer and his relationship with other elements of the Publishing Service. It accepts the Committee's suggestion that a charter of printing and publishing responsibilities be drawn up and approved. It does not, however, agree in all details with the statement of responsibilities included in chapter 18 of the Committee's report. 
It is the Government's belief, for example, that the Government Printing Office is an agency of the Government, not the Parliament. It could not be contemplated that the Parliament could direct the Government Printer to give priority to all parliamentary work at the expense of crucially urgent government tasks. Satisfactory arrangements already exist with the Presiding Officers for the printing of parliamentary publications and the Government Printer allocates priorities during parliamentary sittings to ensure that documents required for Parliament are produced within the required times. 
The suggestion that departments be compelled to place general printing orders valued at more than $500 with or through the Government Printing Office has been rejected as likely to add to delays and costs. It follows that the Government sees no advantage in separating the Government Printing Office from the other elements of AGPS. Alternative means will be  found of ensuring that, following a review of its plant and equipment, the productive capacity of the Printing Office is adequately utilised, including allowing the Printing Office to compete on an appropriate commercial basis for general printing work. 
Finally, the Government is unable to accept the Committee's proposals for a board of review with supervisory responsibilities over Commonwealth printing and publishing, including power to direct departments and statutory authorities on matters associated with their publishing programs. Such a body would cut across the executive responsibilities of Ministers and permanent heads. The Government, however, recognises the need for a broader base in developing policies and procedures connected with printing and publishing and has decided to establish a standing interdepartmental committee to act as a point of reference for AGPS and to advise its Minister. 
Many other matters were covered in the Committee's report. Of the 108 recommendations requiring a response from the Government, 42 have been accepted fully and 21 with some modification. A further 8 have been deferred until reviews have been completed. The Government's response to each of the Committee's recommendations is set out in the attachment to this statement. 
I seek leave also to have the attachment to this statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The attachment read as follows- 

JOINT COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS: INQUIRY INTO THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING SERVICE AND ITS ROLE IN COMMONWEALTH PRINTING AND PUBLISHING 1964-78 
Government Response 
Recommendation 1 
That at the commencement of each Session of Parliament, a Resolution be agreed to by both Houses of Parliament similar to the following: 
That the Government Printer be responsible to the Presiding Officers for the printing of all Parliamentary publications and be provided with the necessary resources to meet Parliamentary printing requirements. That at all times, the Government Printer give priority to Parliamentary work. 
Response 
The Government believes that the Government Printer is an agency of the Government, not the Parliament. It observes that the longstanding arrangements with the Presiding Officers for the printing of parliamentary publications have proved satisfactory. The Government Printer allocates priorities during parliamentary sittings to ensure that the documents required for Parliament are produced within the required times. The Parliament will appreciate, however, that there will be circumstances when the Government Printer would need to give priority to urgent Government printing. The Government also believes that it would be preferable for parliamentary as well as departmental publications to continue to be arranged through the AGPS Publishing Branch. 
Recommendation 2 
That the Government Printer carry out such confidential and urgent work of the Government as may be determined from time to time. 
Response 
Accepted. 
Recommendation 3 
That the Government Printing Office be made operationally independent of the AGPS and all administrative support necessary for its operation be placed within the responsibility of the Government Printer. 
Response 
The Government does not accept this recommendation, believing that there is a close relationship between printing and publishing and that separation of these functions would be inefficient. The present arrangement, which was proposed by the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications (the Erwin Committee) in 1964, has worked effectively. 
Recommendation 4 
That the Government Printer be administratively responsible to the Secretary of the Department administered by the responsible Minister. 
Response 
In line with its response to Recommendation 3, the Government does not accept this recommendation. An appropriate organisational structure for both printing and publising functions will, however, be drawn up when details of the Charter (see the response to Recommendation 92) have been determined. 
Recommendation 5 
That all factors involved in calculating the rates of charge used by the Government Printer be reviewed after taking into consideration the practices followed by State Government Printers, commercial printers and Government Printers of comparable overseas countries with a view to ensuring that a 'user pays' principle is instituted. 
Response 
Accepted. The basis of rates of charge used by the Government Printer will be reviewed by the Department of Administrative Services. 
Recommendation 6 
That the policy of allocating a fixed proportion of printing and publishing work to the public and private sectors be discontinued. 
Response 
The Government's long-term objective is to direct as much work as possible to commercial printers, while maintaining the Government Printer's capacity to carry out urgent and essential parliamentary and government printing. The proportion of printing and publishing directed to either sector is not allocated inflexibly as the recommendation suggests. 
Recommendation 7 
That a review of Government Printing Office plant capacity and equipment be undertaken to ensure that capital equipment employed by the Government Printer is not excessive and is basically directed towards meeting the printing requirements of Parliament and the urgent and confidential printing needs of the Government. 
by leaveToday the Senate will resume the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1 979. The Government proposes that the debate should be completed before the Senate adjourns this evening. As I advised the Senate on  Senator Carrick  's behalf last Thursday, we now face a full program of legislation. Next week 10 Bills or groups of Bills will need to be considered. These include: Two migration amendment Bills; overseas student Bills; the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill; capital assistance for the States; the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill; the social security-repatriation package; a sales tax exemption Bill; the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill; the National Labour Consultative Council Amendment Bill; and the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill. A program for the week will be prepared as usual later today. 
There will be a further 1 8 or 20 debates to be completed next month. These include a number of Bills concerned with matters in the Budget such as the two Appropriation Bills, the usual States grants education Bills, the income tax Bills and the air navigation charges Bill. The Parliament will be able to adjourn for the Christmas break when the necessary legislation has been fully considered. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies does not take the nationality of applicants into account when considering applications for research grants or the appointment of research workers to the staff. I do not consider that the cost in time and money of extracting information about the nationality of grant recipients and staff could be justified. The Institute makes few grants for research to be carried out overseas either by Australians or non-Australians. 
-The matter raised by the honourable senator is not within my knowledge. I will seek a reply from the Minister for Transport. 
-I will refer that question to  Mr Nixon  for reply. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the working group report on the national communications satellite system 1979, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  relating to the report. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) Four. 
) Metropolitan daily and weekend newspapers. 
See answer to(5). 
No. 
$68,943. 
$2,882 for production costs. 
7 ) Telecom 's Information and Publicity Budget. 
No. Not considered justified 
-I did see the report of the accident to which the honourable senator referred. It reminded me of the matter which he raised with me earlier in the year. I would suggest, however, that whilst this matter is very important and whilst it is receiving attention, the fact that there has been a single accident ought not, I think, cause undue concern. Frequently there are fires in motor vehicles which are powered by petrol. The fact that one has occurred with respect to a vehicle powered by liquefied petroleum gas is not in itself perhaps all that surprising or worrying. 
The Commonwealth does consider it essential that there be uniform safety standards and uniform legislation covering LPG powered motor vehicles. The Australian Transport Advisory Council 's Motor Transport Group has supported the establishment of a uniform nationwide system for regulating LPG powered vehicles, but it is not considered necessary to draw up new Australian design rules for such vehicles. The Government will maintain its effort to encourage the use of these vehicles in major urban areas for reasons relating to the conservation of fuel. The honourable senator may be assured that the Commonwealth will continue to take a very active interest and watch this matter very carefully. 
This matter was drawn to my attention by a constituent of mine of, I think, Yugoslav origin. The fact that it was drawn to my attention in the way in which it was drawn to my attention bears out that the answer to the second part of the honourable senator's question is yes; it could be offensive to some people, because it certainly was offensive to my constituent. 
If the honourable senator would let me answer the question it might help him to judge the issue. In any event, the issuing of stamps is in the hands of the Australian Postal Commission. Before the Senate recently was the matter of a stamp for the Association of Apex Clubs of Australia. After representations from both the public and the Government, the Postal Commission acceded to a request to issue a commemorative stamp for Apex. That underlines the fact that the issuing of stamps and what is shown on them is not a matter which is within direct government control. 
I will refer the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for comment and no doubt he will send it on to the Postal Commission. But 1 make the point that it seems quite clear to me that there would be still many people in Yugoslavia who profess Christianity. I would have thought it was in a proper spirit of Christianity to hold out the hand of friendship to all countries. I really find this sort of selectivity a little puzzling. Some of my constituents do not agree with me and, apparently, nor does  Senator Bonner.  On that basis, I will refer the matter to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
-The question of the closure of South Australian rural lines frequently comes before the Senate. All honourable senators by now are aware that the matter is governed by arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State which were entered into by the previous government of which the honourable senator was a supporter. Those arrangements include the requirement of consultation when lines are being closed. I assume that both governments in consultation are concerned with the sorts of issues which are concerning the honourable senator and by the economics of the operation. It is well known to all honourable senators that the railways concerned lose substantial amounts of money. I am not familiar with the particular memorandum and I am not able to confirm or deny its existence. I will seek further information on that. 
-On 20 September  Senator Gietzelt  asked me a series of questions relating to grants made by my Department to Jaxone Pty Ltd. I have here a document showing the questions and a series of answers to them. I seek leave to incorporate the document in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Has a person responsible for or associated with Almond Growers, Jaxone and other companies received, or have those companies received, amounts of up to $250,000 from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the purpose of employing Aborigines in growing almonds or in performing other work? 
No. The following grants under the Special Work Project scheme have previously been made to one of the principals in Jaxone Pty Ltd (Stuart Partnership): 1976- 77: $6,633 on 7 March 1977 to employ and train an Aboriginal in stud duties for 12 months; 1 977- 78: Two grants totalling $37,932 on 7 September 1 977 to employ and train four Aboriginals in plant propagation and gardening for 12 months. 
A grant of $34,783 was made to Jaxone Pty Ltd in November 1978 to employ 14 Aboriginals on cash crop projects and the development of an almond growing project, subject to interdepartmental review six months after commencement of the project. 
Can the Minister say what Aborigines have been employed, and when, by the companies or associated recipients of that money? 
The grants listed above to Stuart Partnership provided for the employment of 14 Aboriginals for varying periods in the five positions in 1977-78. 
Three Aboriginals have remained in employment with Stuart Partnership since the grants expired in 1 978. 
Three Aboriginals were employed for varying short periods totalling 14 man weeks in April and May 1979 by Jaxone Pty Ltd. 
Have the Government's funds been used to buy cattle or for any other company purposes in the Tamworth district or elsewhere? 
Yes, part of the grant of $34,783 was used to buy cattle. 
Has the principal concerned a business association with the Department's Area Officer, including a common interest in race horses? 
I am informed that the Area Officer concerned bought, in October 1977, one Murray Grey stud cow in calf from a Holbrook company through  Mr P.  Stuart, the principal concerned, acting as agent, and has since had the cow and its calves on agistment on  Mr Stuart's  property. I am advised that the Area Officer has had no other business association with  Mr Stuart. 
Can the Minister say what steps the Government has taken to recover federal funds improperly applied? 
The Department has arranged for ownership of the cattle, which have increased in number and value, to be transferred to an appropriate Aboriginal organisation. 
Yours sincerely, 
F.M.CHANEY 

 Senator A. T. Gietzelt, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
-Senator Colston last Thursday asked a question without notice concerning arrangements for Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcasts in Queensland with the introduction of daylight saving in other States. I partially answered that question and sought further information from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  He has informed me that virtually all radio and television programs, including news and public affairs programs, will be broadcast at the normal Queensland times. The daily1 p.m. television news bulletin from New South Wales and Sunday programs from that State from the commencement of transmissions until 4 p.m. will be telecast or relayed live to Queensland and will thus be seen one hour earlier than normal. Radio and television live broadcasts of sporting events from other States of course will relate to time of broadcast from the originating State. 
-On 16 October,  Senator Mulvihill  asked a question relating to the audit of the Seafarers Retirement Fund and its perusal by the relevant Senate estimates committee. I had some information but had to seek further information on that part of the question. I am now advised that the Fund is not operated by the Commonwealth or by a Commonwealth instrumentality and its operations therefore are not subject to perusal by a Senate estimates committee. The trust deed contains provisions for audit of the accounts of the Fund, and that is carried out in accordance with Victorian law, which the trust deed adopts as the law governing the Fund. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905 authorising the establishment and operation of microwave radio links are only issued to private companies and State Government instrumentalities. 
Authorisation for Telecom and Commonwealth Instrumentalities to establish and operate microwave links is embodied in the frequency assignment notification forwarded to such organisations. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Dr Sharwood 's formal appointment is to act as a member of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal during the vacancy in the office of member of the Tribunal. 
The terms and conditions of  Dr Sharwood  's appointment are in accordance with determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal. 

 Dr Sharwood participated in meetings of the Tribunal to consider and determine the Tribunal's decision following the public inquiry. 
On 31 May 1979  Senator Evans  asked me, as the Minister representing the 
Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications had drawn to his attention evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee B in its recent hearings, by the Commonwealth Employment Service, establishing that the overall average cost of the Australia Post courier service in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas for the delivery of messages is $ 1.90 per message whereas the average cost per telegram is $3.70? Does the Minister accept that that amounts to prima facie evidence that telegrams, like most other Telecom services, are now wildly overpriced? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An agreement was reached earlier this year for Australia Post to provide a national system for the delivery of job notification advices on behalf of the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) wherever delivery services are available. The system utilises Australia Post as its principal means of delivery within metropolitan areas of capital cities and in a few large provincial centres, with other Australia Post services being used in other country areas. Economies of scale permitted the negotiation of rates which proved acceptable to the CES. 
The average delivery cost per message would be of the order of $1.90. However, because of the competitive nature of the courier industry, the details of charges negotiated with the CES are regarded as confidential. A comparison between the average rate charged by courier, and the cost of sending a telegram is not valid. The telegraph service involves the acceptance, transmission, receipt and delivery of telegrams throughout Australia. There is no control over the place or time of lodgement of messages, the number or the destination. Conversely, the courier agreement with CES provides for collection of messages from a predetermined point at a set time for delivery within a defined area. For this reason, it is possible for Australia Post courier to schedule the drivers' daily activities to ensure that labour resources are used effectively. Because of these substantially different operational arrangements, it is reasonable and logical for the cost of delivering CES messages by Australia Post courier to be considerably lower than the average cost per telegram. 
Lead Levels in Children 
I have no recollection of any public statement of the son mentioned by the honourable senator in his question, but I will check on it and seek the information he requests from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
-The Utopia land claim has been before the Land Commissioner. I think that the hearing is to resume shortly. In the interim, it appears that a particular point of law is being taken to the High Court of Australia by the Northern Territory Government. The issue is whether land held by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission is land held on behalf of Aboriginal people and therefore subject te claim under the Act. That is a matter which is sub judice. It would not be appropriate for me to make any comment on the substance of the matter. This is but one of a number of issues which have been raised with me as being in the class of practical problems which arise under the administration of this legislation. Matters have been raised by a great mixture of people: Aboriginal organisations, Aboriginals, the Northern Territory Government, pastoralists, mining companies and individual territorians. 
With respect to some of these difficulties, the Government has made it clear on a number of occasions, both through the Prime Minister and through me, that it affirms the principles behind the land rights legislation in the Northern Territory. The legislation is of course pioneering legislation and the Government accepts that there can be practical difficulties affecting all the groups that have made the representations. It is perhaps worth remembering that  Mr Justice  Woodward in his second report referred to the need to examine at intervals the working of the system. I would agree also with  Mr Justice  Woodward when he stressed, however, the importance of the broad bases of the arrangements remaining undisturbed. Because I have had all these representations, subject to the normal conditions applying to the engagement of consultants, the Government will be engaging  Mr Barry  Rowland, Q.C., to advise me on the practical difficulties in the operations of the Act.  Mr Rowland,  in his examination of the Act, will be consulting all interested groups. I have had discussions with two of the three land councils about this proposed appointment and I expect it to occur very soon. 
I did see the report in the  Daily News  headed 'Minister Criticizes Aborigines'. It referred to some comments I made in the Senate in the early hours of last Thursday in response to  Senator Coleman  when she spoke in the adjournment debate. I would prefer to describe the actual comments I made in the Senate as expressions of regret rather than criticism. In particular in that speech I used the words: 
For that reason I would like to express my very great regret at the repudiation of the agreement by the Noonkanbah community . . . 
Later I said: 
. what we should all be trying to encourage is a situation in which the miner and the leaseholder get together and make arrangements of the sort that were apparently made with Conzinc Riotinto of Australia, which ensures that the community gets some protection in both a social and a spiritual sense. 
I certainly stand by those comments, but I am very pleased to say that earlier today I was advised by the Aboriginal Legal Service in Western Australia that the Noonkanbah community has reaffirmed its agreement with CRA and that the agreement is now on foot again and will apply for the balance of this year. In addition, there are to be further negotiations between the 
Aboriginals and the company with respect to what might occur after that. 
I express that satisfaction because I think it is important, particularly where there are Aboriginal communities on pastoral leases without any formal protection against mining, that they are able to enter into arrangements with mining companies which do protect both their spiritual values and the communities that they are building on those properties. I very much welcome the agreement and the return to it by the Noonkanbah community. 
The last part of the question asked by the honourable senator relates to the present position on pastoral leases. The position is quite straightforward. Under Western Australian law and indeed under the law of other States and Territories relating to pastoral leases, leaseholders do not get protection against mining. Miners are free to go and to explore and usually to work minerals, subject to State mining laws. Aboriginal owned pastoral leases in Western Australia are no exception to that rule. Aboriginal pastoral leases, like other areas of land, do have protection for special sites of significance, or sacred sites. That is available generally. 
The Noonkanbah case has raised questions as to precisely how effective that protection is. That is one of the issues before the Supreme Court of Western Australia at the moment. This whole area is one of very great significance for Aboriginals. I welcome any sign that governments and miners are alive to the very real needs of Aboriginals and are taking them into account. 
I regret that I am not in a position to confirm or to refute the alleged facts which have been raised by the honourable senator in his question. If the facts are as he alleges, there may be a variety of explanations. The work may be intermittent or part time, and so on; I just do not know. I will seek a precise answer from Telecom for the honourable senator. That inquiry will have to be directed through  Mr Staley  to the Telecommunications Commission which, as the honourable senator would understand, is an independent statutory body. The matter lies within its province. 
I am aware of the matter raised by the honourable senator- both the conviction and what has happened subsequently. My advice is that under Northern Territory legislation people who are found guilty of murder are to be held in prison. There is no stipulation as to different treatment for offenders who are children. 
I am advised that the Northern Territory Administration is addressing itself to the problem which has arisen out of this case in which juveniles have been found guilty of murder. I note that an honourable senator interjects and says: 'That is disgraceful'. This is the first time that this situation has occurred. Apparently attention has not previously been directed to it. 
Last financial year requests were made for additional finance. My recollection is that additional finance was given to the branch of the legal service which was involved in that case. A great deal of expense was involved because it was a very lengthy trial and involved a large number of counsel. I have had no request with respect to any question of an appeal. If such a request is made it will be given appropriate consideration. The legal services in the Northern Territory have been granted additional funding this year because it appeared to me that they were not as adequately funded as legal services in some other parts of the country. I anticipate that they would have funds to handle what would be regarded as the normal requirements of the services this year. If this or other cases put exceptional strains on their resources I will give consideration to making further funds available. 
The honourable senator in his question has accurately quoted both  Mr McLeay  and the sentiments of the Government in its desire to promote national unity and pride. Pursuant to that wish, the Government has in the recent past extended the range of organisations which are entitled to receive the flag as a free issue and has made available the national song on a cassette. I will note the request by the honourable senator that the list be further extended to include tertiary institutions. I will refer it to my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, for consideration and reply. 
-Earlier today,  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question about the imprisonment of certain children who were convicted of murder. It probably will be of interest to  Senator Keeffe  and other honourable senators to know that documents for an appeal with respect to children have been prepared and are in the process of being lodged. It is anticipated that an appeal will be made for the adult defendant and that a bail application is also being prepared and lodged. That does not deal with the matter of internment, if those people are to be interned, but it is relevant to the general matter raised by the honourable senator. 
-On 9 October,  Senator Bonner  asked me about the absence of references to Aboriginals in the 'Life. Be In It' television advertisements and about Project Australia. I have received from the Minister for Industry and Commerce some advice about the Project Australia campaign which refers to the fact that there has been some Aboriginal involvement in the sense that the boomerang has been isolated as one of the great achievements of Australian ingenuity.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have the answer to  Senator Bonner's  question incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
The document read as follows- 
One of the publicly stated aims of Project Australia is that it be a national apolitical community involvement program among all people within the Australian community: to increase senses of national identity, pride and purpose towards our country, our people and our achievements, skills and potential. 
The television commercial to which  Senator Bonner  has referred was purposely designed to avoid being identified with any one field of endeavour, personality, or community group with the exception of the cartoon character of 'Norm' who makes a brief appearance to introduce the commercial. The aim of this commercial as part of the initial public awareness program is to relate to all the objectives of the campaign. One of its main messages is that there is an urgent need for Australians of all backgrounds to draw together in a common endeavour to support our way of life- to give ourselves- individually, our families and our nation a better chance in a changing world. 
However in one of the follow up commercials specific reference was made to the Aboriginal community. This commercial proclaims Australians' practical ingenuity and inventiveness with the goal of fostering awareness and increased pride in the nations' achievements. The ingenuity of the boomerang was one of the achievements mentioned. 
-On 16 October,  Senator Messner  asked me a question without notice concerning rental concessions for Australian Telecommunications Commission landlines used by pharmacies in burglar alarm systems. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided a reply which indicates that it is difficult to differentiate between users of those facilities.  Mr President,  I seek leave to have that answer incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that in determining its price structure for any services Telecom must have regard for the use to which a service is to be put and generally the users of that service are expected to meet its costs- the so called "user-pays principle". In the case of landline rentals this policy has been following particularly having regard to the specialised nature of the facility. 
Telecom receives numerous approaches from various organisations including service type organisations for concessional charges and without doubting the worthiness of the claims for preferential treatment, Telecom believes that it is wrong in principle for Telecom users generally- rather than the community at large- to bear the cost of these concessions. An example of the applications of that principal is the pensioner telephone rental concession in which the Department of Social Security reimburses Telecom for the  'A  rental granted to eligible pensioners. 
An obvious difficulty arises if action were taken outside of these principles to discriminate in favour of a particular organisation as this would make it very difficult to decline extending a similar preferential treatment to other groups which may claim entitlement to concessional rates. 
-On 1 1 October,  Senator Knight  asked me a question about aircraft carrying radioactive materials. He referred to the 1976 report on Canberra City waste of the Parliament's Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. I have been provided with the following further information: Radioactive materials may be carried in Australian aircraft only in accordance with the safety requirements for the carriage of dangerous goods which are prescribed in Air Navigation Orders. Those requirements limit the quantities which may be carried in any one consignment and prescribe requirements for the packing, handling and carriage of such goods. In regard to the carriage of radioactive materials, as with all other classes of dangerous goods, the requirements include provisions for notification when such materials are being carried and for notification to the various emergency authorities should an accident occur to an aircraft carrying them. The situation in respect of the carriage of radioactive materials is common to Canberra and all other Australian airports. 
Although I have some information on that matter, I think that to do justice to the question asked by the honourable senator I should get a proper reply from the Minister for Transport. 
My attention was drawn to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday in which  Mr Jackson,  the New South 
Wales Minister for Youth and Community Services, is quoted as being extremely critical of certain allocations to West Brewarrina, which is a settlement in New South Wales. I regret the adversary approach which has been adopted by  Mr Jackson.  It is an approach which I do not adopt. He has since telegrammed me requesting co-operation in organising a conference in West Brewarrina of all interested parties to assess the situation. I have advised him of my support and in fact I directed my Department to be represented at a senior level. 
The report contained in the  Sydney Morning Herald  is not accurate in any event. In fact originally an allocation of $1 1,000 was made in the Budget, and that is indicated in the Budget Papers that were circulated to honourable senators. I have had a series of representations about West Brewarrina, starting with a visit of National Aboriginal Conference representatives from New South Wales. I received various written representations after that. I undertook to visit West Brewarrina. I did so some weeks ago. I would have to say that I agree with the view that the Aboriginal representatives expressed to me that conditions could not really be worse. They described the situation at West Brewarrina as the worst in New South Wales. 
As a result of that recent visit in response to the views which were put to me by the Aboriginal people of West Brewarrina and representative of the local shire, who seem to be taking a very positive and sensible interest in the matter, I allocated further funds which will enable the place to be upgraded to some extent. The additional allocation is only some $8,500. Although that is not a large amount it will at least improve immediate living conditions through a general clean-up and will enable some improvement in home maintenance, the payment of outstanding water and other rates and urgent repairs to sewage systems. In addition, there are to be cooperative arrangements between the shire and the community which will ensure that the place is kept cleaner in future. 
I welcome the interest of  Mr Jackson.  He visited the area after I had seen representatives of the NAC but before I was able to get there myself. I hope that by co-operative action between the various agencies of government the situation will be improved very quickly. 
-I think I saw the article to which the honourable senator referred. There have been very few articles in the  National Times  recently in which I place great credence. In fact only one attracted my attention; the rest seemed to me to be rather footling and irrelevant to the nation's great needs. I appreciated the  National Times  attempt to enliven what is generally a fairly doleful argument about the South Australian railways, about which we have had a series of complaints in this chamber from various South Australian senators. Usually they complain about the effects of the agreement which was entered into by the Whitlam Government and the South Australian Labor Government and which resulted in the Commonwealth's undertaking substantial financial responsibilities for the South Australian railways. The honourable senators supported the arrangements at the time but have been complaining about them ever since. 
It is highly unlikely that in the event of any revamping of that railroad there will be a locomotive which is named the  Gough Whitlam  unless it is a locomotive which is regarded as utterly unreliable. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, I can assure the honourable senator that if his name is used on any new locomotive it will be a sign of the very great confidence that we have in that mode of transport. 

 - Senator Jessop has raised this matter a number of times in the Senate, and he has been assiduous in following up this matter of the Eyre Peninsula. I am pleased to be able to tell him on this occasion that he does not have a problem. Despite the undoubted benefits which the domestic satellite will provide to many Australians in remote areas, the plans for the Eyre Peninsula already announced by the Government and conveyed to  Senator Jessop  will go ahead. During the visit by  Mr Staley  to the Eyre Peninsula earlier this year, in company with  Senator Jessop,  I believe the Minister made it clear in a series of meetings that he could give no guarantees on the exact timing of this project, but he undertook to provide as soon as possible detail of the exact sites to be included and promised to progress the project without delay. The detail of the sites has now been provided to  Senator Jessop,  and I understand that he has made this information public in the area. 
With the finalisation of further engineering and planning studies at the end of this month, all approved aspects of the project will be immediately added to the capital works program. Although no specific allocation has been made in the 1979-80 appropriation for this project, it should be made clear that it will be possible immediately to fund the project as the capital works program includes a forward commitment approval. To summarise, planning for the project is now well advanced, it will progress with all speed and there is capacity in the financial program to fund the capital works once planning is completed at the end of this month. 
I am not aware of any recent change of attitude. It is amazing how our views of history differ. I can recall strong representations being made by both Government and Opposition senators about the Stuart Highway. I recall also the difficulty which I think  Mr Nixon  had in getting the South Australian Labor Government to include provision for that in its national highways allocation. Over the last year I have answered a number of questions on the matter, which included the fact that  Mr Nixon  eventually was able to get  Mr Virgo  to agree to allocate to that important project some of the funds available to that State. My recent recollection is that increased funds have been allocated this financial year. I have little doubt that the new Government in South Australia will be listening to the urgings not only of honourable senators on this side of the chamber but also of honourable senators on the other side who believe that this project should have some priority. I will ask the Minister for Transport to advise me whether there has been any recent revision of arrangements. I am not aware of any. If there has been I will pass the information on to the honourable senator. 
It is obvious that the honourable senator and the Minister for Transport move in different circles, because the information that I have been able to obtain from the Minister on the question is contrary to that suggested by the honourable senator. The Minister has advised me that the Airbus A300B4, the aircraft that is being considered by TAA, is the quietest airliner currently operating in the world and the only existing jet airliner believed capable of meeting the latest aircraft noise standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Its noise levels are significantly lower than those of the Boeing 727 and the McDonnell-Douglas DC9 aircraft currently used by the Australian domestic airlines. In fact, the low noise levels of the aircraft are an attractive feature which will be taken into account in considering any proposal to use it in Australia. It would be useful if the honourable senator could take that information back to the people from whom he has heard to the contrary, because it might relieve their concerns in the matter. 
I assure the honourable senator that I do have in mind the problems, which he described in prefacing his question, in the fields of Aboriginal health, education and employment. It is a fact that a large number of organisations, both governmental and nongovernmental, do work in these areas. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in fact, funds by way of grant-in-aid in the vicinity of 1,000 organisations, so a great variety of groups, mainly Aboriginal, are active in this field. On the other hand, I do not have any evidence that there is a serious lack of efficiency or high cost associated with most of the Aboriginal organisations. The procedures which have been established for consultation between the organisations and the co-ordination of plans with other Government departments and authorities ensure in the main that overlapping and duplication of effort are minimised. I do recognise that this is a continuing problem. 
In the field of health, I have promoted a series of discussions among State health authorities, Aboriginal medical services, my own Department and the Commonwealth Department of Health to try to ensure that we do reduce to a minimum any areas of duplication and waste, and also in the hope that we can develop more common approaches to the problems that have been tackled by different agencies. There has been a great deal of effort over the last four years to tighten up the procedures of the Department. I am hopeful that some of the problems to which the honourable senator refers in his question have been reduced, if not totally eliminated. If  Senator Kilgariff  has particular instances in mind, I would be very grateful if he would draw them to my attention. I can assure him that they would be carefully examined. The Government and Aboriginal organisations are interested in seeing that Aboriginal people get the maximum benefit for the dollars which are available. 
The honourable senator raises a matter which has been the subject of some publicity about the State of New South Wales this week in a weekly journal. It is certainly true, as he says, that the operation of totalisator agency boards in the States does return substantial income to the States. I was not aware of the figure of Sim a week in New South Wales, but I take the honourable senator's word for it, if that is the figure. Of course, it is axiomatic that starting price bookmaking does rely on telephones. For those reasons the matter which he raises in this question is of some significance. 
I do have some advice from the Minister on this matter because of the publicity it has recently received. Telecom Australia takes the view, which the Minister shares- I am told- that the responsibility for initiating inquiries and pursuing prosecution rests with the appropriate authorities, which are the police forces within the various States and the Commonwealth of Australia. The Minister acknowledges that it is not new for criminal elements to avail themselves of modern technology. That is a problem. The more sophisticated the technology that is available, the more it facilitates criminal activity. 
If anybody has any hard evidence of the involvement of any employee of Telecom in any alleged operations, this should be brought to the attention of the relevant police force as quickly as possible. I would like to say, in case that part of my answer is misunderstood, that I am sure the honourable senator is not suggesting- I am not suggesting in my reply- that there is any complicity on the part of Telecom employees. I will refer the question generally to the Minister because I am sure that it would be the wish of Telecom that to the greatest extent possible its service is available to improve the lot of the citizens of Australia and not as an aid to crime. 
It is my understanding that the statement of purpose is a statement which is obtained simply for the purpose of ascertaining the relevant charge. If there were a question of misstating the purpose and thereby paying the wrong fee, that may well be an offence. I am doubtful that in other circumstances there would be any actual offence committed if there were no effect on the relevant charging rate. Again I will take the question as one warranting perhaps more detailed examination than I can give now, with a comparative lack of information. I will let the honourable senator have a reply if I can usefully add anything. 

 - Senator Grimes asked me a question without notice on 23 October 1979 about a licence for Air Tasmania to fly between Sydney and Flinders Island. The Minister for Transport has now given me the following information: 
Approval was given to Air Tasmania to operate between Sydney, Flinders Island, Devonport and Hobart under Air Navigation Regulation 203. Since this approval was given major issues concerning the viability of airline services over the regional routes of Tasmania including King and Flinders Islands have been raised with the Minister. In view of these issues it was felt that further consideration should be given to the Air Tasmania proposal to operate between Flinders Island and Sydney. The other services have not been impeded in any way. As a consequence of this review the Department of Transport requested that Air Tasmania return its licence for the Sydney-Flinders Island service. I am unable to say what expenditure Air Tasmania incurred in relation to its proposed Sydney-Flinders Island service. However, the review I referred to previously is being undertaken as a matter of urgency and a final decision on this matter will be taken in the near future. 
-On 17 October  Senator Evans  asked a question without notice concerning a report in that day's Melbourne  Age  about share transactions concerning  Mr Rupert  Murdoch, News Ltd and Ansett Transport Industries. The response is some three paragraphs. 
I would seek leave and be quite happy to incorporate that in  Hansard,  if that suits the Opposition. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that he has seen the report mentioned by  Senator Evans  and, indeed, a number of newspaper articles commenting on various share dealings concerning Ansett Transport Industries and possible effects upon the licence of ATV Channel O. 

 Senator Evans knows, of course, that power to determine the ownership of commercial broadcasting and television stations is vested in the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 and is, therefore, a matter over which neither the Minister nor the Government has any control.  Mr Staley  is confident, however, that, when dealings in the share market involving Ansett Transport Industries have stabilised sufficiently, the Tribunal will undoubtedly consider the effect of those dealings on the licence for station ATV-O Melbourne and the im- plications of the ownership or control provisions of the B roadcasting and Television Act on the transactions. 
In considering any change in the control of the licence for ATV Channel O the Tribunal would, of course, be bound by the relevant provisions of the Act and in its deliberations would undoubtedly have due regard to any evidence previously placed before it at a licence inquiry. 
-On 17 October 1979  Senator Watson  asked a question without notice about Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcasting facilities and reception difficulties in the north-west and other areas of Tasmania. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has now provided me with a response. Once again, if it suits  Senator Watson  and the Opposition I would seek leave to incorporate that answer in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that he is well aware of the situation in these areas of Tasmania, particularly as a result of the strong representations he has received from  Senator Watson  and other Tasmanian senators and members about a number of issues concerning radio and television facilities. 
Engineering advice to  Mr Staley  is that reception through the ABC's transmitter at Launceston is adequate in that city although areas which  Senator Watson  mentioned in his question are certainly experiencing reception problems and require improvements. 
Funds to extend the National Broadcasting Service are already committed to projects in the 1979-80 Capital Works Program. However, because of the strength of representations from  Senator Watson  and others, this matter will receive full consideration in the 1980-81 and 1981-82 years of the Government's on-going Three Year Capital Works Program. 
The possible establishment of a second ABC regional network will be included within the development of future plans although policy and other technical issues may delay final and detailed planning for some time. 
The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) A number of parliamentarians had made representations to me, on behalf of various members of the public about government support for the Pritchard Steam Car Project. To those colleagues I did release information obtained during the testing program that was carried out primarily with public funds made available to the Company by the Commonwealth and Victorian State Governments, and that was carried out on the power units manufactured at public expense at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory. This information was made available so that my colleagues could satisfactorily explain to their inquirers why I did not propose that further public funds should be made available to 
Pritchard Steam Power Pry Ltd for the project. The information was incomplete in the sense that not all of the information available to me was provided, since much of it was irrelevant to that purpose. I do not agree with  Mr Pritchard  's reported statement that it was misleading because of its incompleteness; I note that  Mr Pritchard  is reported to have acknowledged that none of the information provided was incorrect. I do not agree that the information provided in the circumstances in which I provided it can be classed as confidential detail which I ought not to have released; nor can I agree that its provision in those circumstances has jeopardised the project's development. 
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine: Pre-natal Statistics Unit (Question No. 2054) 
-Obviously the Government appointed  Sir Colin  Woods to this position on the basis that it regarded him as the best person available. The honourable senator has raised a series of detailed questions on which I am not able to give an immediate response. I see that he has the question in writing. I suggest that he put it on notice and a reply will then be provided. 
I am sure that I can give the honourable senator a clear assurance that there will be no unfair Government pressure. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Ministerial approval was given for the following numbers of flights by airline jet aircraft during the Sydney Airport curfew: 
(a) July 1974, 0; August 1974, 0; September 1974, 1; October 1974, 0; November 1974, 0; December 1974, 30; January 1975, 0; February 1975, 0; March 1975, 16; April 1975,0; May 1975,0; June 1975,0. 
July 1978, 0; August 1978, 0; September 1978, 1; October 1978, 1; November 1978, 0; December 1978, 37; January 1979, 1; February 1979, 1; March 1979, 3; April 1 979, 2; May 1 979, 0; June 1 979, 8. 
Note: Of the above flights, 36 in December 1978, 3 in March 1979 and 5 in June 1979 were approved to avoid extreme passenger hardship arising from flights being delayed following industrial action. 
December 1974, 30; January 1975,0. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
The term 'noise certified aircraft' means that the aircraft meets the requirements of Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation as to the maximum permissible noise levels. Except for the earliest models, the Boeing 747 is noise certified. All models of the McDonnell Douglas DC 10 are noise certified. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The role of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport Noise Abatement Committee isto assist in improving public understanding of the aircraft noise problem, to facilitate public participation in finding the best possible answers and to advise on aircraft noise problems on a local level. 
The members of the Committee (additional or alternate members may also attend) and the organisations they represent are: 
Local Government 

 Mr W. Brimble; Leichhardt Municipal Council 

 Mr B. Burns; Lane Cove Municipal Council 

 Mr J. P. Chambers; Rockdale Municipal Council 

 Mr J. W. Colliss; Sydney City Council 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries has proposed a voluntary fuel code and I would refer the Honourable  Senator to  the Prime Minister's Energy Policy Statement of 27 June 1 979 and the Minister for National Development's press release of 5 July 1979. 
The 'average' figure is a sales weighted average of motor vehicle fuel consumption as determined under Australian Standard 2077-1977 (Methods of Test for Petrol Consumption of Passenger Cars and their Derivatives). 
As the program has only just commenced and Australian Standard 2077 was only finalised in 1977, the only year for which text data is available is 1978. The Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries has informed the Government that the national average fuel consumption of new vehicles in 1978 was 1 1.3 litres per 100 km. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The trials were conducted, on my behalf, by my Department and Telecom Australia with the assistance of the Canadian authorities. Accordingly, a licence was not required under either the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1905 or the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. With regard to international co-ordination for the re-positioning of the Hermes satellite, this matter was undertaken by the Canadian authorities. 
It is interesting to hear interjections from the Opposition to the effect that we should stop starving the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is apparent that what the Opposition is suggesting is that the ABC should have unlimited public money to bid up the figure for certain sporting events. This does not seem to me to be a very sensible solution to the problem. The problem raised by the question is a very real problem to a large number of Australians. I am aware that very great concern is felt in the areas which suffer as a result of the telecast of the Melbourne Cup not being relayed right around Australia. I am aware of the facts raised by the honourable senator in his question. I am aware of the very strong public feeling. I will refer the matter to  Mr Staley  and ask him to give it further consideration and urgently advise the honourable senator of his views. 
-This matter has been raised previously in the Senate. I think it has been indicated previously that the request which was made by the Yarrabah Council in January of this year referred to the section in the Act mentioned by the honourable senator in her question and also asked the Commonwealth Government to negotiate with the Queensland Government to secure land tenure of the Yarrabah reserve. Pursuant to that request, a series of negotiations has been held between the two governments. As recently as last week I was in Brisbane and had further discussions with  Dr Llew  Edwards, the  Deputy  Premier. The matter is currently before the Queensland Government. It is expected that at least one Queensland Minister and I will visit Yarrabah later this month to discuss the matters which have been under consideration by the two governments. 
My intention will depend on the outcome of both the discussions with the Queensland Government and the discussions with the people of Yarrabah. But the matter has not yet reached finality. As has been pointed out by the Senate Standing Committee on Consitutional and Legal Affairs, a declaration under that Act may lead to other actions by the Queensland Government -we have seen that already- and may lead, therefore, to the need for other action by the Commonwealth Government. It all seems extremely untidy and I am hoping that we will find a tidier and more acceptable solution. 
I do not specifically recall advising the Senate of that but I assume from the honourable senator's question that that is what I said. I do not believe that the legislation is to be introduced during this current session. I will have to investigate the matter further and let him have a more detailed reply. 
I well recall the report to which the honourable senator refers. It has been referred to often in the Senate, and its recommendations on children and television have been much debated by the public. Since the release of the report, each of the recommendations made by the Committee has been carefully considered by the Postal and Telecommunications Department and by the other government instrumentalities responsible for areas which are covered by these recommendations. Many of them fall within the responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and other departments or authorities. The Minister tells me that he has virtually finalised his recommendations to the Government on what its response should be. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  hopes to make a statement outlining this response before the end of the current session. I saw the article to which the honourable senator referred in his question. I can only say that if the few advertisements I have seen recently were better than the programs, I must have missed what was on the television. I thought that the advertisements were appalling and that the programs were quite good. 
I have no knowledge of anything that Qantas is doing to commemorate what is a very historic event. It is a fact that during that era Australia was a world leader in the field of aviation and that that pioneering flight was of particular significance to this country. I will seek urgently information from the Minister for Transport to see whether Qantas is affording some special recognition to this anniversary. 
-On 24 October  Senator Chipp  asked me a question relating to the conditions of employees at the Allora Telephone Exchange outside Toowoomba. I was not able to give him the detail that he required at that time. On the same day the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications wrote to him explaining the delay in getting information to me and giving the information that he had requested. I seek leave to incorporate that letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Minister for Post and Telecommunications Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T.2600 24 October 1979 
My dear  Senator, 
I understand that you today raised in the Senate the conditions relating to employees at the Allora Telephone Exchange outside Toowoomba. 
Before dealing with the substantive issues I would like to point out that I do treat requests for information from Senators with great urgency. While it is true that this matter was flagged with my office last Monday afternoon, the detail of your question was not available to me until yesterday and I have in the interim been seeking detailed explanations from the Australian Telecommunications Commission, which as you know has its headquarters in Melbourne. They were not able to get the required information to me until after Question Time today. 
I understand that the facts as outlined in your letter of 19 October 1979 to  Senator Chaney  are correct except that the Exchange concerned is Allora rather than Toowoomba. It should be understood, however, that the remuneration is based upon criteria other than the actual number of hours involved. At Allora, and a number of other small official manual exchanges, night attendants are contracted to sleep at the Exchange and provide manual assistance to subscribers during night time hours. Normally hours are a total of 62 per week and the payment is based upon the number of actual interruptions by telephone calls to their sleep. 
The allowance paid is not based so much on the hours but is compensation for the inconvenience of having to sleep at the exchange. In practice many of the night attendants are Telecom staff who undertake these duties after completing their normal day duties. Where the attendants are not employed by Telecom they normally have other employment during the day. 
Two persons were contracted to work as Night Telephone Attendants at the Allora Telephone Exchange prior to the exchange being converted to automatic. They worked alternate 7 nights (i.e. 7 nights on and 7 nights off) for a total of 62 hours for a remuneration of $65.23. The persons are contracted under terms of Section 9 of the Telecom Act 1975. Regarding sick leave, holiday pay and redundancy pay, persons under contract to Telecom are not eligible for these conditions of employment. 
In relation to compensation, on 2 1 March 1 978 one of the persons under contract suffered a back injury whilst in attendance at the Exchange. The matter was referred to the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation for a ruling to determine if she was covered by the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 as amended. The Commissioner ruled that she was an employee for purposes of the Act because among other things the method of performing her work was governed by the Commission, and her claim has now been accepted. 
I hope this information clarities these matters for you. I apologise that it took me a little longer to get it than either you or I would have hoped. 
Yours sincerely 
-On 17 October 1979,  Senator Douglas  McClelland asked a question without notice concerning delays in the printing of licence inquiry reports by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has discussed this matter with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on a number of occasions and  Mr Gyngell  has expressed his concern and that of his fellow tribunal members over the delays. During the financial year ended 30 June 1979, the Tribunal conducted 57 public inquiries, which often meant that Tribunal support staff as well as the Tribunal members themselves had often no sooner concluded one inquiry when they were called upon to commence preparations for the next round of hearings. Although the Tribunal's decisions are invariably released without delay, the preparation of full reports has had to be deferred in some instances to such an extent that the Tribunal has decided that its reports will now be published in abridged form and will be roneod or photo-copied to avoid the normal delays associated with fully printed reports. A consolidated printed report of all inquiries conducted during the year will then be published at the end of the year. 
The new system is to apply to the reports of inquiries conducted since 1 July 1979. As to the specific report mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland- the Adelaide hearings earlier this year-  Mr Staley  informs me that the report in a non-printed form will be available by the end of this week. 
I would like to take a little of the time of the Senate to respond to some of the points which have been raised in the Senate tonight by  Senator Keeffe.  I would start by expressing my regret that the confidential correspondence which has been read to the Senate by  Senator Keeffe  has been leaked - 
I am quite sure that it did not come from my office, and I suppose I have no way of finding out where it did come from. But I do express regret that, at a fairly delicate stage of my dealings with the Queensland Government, it has been made public in this way. I do not think anybody would assess the situation in Queensland as far as Aboriginal Affairs policy is concerned as being a particularly easy one. There have been manifest difficulties, and those difficulties have been shown publicly, particularly in respect of the problems surrounding Aurukun and Mornington Island, which problems surfaced very dramatically in 1978. The failure of the two governments to agree as to what was an appropriate course of action in those two Queensland settlements led to ,he Commonwealth Government legislating following a State take-over of those two reserves to ensure that Aboriginal people on reserves in Queensland had the right to opt for selfmanagement of the reserves. 
Honourable senators are fully aware of the history of that matter, and many of them participated in the debate on that legislation. The Commonwealth proceeded to apply that legislation to Aurukun and to Mornington Island and in turn the Queensland Government abolished the reserves so that the Act ceased to have effect to them. That in turn led to discussions between the two governments at the very highest level of government. Again these are facts which are well known to the public and to the Senate. In April 1978 the two governments came to an agreement which was put in writing and signed by both the Premier of Queensland and the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by a number of other Ministers. The agreement undertook to provide for the opportunity for the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island to manage their own affairs through the instrument of local government. 
Throughout those events, and indeed since those events, it has been the consistent policy of the Commonwealth not only in Queensland but also throughout Australia to try to ensure that the Aboriginal people in Australia do have the right to have a greater responsibility for their own affairs. The expression which is commonly used is self-management, but we can also use the expression which the Yarrabah people used to me when they came down for discussions in September, when they stressed that they were anxious to promote self-initiative among the Aboriginal people at Yarrabah. They wanted to do more for themselves and to be more selfreliant. They are views expressed by those people in very simple and direct terms with which the Commonwealth is in complete agreement, and I believe if we study the report of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement which was recently tabled in the Queensland Parliament, to which I shall refer shortly, it will be found that there is a similar commitment to that principle enunciated in that report. That is the first objective of Commonwealth policy and one which I believe is in the interests of the Aboriginal people and which would, I think, have the general support of the Australian community. 
The second objective has been to obtain secure tenure of land which has been occupied traditionally by Aboriginal people. In the State of Queensland that means the quite extensive reserve areas which have been occupied for many years by various Aboriginal communities. Those twin objectives were achieved by the Commonwealth in agreement with the State in the case of Aurukun and Mornington Island in a way which I believe has confounded many of the critics of the agreement which was made in April 1978. 1 think most people, if not all who have visited Aurukun and Mornington Island, would agree that those communities, with their elected councils, upholding tenure of the land under 50-year renewable leases, has been a success story which - 
I think most observersindeed, all but the most partial of observerswould agree that very great success has been achieved in those two places. What was left undone by the April agreement was to determine how the Commonwealth and the State would handle future applications by Aboriginal communities to be brought under the Commonwealth legislation. That has been a question mark hanging over the area of policy ever since the Aurukun and Mornington Island agreement. That question was raised by the petition which I think was referred to by  Senator Keeffe,  probably in the first few minutes of his speech, which I missed, which was delivered to the Commonwealth in January of this year. That petition took into account the inquiry which had been made by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which indicated that the operation of the Commonwealth legislation could be defeated by the sort of action which was taken by the Queensland Government in March or April of 1978 to abolish the reserves to which the legislation might be applied. 
It is interesting to look at the letter which was sent to me in January 1979 in which there was reference to that matter and to the fact that, as they quote the Senate Committee: 
The effectiveness of the Act depends on the ability of the Commonwealth Government to negotiate land tenure for any community which may petition to come under the Act. 
I quote: 
We have given a great deal of thought to the question of land tenure and we respectfully advise the Minister that we would not be satisfied with the kind of leasehold land tenure the Commonwealth negotiated for Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
They go on: 
Consequently we respectfully request the Minister to try to negotiate with the Queensland Government on behalf of the Yarrabah council a form of land tenure for the Yarrabah community council similar to that legislated for Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory, with the addition of timber rights. 
It goes on with further requests if those negotiations are unsuccessful. Since the date of that letter there have been consistent attempts by the Commonwealth to engage in discussions with the Queensland Government, and indeed more than attempts. There have been consistent discussions with the Queensland Government in an attempt to arrive at a common position which could be offered to the people of Yarrabah to ensure, firstly, that they do have the ability to assume some or all of the responsiblities for management of their own affairs; and secondly, that they should have secure title to the areas which they inhabit. 
I have had a great deal of criticism, and I understand that criticism, over the fact that the negotiations have taken a long time. I would say, as I have said before, that what happens at Yarrabah is obviously going to be significant to any of the Aboriginal communities in Queensland which might seek to advance their rights of management, and so on, and the tenure of their land, and hence it is understandable that both governments have been approaching this matter with considerable care. 
I should like to quote very briefly from the Press release that was issued following my discussions with the Yarrabah Council on 1 1 September 1979- discussions in which  Dr Edwards,  the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland took part with, I understand, the full authority of the Queensland Government. I recorded the fact that the governments proposed-  to develop proposals for discussions with the Yarrabah community by the end of October with a view to both Commonwealth and State Ministers visiting Yarrabah in November for further discussions with the Council. This was in accord with the Council's request that no final decisions be made which affected the Yarrabah reserve until they had been discussed with the Council. 
My latest discussions with the Queensland Government took place in Brisbane on 29 October. During those discussions I developed with  Dr Edwards  a proposition that he was to put to the Government of Queensland. I understand that the proposals are now before that Government but a decision on them has yet to be taken. I have also arranged with  Dr Edwards  to arrive at a suitable date on which to attend at Yarrabah for meetings that the Council has undertaken to hold. I notified his office today that, because of the sittings of this Parliament, the last week in November would appear to be the first available time. 
Therefore, as far as I am concerned, the matter is following a course which the Commonwealth has wished it to follow- that of trying to develop common proposals between the two governments which will avoid the massive confrontation which has threatened from time to time on issues of Aboriginal affairs. I take the view that the proper role of the Commonwealth Government is to seek that common approach, if it can be achieved. The spectre of confrontation might delight some people in this chamber and out of it, but I do not believe that the interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland are best served by confrontation. If the fundamental objectives of Commonwealth policy cannot be met by the sort of process that I have followed for the past 10 months, I suppose that confrontation will be necessary. But I believe that that is a last-resort situation and that we have not yet reached the last resort. 
The proposed discussions with the Yarrabah Council at the end of the month represent the culmination of months of patient effort on the pan of both. Queensland Government officials and Ministers and Commonwealth Government officials and Ministers. It is my fervent hope still that we can arrive at a solution that is satisfactory to all of the parties concerned, principally the people of Yarrabah, but also both governments which carry such a heavy responsibility for the improvement of the conditions of the people of Yarrabah. 
A great deal has been said, both publicly and in private correspondence, which would give rise to the feeling that an accommodation is not possible. I can understand the impatience of those who feel that 10 months is far too long. However, I believe that it is possible to reduce the areas of difference when one examines the fundamental objectives of both governments. I would like to quote a number of passages from the report of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, which was tabled only a few weeks ago in the Queensland Parliament. That report, which in my view is extremely insulting to the Commonwealth in a number of respects, also sets out the objectives of Queensland State policy. I would like to quote a few of the relevant paragraphs because I think that they sit perfectly well with the policy of this Government insofar as it relates to the rights of Aboriginals to manage their own affairs free of interference. The report reads: 
Of great single importance was the extension of the powers and prerogatives of elected Community Councils, which as corporate bodies are now able to accept greater responsibilities for the conduct of their communities. 
At a time when it is apparently fashionable to attack the public service infrastructure, which provides the administration and essential services on Communities, it is important to record that no Council has accepted the financial and administrative responsibility for the running of Community affairs to the extent for which provision has been made. 
I interpolate that the clear meaning of that section is that the Queensland Government stands ready to allow the councils to adopt greater responsibility for their own affairs. The report continues: 
Councils are legally able to carry out many of the functions provided by the Public Service administration and establish a greater degree of independence and selfmanagement by raising their own revenues, receiving other public moneys and accepting responsibility for provision of services. 
The present level of participation by Community Councils ranges across a broad spectrum, with the most experienced and responsible forming a partnership in decision-making with the State Public Service administration. The mutual confidence enjoyed by these Councils and the State Government points to the next step when Councils accept sole responsibility for the provision of selected essential services. 
I emphasise those concluding words, which relate to that next step which we are seeking to promote. The report continues: 
Queensland policy, which discourages 'hand-out' or 'sitdown' style assistance, encourages Council decision-making powers to be matched by responsibility for the performance of the functions over which it exercises authority, to standards acceptable to the broad society. 
Thi continued development of Community Councils, in terms of experience, maturity, and the active role they fill in day to day affairs, is the logical progression encouraged by State policies. 
Again, I find that very much in line with the promotion of individual and community responsibility which is fundamental to Commonwealth policy. Finally, the report reads: 
In summary, Councils have been consulted by the Public Service administration for over a decade; a number are partners in decision-making and have launched their own projects; now provision exists and encouragement is given for Councils to become independent local bodies, responsible for the delivery of essential services. ' 
I repeat the words: 'independent local bodies, responsible for the delivery of essential services'. They are the words of  Mr Pat  Killoran, Director of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement in reporting to his Minister- a report which was tabled in the Queensland Parliament. That is one of the bases for my belief that the objectives of the two governments can be married; that we can maintain the fundamental objectives of Commonwealth policy, which are concerned with the rights of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders to have greater responsibility for their own affairs- complete responsibility if that- is what they want; self-management, if that is the word one wants to use, in the way in which the Commonwealth has always expressed its policy. 
Secondly, the desire for security of tenure over land which has been traditionally occupied by these people is not, I believe, a matter of fundamental dispute with the Queensland Government. I do not wish to minimise the fact that there have been difficulties, but the Commonwealth has approached this matter not in a spirit of confrontation, but rather in the firm belief that it must encourage co-operation so that we can get on with the real job of improving the lives of Aboriginal people in Queensland and elsewhere. That means improving their housing, health, education and all of those things which, statistically it is quite clear are manifestly inadequate. 
To date, the Opposition has remained fairly silent on the matter. I have assumed that it has been anxious, as has the Government, to see improved working relations achieved between Commonwealth and State so that together we can do a more effective job. That remains the firm objective of this Government. I trust that it will receive the support of the whole of the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There has been over a period of time some justifiable criticism of the range of broadcasting services provided by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the Northern Territory, and one aspect of this criticism has related to the coverage achieved by existing ABC radio stations. 
During a visit to the Northern Territory earlier this year the Minister did indicate that the dissatisfaction of Northern Territory residents with the current situation was recognised, and that concurrent with the review of the future of the Cox Peninsula installation, an investigation of what might be done to improve radio services would be carried out- this investigation- to include an assessment of whether or not the installation of a HF inland transmitter be pursued. 
It has now been decided that the inland HF service will be co-sited with Radio Australia on Cox Peninsula. 
The Government has recently approved a works schedule providing full Radio Australia transmission by late 1982. Funding for the inland service is proposed for 1981-82 and the project is scheduled for completion in that year. To meet this timetable it will be essential for work to proceed at Cox Peninsula simultaneously with the Radio Australia project. No problems in doing this are foreseen. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The use of differential sales tax on motor vehicles, varied according to fuel economy, is one of a range of fuel conservation measures recently considered by the Government. 
The Government decided not to implement this measure at present because of a number of practical and administrative problems. Motor vehicle policy considerations and the question of disruption in the industry were not the only factors that influenced the decision. 
Other considerations related to establishing criteria which would accurately reflect fuel efficiency, treatment of optional equipment which affect fuel consumption but might not be fitted at the time the tax is applied and how to treat vehicles with dual fuel systems (petrol/LPG). 
In July 1978 ATAC considered a report entitled Transport and Energy Overview'. The report was publicly released in September 1978 and is available from the AGPS. This report considered, inter alia, means of encouraging more fuel efficient vehicles, including the possible use of fuel taxes and road taxes. ATAC, assisted by its Energy Working Group, is giving continuing consideration to a number of specific transport fuel conservation proposals, such as graduated registration fees. At their July 1979 meeting, 
Transport Ministers agreed to follow up a number of proposals put forward by the Group, and to this end undertook to raise with their colleagues those proposals involving areas of common interest and responsibility. At this stage there are no firm plans for a broadly based road tax to encourage fuel conservation. 
The Government is not aware of any submission from the New South Wales Government proposing a broadly based road tax to discourage the use of passenger cars with high fuel consumption. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Learjet 35 and 36 model aircraft have been approved to operate during the curfew. Earlier model Leariets have not been so approved. 
Approval for Leariet 35/36 and Cessna Citation aircraft to operate during the curfew at Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide was given shortly after the types first arrived in Australia in 1976 and 1977. Over forty flights were granted individual approval between this time and when the blanket approval for a six month trial period was introduced on 1 April 1979; 
b ) The Minister for Transport. 
Representations were received from the operators of these types of aircraft. 
No. 
Yes. 
13 August 1976; 
the Press Release was initially issued through the press gallery and later to aviation related organisations. 
All of the local government bodies represented on the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport Noise Abatement Committee were notified through the committee. The precise date of notification is not recorded but the matter was discussed at the meeting held on 2 1 September 1976. The Committee receives detailed lists of all the movements by jet aircraft during the curfew on a regular basis and is informed of all matters relating to the curfew. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The first restrictions on aircraft operations at Sydney during the late evening and early morning applied from 1958 when Qantas and the foreign air carriers serving Australia introduced the early model Boeing 707 and Douglas DC8 aircraft on international operations. The restrictions precluded the scheduling of flights between 2230 and 0600 hours, though off-scheduled operations between these hours were not restricted. At this time the restrictions were not known as a ' curfew '. 
In the early 1960s, the noise abatement measures at Sydney were expanded to include the control of aircraft engine ground running, the establishment of a preferred runway and flight path system for aircraft operations, and restrictions on some types of flying training operations in addition to the established restrictions on scheduled civil jet flights. Off-scheduled civil jet flights between 2300 and 0600 were required to have prior approval from the Sydney Airport Director. The restriction on scheduling and the requirements for approval of off-scheduled flights were also applied to domestic aircraft operations when the first jet aircraft were introduced into the domestic aircraft fleets in the mid 1 960s. 
In the late 1960s, special jet movements in curfew hours required Ministerial approval. While the Aircraft Director could approve only 'essential' jet movements during the curfew, the other noise abatement measures, introduced in the early 1960s, were also extended and refined to provide additional noise abatement. 
After the publication in 1 970 of the Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, the procedures for obtaining approval for off-scheduled jet aircraft operations in curfew hours were tightened up. Ministerial approval was required in each instance. 
In December 1972, the noise abatement measures at Sydney were tightened up further, with the introduction of more restrictive requirements on aircraft engine ground running and a virtual ban upon off-scheduled operations by jet aircraft in the curfew period. The only exceptions allowed were for operational emergencies, natural disasters, emergency and mercy flights and instances of significant passenger hardship. 
Early in 1976, the low noise level general aviation jet aircraft, which had recently arrived in Australia (Learjet 35 and 
Cessna Citation), were exempted from the curfew. The general exemption was withdrawn when very few regular incurfew flights by these types of aircraft took place. However, Ministerial approval was granted on an individual basis as required, until the introduction on 1 April 1979 of the six month trial of a general approval for operation by these aircraft during curfew hours. The statistics from this trial are currently being collated. 
From 1 July 1979, a six month trial commenced for delayed international flights by noise-certificated aircraft to land at Sydney between 1 1 pm and midnight subject to stringent operational conditions to minimise noise impact on the community. This trial was terminated on 3 October 1979. 
During the 1950s and 1960s, no. Since 1970, yes. 
Precise dates for the changes which evolved during the period prior to December 1972 are not recorded. Since December 1972, they have occurred as indicated in the response to Question 2. The Ministers with responsibility for Civil Aviation since the late 1950s were: 

 Senator the Hon. S. D. Paltridge;24. 10.56 to 10.6.64  Senator the Hon.  N. D. Henty;10.6.64 to 26.1.66 The  Hon.  R. W. C. Swartz, M.B.E., E.D.-26.1.66 to 12.11.69 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No. However, in the first instance, a single indirect report was received by the Australian Coastal Surveillance Organisation of an aircraft being sighted at Silver Plains airstrip in late June 1979. 
Obviously the date quoted in the question is incorrect, but on 28 August 1 979, such a statement was made. 
The Bureau of Customs has advised that the result of the investigations into alleged sightings at Silver Springs and other strips in the area was inconculsive. The Bureau also advised that their investigation team identified sightings by a number of persons at Coen and Port Stewart on 29 June 1979 as being a Bush Pilots Airways DC3 on a scheduled flight. The investigation was pursued through the normal surveillance channels, which involved officials of the Queensland Government and my Department of Transport. 
Mercury in Shark (Question No. 2035) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The current 3-year lease over the Perth Airport carpark expires on 30 November 1 979, and agreement has been reached between the Department of Transport and Wilson International Pty Ltd to extend the arrangement after that date on a monthly basis to a maximum of 6 months under the existing conditions. 
The Department will call tenders in the immediate future as soon as planning and engineering details are available for necessary major extensions and modifications to the carpark. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
Expenditure of $1. 83m was incurred during 1978-79. Commitments of the order of $5m exist for contracts let to date and I expect to announce shortly some additional contracts the costs of which will be stated then. 
The following companies have either previously had or are presently carrying out contracts for coastal surveillance services: 
On 5 June 1979  (Hansard,  page 2610)  Senator Bishop  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, a question without notice concerning Legionnaires' disease in Australia. In my answer I undertook to seek further information from the Minister for Health and he has provided the following details: 
The organism causing Legionnaires' disease (Legionella pneumophila) is very widely spread and occurs in a wide variety of environments. It needs air, warmth at about body temperature and moisture for survival and growth. It has been isolated from the basins of cooling towers and evaporative condensers but it has not been found in other air conditioning or evaporative cooling plant or equipment. 
The normal route of infection is through breathing air laden with exceptional and unnaturally high concentrations of the organisms. 
In some outbreaks of the disease, there is strong presumptive connection, but only very rarely an unambiguous connection, that the infection is carried in air discharged from a cooling tower and that this air has either found its way to where people could inhale it directly or has entered a building either through open windows or the intake to air ventilation systems. 
In view of this, the possibility of infection having been spread by this means in the case of the disease reported in Melbourne was considered to require investigation. Victorian health officials therefore consulted with the Centre for Diseases Control, Atlanta, Georgia, and obtained the services of an investigator who visited Australia in June 1979. 
The investigator examined the circumstances relating to Legionnaires ' disease among Telecom employees working at the City West Exchange and to the issues of diagnosis and control of the disease in Victoria. 
The Victorian Minister for Health has sent me a copy of the investigator's report and it is being examined in my Department. 
One of the recommendations of the report, that the ventilation system at City West Exchange be modified to prevent any air from being introduced into the building from the exhaust air duct, has been carried out. 
Samples of condensate from the City West Exchange have been examined and the specimens were deemed to be unrevealing. No connection between the outbreak of Legionnaires' disease and any source has been established. It should be emphasised that the investigator found that available evidence did not suggest that any of the employees at City West Exchange are presently at unusual risk in developing Legionnaires ' disease. 
The Australian airconditioning, heating and ventilation industry and the Commonwealth Department of Housing and Construction have offered to assist the Health Commission of Victoria, if requested, in any examination of proposed control measures to minimise the potential risk from cooling towers and evaporative condensers. 
My advice on that matter is that the answer is no; that the tender evaluation which is now in an advanced stage is proceeding normally. 
-I will refer that question to  Mr Nixon  for reply. 
I will refer that question to  Mr Staley  for consideration and reply. 
-The Minister for Productivity has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
$283,000. 
As at 1 October 1979, forty-five full-time and two parttime staff were employed by the Bureau. The operating cost of the Bureau during the financial year 1978-79 was $814,400. 
Approximately 50 per cent of the Bureau's time is spent directly in its industry advisory role. 
Sixty-four. 
Twenty-nine substantial reports arising from the Bureau's operations since 1975 have been made available to the public at prices between $5 and $20 each. 
The Bureau is part of the Productivity Development Division of my Department and makes a significant contribution to the Productivity Improvement Programs conducted by that Division, particularly in relation to standards and educational matters in the materials handling field. 
Tax Rebate on Hearing Aids (Question No. 2052) 
The document that was complained of was written by a tenant of Balyanna and the specific allegations contained in it are, firstly, a complaint about  Mr Kyle's  alleged dictatorial style as  President  of Balyanna with particular references to increases in rent, evictions, and the holding of meetings; and, secondly, that no audit of Balyanna affairs exists. 
This document was the subject of extensive departmental investigation, and the allegations raised were found to be groundless. Nothing new has been raised now and it should be reiterated that departmental requirements include the necessity for the submission of quarterly financial statements and an annual audited statement. This has been forthcoming from Balyanna and gives the lie to the assertion that $3,000 could not be accounted for. The third allegation relates to a statement by a tenant of Balyanna complaining about action with respect to entry into her house and removal of a dishwasher. These allegations have been investigated and again the claims made could not be substantiated. In that case there was a response to the allegations by me, and I think the simplest way would be if I could have the leave of the Senate to have that response incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 9 July 1979 
-My personal satisfaction is fairly complete because I hear mainly news items on radio and television and they seem to have a quite satisfactory standard of language. But there are certainly complaints from time to time about the standard of language used on other programs-both Australian Broadcasting Commission programs and commercial television programs. I think that all honourable senators would be aware that language standards- as are other standards- on commercial radio and television are the responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission has responsibility for its programs. Both these organisations are statutorily independent of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. If the Minister receives representations with respect to the use of what might be regarded as bad language on the media, his policy is to refer those matters for consideration to the organisations which are responsible. 
This is an area of some difficulty because the acceptability or otherwise of particular types of language or expressions within the community varies within different sections of the community. Hence, making overall judgments is difficult. Objections will no doubt be raised from time to time and it is the responsibility of those statutory bodies to try to ensure that standards meet the general requirements of the community. 
-I acknowledge the honourable senator's continued interest in the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway project. I record with satisfaction the facts that he has just put before the Senate; namely, that the project is nearing completion and that there is to be a ceremony next week with respect to it. The Adelaide to Crystal Brook railway, which is related to the overall profitability of the railway system, is a matter on which the Government has received a submission from the Australian National Railways. The Government has that question under consideration at present with a view to reaching a decision as soon as possible. 
I think it is quite obvious that there is a strong feeling on both sides of the chamber that people would like to see major sporting events broadcast throughout Australia so that all Australians are able to see them. I do not think it is true to say, however, that some problems do not exist when a body which has insufficient facilities to provide coverage all round Australia has exclusive rights. This problem is not solely a financial one. My advice is that there are real engineering and programming difficulties for the Australian Broadcasting Commission if it has to provide different programs in different parts of its network. In any event, the Minister has asked the Australian Broadcasting Commission to consider carefully its role in this general area of televised sporting coverage. It is certainly acknowledged that it is not just a matter of funds. There are questions of co-operation between the sporting bodies concerned, the commercial networks and the ABC. It is certainly  Mr Staley  's hope that progress can be made in the near future. 
-I am a little puzzled by the question, because it does not appear to me to be particularly anomalous to have two flag falls in the circumstances outlined by the honourable senator. For example, if he were to take a taxi from here to his home and later were to take a taxi from his home to here he would similarly be loaded with two flag falls. This matter is one of considerable debate and one in relation to which the interests of the States tend to differ; that is, the weighting between the flag fall component and the rate per kilometre, which was mentioned by the honourable senator in his question. I think that a deal of information was put before the Senate quite recently on those matters. I will refer the matter to  Mr Nixon  who may have a more subtle mind than I. He may be able to see that there is some distinction which should be drawn in regard to this matter. 
I have heard of the report referred to by the honourable senator in his question. Industrial accidents and injuries are acknowledged as being very costly; indeed, more costly to Australia than are industrial disputes. The estimated cost given by  Mr Spicer  and the honourable senator of about $3, 600m is, I understand, a quite conservative estimate. The loss of working time is about six million man days per annum. I understand that the Minister for Productivity will be providing an answer to a question on notice in the House of Representatives today. That will give more detail on the actual facts and figures raised by the question. As far as the attitude of the Government is concerned, it agrees that this is an area which needs attention, but occupational safety and health is primarily the constitutional responsibility of the States. The Commonwealth is responsible for its own employees and in this respect has issued a code of general principles and some 30 codes of practice. The Minister for Productivity meets regularly with the responsible State Ministers. Following a recent meeting of those Ministers a review body is being established to consider national machinery to promote occupational safety and health. The Commonwealth also contributes to the work of the National Safety Council of Australia. 
The honourable senator also asked whether I am aware of the conclusions of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee in 1975. He and I were members of that Committee at that time, when it reported on national compensation. Therefore I am certainly familiar with the recommendations which it made. I will refer the specific suggestion about the use of economic incentives to the Minister for further consideration. I could add that  Mr Macphee  's Department has initiated a pilot promotional campaign. A consortium of consultants led by the industrial psychologists Chandler and Macleod has been commissioned to carry out the campaign, which began in August this year and will last approximately 12 months. That campaign aims at working out the most effective methods of selling safety so that awareness of the need for better safety and health at work is increased. I have a little detail on that campaign. Rather than answer this question at greater length than might be thought proper, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  that single page of information. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The campaign comprises three stages: 
Research-both field research and a search of literature. 
Development and preliminary testing, as a result of the research, of a strategy which could consist of different communications/messages to be aimed at various levels of industrial people- for example management, supervisors and employees may each require a different message. 
Testing and evaluation of the strategies and communications developed in stage 2 in selected geographical areas. 
The assistance of State Governments and safety organisations has been requested, and their response has been encouraging. The Consortium have completed Stage 1 and are now analysing results obtained chiefly from Victoria and New South Wales. 

 Mr Macphee 's Department is also involved in research on improving the physical working environment in Australian industry and issues publications for use in industry. There are also some specific programs and services designed for migrants. Audio visual programs designed to educate ethnic workers in job safety and health have been produced. The Department of Productivity also works with the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia and the Productivity Groups, and occupational safety programs are being implemented by these bodies. 
-With respect to the last part of the question, what I have given in the answer previously indicates the Commonwealth concern about this serious problem. I am advised by the Minister for Productivity that he places a high priority on reducing the incidence of occupational accidents and on improving the physical working environment. It is believed that there is great scope for work in this area and for improvement in standards of things such as ventilation, heating, lighting, sunlight penetration and design of work places. 
I have had reports which are in the terms mentioned by the honourable senator in his question. The initiative is an initiative of the State Government of Western Australia, which has, on an experimental basis, appointed Aboriginal justices of the peace at the two places mentioned by the honourable senator in his question. It has also extended by-law making powers to those two communities. This has been done expressly as an experiment. My understanding is that it has had some beneficial effect and that the State Government is now considering extending it to other similar communities which request it. 
In addition, I think the first two communities are to have added to the system some Aboriginal policemen who will, it is hoped, further aid the working of the system. I have not seen any detailed assessment of what is being done by the State Government, although of course it is a matter of great interest to me and to my Department. I know that the Aboriginal Legal Service of Western Australia is closely involved as adviser in the scheme, which however has been put together principally by a magistrate,  Mr Syddal.  As I understand it, he is leaving and it will be continuing under the supervision of another magistrate,  Dr Howard.  I think that experiments of this sort are most constructive and useful. At the same time, they need to be watched very carefully to ensure that the rights of individual Aboriginals are protected so that they have the normal rights which are afforded to people when they are taken before courts and so that they know what laws are being imposed in the Aboriginal communities. Subject to those sorts of qualifications, I think what is being done is most worth while and I hope it will succeed and will spread. 
That question, or statement, was really notable for the fact that it involved such selective quotations. There has been quite a lot of talk about Yarrabah over the last 24 hours in both the Senate and the House of Representatives and, if one looks at the material that has been quoted, it becomes quite clear that one can readily find the answer to the question that has been asked by  Senator Ryan.  The letter from  Mr Porter  from which she quoted is dated July- I forget which day but it does not matter- of this year and most honourable senators will recall that in September, which was a couple of months afterwards, a Press release was issued following discussions in Canberra between  Dr Edwards,  myself and all of the councillors of Yarrabah. So certainly there have been negotiations subsequent to the writing of the letter by  Mr Porter.  To assist the honourable senator further I suggest that, having read  Mr 
Porter's letter, she should also read my reply, quoted in the Senate yesterday and appearing in the same  Hansard,  in the course of which I expressed the wish- which it subsequently transpired was accurate- that talks would continue. The negotiations have related to the land tenure and management of the Yarrabah Reserve. Which Queensland Government Minister will go to Yarrabah in November is a matter for decision by that Government, not me. As far as the prospects of success are concerned, I can only say that I believe it is in the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Yarrabah, and elsewhere in Queensland, that agreement should be reached between the two governments. It has been my consistent aim and endeavour to achieve agreement between the two governments and I am proceeding on the basis that it is possible to attain. 
I cannot immediately recall whether I have had discussions with  Mr Porter  since that letter was written. I have certainly not had recent discussions with him. He is overseas. 
I have some information from the Minister for Transport on this matter. 
He has advised that he is aware that, of the many travellers who take advantage of the new advance purchase excursion fares, there will be some who in certain circumstances will be liable to forfeit payments. Of course, if one allows lower fares for very early bookings and subject to certain conditions, it is obvious that if those conditions are breached such forfeiture will occur. An example of that is provided by travellers who change their travel date within the 45-day prepayment period. 

 Mr Nixon is also aware of reports that some intending travellers have been unable to obtain reimbursement from their insurance company when, for one reason or another, they have been prevented from travelling. I understand that this situation arises most commonly when the insurance company considers that the traveller had a pre-existing illness. The Minister is concerned about the matter that has been raised by  Senator Young,  particularly as it affects people who plainly thought that they were covered by insurance. Although it is necessary, in order to achieve and maintain the new low fare levels, that certain conditions be imposed, the Department of Transport will review those conditions in the light of the operation of the fares over time. The review will include an examination of the relationships between insurance and fare conditions. That would cover the matter that has been raised by  Senator Young. 

 -Yesterday Senator Maunsell asked a question without notice concerning the grant by sporting bodies throughout Australia of exclusive television rights, and the matter was raised again in Question Time today by  Senator McAuliffe. Mr Staley  has provided me with further information, some of which parallels the answer I gave today. In view of the interest in the matter I would like to put the answer before the Senate. In response to the question yesterday I indicated that the Government was concerned that a large number of Australians were unable to view a direct telecast of yesterday's Melbourne Cup and in recent times a range of sporting events. 
It is true, as  Mr Staley  mentioned in answer to a similar question in the House of Representatives yesterday, that there are still too many Australians who are beyond the reach of any television signal or are solely dependent upon the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television signal.  Senator Maunsell  and other honourable senators on this side of the chamber know that it is only through satellite transmission that we will be able to overcome the gravest problems of people in remote and rural areas of Australia. 
It is also true that commercial television networks have in recent years become more conscious of the commercial advantage in securing exclusive television rights to major sporting events. This is a relatively recent development. However, it is obviously one which in the future is expected to pick up momentum. It is, therefore, a matter of concern, as I have already mentioned, that the immediate effect is that a number of Australians, particularly those in some rural or remoter communities, are denied access to these events. 
The Government is not convinced, however, that the problem is necessarily one of funds and it is a simplistic solution which has been put forward by  Senator Ryan  and others that the ABC be provided with limitless funds in an attempt to out-bid the commercial networks for the coverage of certain events. This in no way comes to the heart of the problem.  Mr Staley  has previously indicated that he is committed to the view that all parties to these arrangements should review their role in this general area of televised sporting coverage. It requires co-operation between the organisations which grant the rights, the commercial networks which secure the rights and, of course, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is this co-operative effort which will ensure the solutions which  Senator Maunsell  is seeking. 
I respond briefly to the comments made by  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Bishop  by saying that I will direct the attention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to the remarks they made in the Senate this evening and to the contents of the letter which was referred to by  Senator McLaren  and which he has since handed me. I understand from what he said that the Minister will have in fact seen this letter, as it was sent to a number of parliamentarians. I will, however, make sure that his attention is directed to it. I was interested in the concession to logic that was made by  Senator McLaren  in his remarks. He put his remarks on that basis, namely, that they were a concession to logic. He said that private enterprise could operate only if it were able to make a profit. I am heartened by the concessions to logic which are also contained in the letter which he has tendered to me. For example, it states: 
We are fully aware that the railways must be made viable. 
The people concerned addressed their petition on the basis that they wished to discuss methods of decreasing costs and increasing freight revenue. The letter also states: 
We do not oppose the reduction of train services. 
I pick out those points because these issues do frequently come before the Senate. They are often raised by Government and Opposition senators. I think those simple points have to be borne in mind. They underline the difficulty which is faced by the Australian National Railways and indeed by the governments concerned in dealing with these matters. As I said before, I will convey to  Mr Nixon  the suggestions which have been made and seek from him a response to the views which have been put this evening. 
At somewhat greater length  Senator Bonner  came to the defence of a member of my Department, a  Mr Kyle,  who had been talked about in the Queensland Parliament, I think, on 18 October.  Senator Bonner  made a number of remarks in defence of  Mr Kyle  who is known to me. I have met him on my visits to Queensland. He is known to me both as an employee in my Department and as the Queensland  President  of the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service which is financed by the Commonwealth. I would like to make two general comments before getting down to the matters which were raised in the Queensland Parliament against  Mr Kyle.  The first point is that it is always a matter of difficult judgment for any of us in Parliament as to when we should use the Parliament as a forum to discuss the affairs of an individual. It is a difficult judgment. 

 Senator Bonner in his remarks referred to the question of privilege. I can only make the general comment that I hope that all politicians exercise very careful judgment before they use this forum to express views about people who do not have the opportunity to reply directly within the forum. Allied to that first point I want to make the general comment that I welcome the fact that the  North-West Star  in Mount Isa, which reported at some length the attack on the public servants who were mentioned by  Mr Bertoni,  also printed on the same page and with an equally prominent headline a reply from  Mr Kyle.  I commend the newspaper for that. I think that in such circumstances it is important that an individual is given that sort of opportunity to defend his honour and integrity. 
The second general point that I want to make in responding to the comments made by  Senator Bonner  is that it is self-evident that I must rely on the briefing which I am able to obtain from my Department. In this case I have received from my Regional Director in Queensland,  Mr Don  O 'Rourke, information on the allegations which have been made. I think it is worth pointing out therefore, before I respond in detail to the comments made by  Senator Bonner,  that, according to the draft of the Queensland  Hansard  which I have seen,  Mr Bertoni  also made some remarks about  Mr Don  O 'Rourke. They are worth repeating here because it is on  Mr O  'Rourke 's information that I have to rely.  Mr Bertoni  said, according to this draft  Hansard: 
I have written to Don O'Rourke, the Director of DAA here in Brisbane. He has been very co-operative in this matter and I have no objections to him. I think that he is a tremendous person. 
Then  Mr Scott  apparently interjected. I think he is a member of the Australian Labor Party. He said: 
A very fair-minded man. 
Perhaps  Mr Scott  is not a member of the Labor Party. I just do not know him. He may well be a member of the Labor Party or the Opposition in Queensland.  Mr Bertoni  went on to say: 
Yes. From my dealings with him, I think that he is a tremendous person. 
I make that comment because that is  Mr Bertoni  's view and apparently the view of at least one other member of the Queensland Parliament of my Regional Director. I welcome that view because I know he is a loyal, devoted public servant who works extremely hard. I share the high opinion of him which has been expressed in the Queensland Parliament. 
As was indicated by  Senator Bonner,  it is a fact that  Mr Bertoni  originally made some allegations about the officers who were mentioned in the newspaper report and in the Parliament to the Acting Director of my Department in June of this year. The advice I have is that the allegations were thoroughly investigated and could not be substantiated and that on 8 August 1979 the Regional Director,  Mr O'Rourke,  advised  Mr Bertoni  by telephone that he could go no further regarding his oral allegations without a letter from him and facts supporting his complaints. Subsequent to that- on 15 August 1979-  Mr Bertoni  wrote to the Regional Director seeking an investigation into two specific allegations against  Mr Kyle.  The matters were investigated and on 17 September 1 979  Mr Bertoni  was written to and advised that neither complaint appeared sustainable but that  Mr O'Rourke  would be quite happy to discuss any such problems with him. Subsequently- at the beginning of October this year-  Mr Bertoni  called at the Regional Office of the Department and advised that he was not happy with the departmental investigation. In fact, therefore, the complaints were originally made to the Regional Director, they were examined, and  Mr Bertoni  was advised that the complaints could not be sustained on investigation. 
I turn now to the allegations which were made in Parliament. Firstly, some general criticisms were made of the Mount Isa area office of my Department. In particular, the allegation was made that the area officer,  Mr Omond,  was using his position as area officer to promote the Australian Labor Party cause. My advice is that  Mr Omond  is an executive member of the ALP at Mount Isa but that there is no evidence to support the claim that he has used his position in the manner alleged.  Mr Bertoni  referred in the Queensland Parliament to signed documents from people who claim that money is missing from the Department. Money is missing from funds that have been allocated to Aboriginal organisations. 
Three specific documents are referred to. Firstly, there is a reference to a letter to  Mr Bertoni  from a woman who it is claimed works for the Balyanna Community Advancement Cooperative Society Ltd. Extracts from this letter are to be found in the  Hansard,  but the particular document was not tabled in the Queensland Parliament and, as far as I know, no copy has been made available to my Department. 
Two specific allegations have been made: Firstly, with respect to a grant of $2,800 for intercommunity visits, Balyanna spent $448 but the balance remains unacquitted; secondly, that $974 was spent on a charter to Mornington Island together with further expenditure of $526. The suggestion is that this expenditure was unauthorised. An additional fact is that the project officer in my Department,  Mr Kyle,  who has been referred to, is the  President  of that organisation. 
There have been some difficulties in investigating this matter because the precise document has not been available. However, the following facts have been revealed in respect of the two allegations that I have mentioned: Firstly, that in 1976-77, $2,880-not $2,800, a very minor point- was allocated to Balyanna for inter-community visits. A condition of that grant was that the area officers prior approval be obtained for specific expenditure. Departmental records show that the first expenditure of this money was $425 in 1977-78. The area officer gave his approval for this expenditure for a community visit on 9 December 1977. The 1977-78 audited financial statement acquits this expenditure. The second allegation which relates to charters to Mornington Island does in fact concern Balyanna. This expenditure was part of the grant totalling $2,880 for inter-community visits. Apparently the author of the document suggests that it did not relate to Balyanna, but in fact it did. The expenditure of $974 on charters and $526 on other items relates to the intercommunity visit by the Mornington Island dance group to Mount Isa as part of Nadok- the National Aboriginal Day Celebrations- from 13  to 15 July 1978. The expenditure was approved by the area officer, and can be identified in the audited financial statement for 1978-79. The first document referred to therefore is wrong in its assertion that the rest of the money cannot be accounted for. The $2,880 grant has been acquitted by the Society. 

 Mr Bertoni states that the document dated 8 February 1979 has been sent to my Department in Canberra. Extracts from this document are referred to in  Hansard.  A response to this document was provided on 26 February 1979 by the Queensland office of my Department. So the original document was sent to my Department and a response was sent by the Regional Director in Queensland. I think the simplest thing is if I seek leave to have that response incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

75/789 
26 February, 1979 Mrs E. D. Ah Sam P.O.Box 170, CLONCURRY, QLD 4824. 
In addition, in the Queensland Parliament  Mr Bertoni  asserted that my departmental officers engaged in a publicity stunt over the recent Camooweal situation which received quite a lot of publicity. I think there was an allegation by the Queensland Minister that there were refugees from the Northern Territory at Camooweal. I must say that I was somewhat concerned about that allegation and took some personal interest in it. I sought to ensure that adequate provision would be made for the itinerants who habitually pass through Camooweal as part of their normal movement between Queensland and the Northern Territory. I am advised that Press coverage relating to that situation was organised by  Mr R.  Wing and the National Aboriginal Council member  Mr Tony  Assan who were concerned about the situation. But at no time did officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs institute or encourage any publicity. 
The question of  Mr Kyle  's working for my Department and also being involved in a number of Aboriginal organisations does raise the possibility of conflict of interest. The fact is, I think, that many Aboriginal employees of my Department are people who are also actively engaged in working with their communities on a voluntary basis. Whilst it is clear that they must be careful to distinguish their duties as officers of my Department and as members of voluntary organisations, particularly at the current stage of Aboriginal development where Aboriginals of ability who are concerned about their people need to be involved in a voluntary capacity as well as in their full time work, I do not think that we should be seeking to put a stop to that. 

 Mr Kyle is a member of the executive of a number of Aboriginal organisations. I have already mentioned perhaps the most important position. He is  president  of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Legal Service and  president  of the Balyanna Community Advancement Co-operative Society Ltd. He does not get any remuneration from these organisations. Certainly he has been advised on the importance of keeping his voluntary activities separate from his work activities and I think that no evidence has been put before me to show that he has allowed the two areas of activity to conflict. 
I would like to assure the Senate that all the allegations which have been raised over a period and which are now reflected in the speech made in the Queensland Parliament have been thoroughly investigated and, where appropriate, reinvestigated. None of the allegations made has been able to be substantiated by my Department.  Mr Bertoni  was made aware of that fact some time ago, as I indicated earlier in my remarks. I would not wish to underestimate the difficulties of some of my Department's officers in operating in areas where there is some conflict of policy between the Commonwealth and the State government. It puts those officers in a very difficult position and I think that in most cases they are fully aware of the difficulties involved and they conduct themselves with care to ensure that the line between carrying out their duties as officers of my Department, which includes implementing the policies of the Commonwealth Government with respect to Aboriginal affairs, and acting in a way which could be described as political with respect to the Queensland Government, is kept clearly drawn. It is a quite difficult area for them, I think, and if there are errors on any occasions, I think that is quite understandable. 
In making that remark I am in no way suggesting that in the present case that has occurred. But it has often occurred to me when I have been in Queensland and dealing with my officers that they must have quite a difficult row to hoe and it is perhaps to be understood that on occasions there are misunderstandings between them and those who are involved in the Queensland Government. But on this occasion I can only say that I regret that the attacks were made. It appears from the careful investigation which has been made through the highly regarded officer,  Mr O'Rourke,  that the allegations cannot be substantiated and therefore it is a great pity that the people involved have been put in the position where these public allegations have been made in the Queensland Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.8 a.m. (Thursday) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Greenvale Post Office is operated as a non-official post office, on behalf of Australia Post, by an employee of Queensland Nickel Pty Ltd. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) ( a ) The requirement that operators ring back the caller before connecting a trunk call was abandoned as a normal practice in Australia in the 1950s in favour of the 'service on demand' procedure- that is establishing the connection without the caller leaving the telephone. This no-delay system is standard practice in virtually all countries because of the greater customer convenience and significantly lower operating costs entailed. 
Normally, some 10 per cent of calls are necessarily reverted for one reason or another, e.g. where no free trunk line is immediately available or the called number is engaged or not answering and this serves as a continuing check on the correctness of calling numbers. Other calls are deliberately reverted at randomly chosen times. 

Details recorded on trunk dockets enable checks and investigations to be carried out to establish the correct calling number should queries concerning operator-connected calls be received. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The question of controls over cigarette advertising, including peripheral advertising given to cigarette manufacturers, has been taken up in the context of the Government's consideration of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on social welfare entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?' 
The Minister for Health as the Minister responsible for the carriage of the report, expects to announce the Government's response to the recommendations contained in the report shortly. 
Following the Government's decision, any matter to be dealt with under the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, will be considered at that time. 
Australian Wildlife in Foreign Zoos (Question No. 1946) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has decided in principle to proceed with the establishment of a domestic communications satellite system for Australia and, as I indicated when I announced that decision, further advice is being sought on the options available for the management and control of the system. For that reason, it is premature to speculate now on the effect on Telecom 's revenue and pricing policies of the introduction of a 'National Communications Satellite'. The effect, if any, will only be determined after final decisions have been taken on the detailed design of the satellite facilities and the structure for the management and control of the system. 
Fortunately Standing Orders prevent me from proffering legal opinions. The suggestion that a particular sporting event must be broadcast over the Australian Broadcasting Commission network as it is a matter of national interest raises my eyebrows a little. When I think of the use of the words national interest' in an Act such as the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act I believe that we are talking about something of a rather different nature and quality from the point raised by the honourable senator. I make those comments not because I wish in any sense to suggest that there is not the widespread concern of the sort which has been raised by the honourable senator in his question and by other honourable senators in questions on the same subject. It seems to me to be stretching the point a little. I will refer the particular question with respect to section 64 to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  to allow him to give the matter raised by the honourable senator careful consideration and a reply in due course. 
I am able to confirm that the latest issue of the Perth telephone directory omits the information that has been referred to by the honourable senator. I understand from  Mr Staley  that he is making inquiries into the reason for that omission and will provide  Senator Rocher  with that information as soon as it is available to him. 
Yesterday  Senator Lewis  asked me a question without notice concerning an agreement between Telecom and the unions covering its employees to offset jobs displaced by automation. I undertook to refer the question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications for his consideration and reply. I have a reply, and I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has advised that a document entitled 'Consideration of Introduction of Technological Change' has been under consideration by the Telecom Consultative Council for more than two years. The purpose of the document is to lay down principles and procedures which are to be followed relating to consultation with staff associations when Telecom proposes to introduce new technology. It concentrates on the sort of information to be provided for staff associations to enable them to understand the reasons for introducing proposed new technology, the benefits to be derived by subscribers and the possible impact on staff of Telecom Australia. The document provides for information to be available at certain stages during the considerations of new technology leading up to an actual decision for its introduction. The decision to introduce new tei.nology remains with Telecom. 
Most of the unions have accepted the document. It is expected that the decisions by two unions which have not advised their acceptance will be known before the end of 1979. Once the position of all unions is dear, final consideration will then be given to the document by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
I can assure the honourable  Senator that  the Government will not condone any sweetheart deals and as I have explained, this is not the purpose of the agreement being considered. 
-On 6 November  Senator MacGibbon  asked what action Qantas would be taking to mark the 60th anniversary of the first aerial passage between Europe and Australia on 12 November 1919. I assured the honourable senator that I would urgently seek some information from the Minister for Transport. I am now able to give honourable senators information on what is intended. I seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Qantas is indeed very conscious of the significance of this occasion, and of the pioneering efforts of  Sir Ross  and  Sir Keith  Smith, and their two crew members, Wally Shiers and James Bennett. This is particularly significant for Qantas, as the Kangaroo Route represents some 60 per cent of the airline 's business. I am happy to say that Qantas will indeed be marking the occasion. 
I am advised that the airline is printing special commemorative certificates which will be given to all passengers travelling on flight between Australia and the United Kingdom on November 12. These certificates will contain information relevant to the occasion, together with a commemorative photograph of the aircraft used on the flight in 1919, a converted Vickers Vimy bomber. Additionally, explanatory announcements will be made by the crew to all passengers aboard these aircraft, and, all passengers will be offered complementary drinks. 
I believe all honourable senators will agree that Qantas should be congratualted on these efforts to mark this occasion. I understand there are three flights involved on 12 November, which means that around one thousand passengers will be informed of the significance of the day on which they are travelling. 
I might further point out to Honourable Senators, that the  Chairman  of Qantas,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, paid tribute to these aviation pioneers recently, when he delivered the 1 1th  Sir Ross  and  Sir Keith  Smith Memorial Lecture, to the Royal Aeronautical Society, in Adelaide last month. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speeches incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speeches read as follows: 

Defence Amendment Bill 1979 
The Bill amends the Defence Act 1903 to give the power to make standing appointments of officers to act as Chief of Defence Force Staff or a Service Chief of Staff during any absence of the holder of the relevant office. Legal advice is that such an amendment is necessary for this purpose. 
Standing appointments are necessary to ensure that officers are available to act in any unexpected absence of the Chief of Defence Force Staff or a Chief of Staff. 
The Bill will also expedite the payment to members of the Defence Force of approved increases in salaries and allowances and other financial benefits. 
At present, salaries and allowances of members of the Defence Force are required to be prescribed in regulations made under the Defence Act 1903, the Naval Defence Act 1910 and the Air Force Act 1 923. 
The Defence Force is the only area of Commonwealth employment where all financial benefits are required to be prescribed in regulations. There are over 480 regulations. 
This requirement for the making of regulations has been and, indeed, continues to be, a source of considerable delay in the payment of these benefits. 
This delay gives rise to problems. 
No one should have to wait an inordinate length of time to have new or revised benefits paid. This is especially aggravating to the Defence Force, where frequent movement of members and their families is a feature of service life and there is a range of benefits provided in recompense. Adjustments to these benefits should be able to be paid quickly. 
Another problem is that substantial delays result in administrative inefficiency because of the need to maintain and keep up-to-date records of payments that cannot be made until the regulations are amended. Frequently this takes many months. 
A consequence of these problems is that the periods of retrospectivity which are inevitably involved attract criticism by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
Attempts have, of course, been made to reduce these delays. 
Special arrangements have been made with the Attorney-General's Department for Statutory Rules applying wage indexation increases to be drafted without delay. However, changes to the wide range of other financial benefits have to compete with the drafting needs of other departments. 
Another area of reform has been to replace separate regulations for each service with regulations having tri-service application. However, such consolidations are necessarily a slow process because of the need to continue with daytoday amendments and do not solve the problem of the extensive detail that has to be prescribed. 
The Bill proposes to resolve these problems by empowering the Minister for Defence to make formal determinations of these financial benefits for members of the Defence Force. The Bill provides for the making of determinations to be notified in the  Gazette  and for the determinations to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament where they will be subject to disallowance, as is the present case with regulations. 
I wish to make one matter clear. Nothing in the Bill is designed to alter in any way the policies governing the fixation of Defence Force pay and other financial benefits or the machinery by which fixation takes place. 
The making of a determination will usually require the repeal of the corresponding regulation. This presents procedural difficulties that would, until all the regulations were replaced, continue the very delays that the proposed scheme is intended to eliminate. 
Having regard to this problem and to the size of the task of replacing so many regulations, the Bill provides for an interim period during which the transition from regulations to determinations is to take place. The proposal is that the Minister for Defence, during the interim period only, will be authorised to amend or repeal such regulations by interim determinations. These determinations will also be subject to the procedure for notification, tabling and disallowance. 
The Bill also makes formal drafting amendments to the Defence Act. 
The Naval Defence Amendment Bill 1979 and the Air Force Amendment Bill 1979, which I will also introduce, will make amendments to the Naval Defence Act 1910 and the Air Force Act 1923, respectively, which apart from some formal drafting amendments, are purely consequential. 
It is my belief that the revised procedures provided for in this Bill will not only speed up the payment to members of the Defence Force of changes in rates of, and other improvements to, financial benefits, but will also enhance the revision and consolidation of the existing law on this matter, a task which has hitherto been hampered by the regulation-making process. 
I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Naval Defence Amendment Bill 1979 
As mentioned in the second reading speech on the Defence Amendment Bill 1979, the purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Naval Defence Act 1910, which are consequential on those proposed to be made to the Defence Act 1903 by the Defence Amendment Bill. 
I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Air Force Amendment Bill 1979 
As mentioned in the second reading speech on the Defence Amendment Bill 1979, the purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Air Force Act 1923, which are consequential on those proposed to be made to the Defence Act 1 903 by the Defence Amendment Bill. 
I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill  (No.  2) 1979 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to rationalise in a beneficial way the provisions of the DFRB and DFRDB Acts relating to class 'C invalidity retirees from the Defence Force. 
Both Acts incorporate a three-tiered invalidity structure broadly reflecting the extent to which a retiree is handicapped by his retiring disabilities in gaining and maintaining civil employment. 
Invalidity classification on retirement and subsequent reclassification procedures are based on an assessed percentage of incapacity in relation to civil employment. An assessment of sixty per cent or more attracts a class 'A' pension; thirty to fifty-nine per cent a class 'B' pension; and less than thirty per cent a class 'C benefit which depending on the member's length of service may comprise either a lump sum payment or a pension. 
As the DFRDB Act stands at present a class A' or 'B' pensioner reclassified 'C who loses his pension status is ineligible for further reclassification even though a subsequent reduction in his capacity for civil employment may occur through deterioration in his retiring disabilities. 
Clause 10 of the Bill seeks to rectify this anomaly by opening the way for further reclassification where appropriate. A minor amendment to the DFRB Act, effected by clause  4,  makes it clear that similar arrangements are to apply in respect to comparable DFRB invalidity retirees. 
Invalidity retirees with twenty or more years effective service who are initially classified 'C' on retirement receive a pension in lieu of the normal lump sum benefit. In essence they receive a pension for their long service rather than disablement which, because it attracts only a 'C classification, is invariably of a minor nature. 
The view has long been held that as they receive their pensions calculated on a length of service basis they should be permitted access to the commutation provisions in the same way as normal age retirement pensioners. 
Clause 9 of the Bill provides that access; but for future initial class 'C invalidity pensioners only. In practical terms they are to be treated as normal age retirement pensioners for commutation and various other purposes specified in the legislation, including the calculation of residual pension, reversionary benefits and annual pension increases. Obviously enough, there can be no question of any subsequent invalidity reclassification in their case. 
I should explain that there are very sound practical reasons for not extending the commutation option to existing initially classified class C pensioners. They devolve from the effects of annual pension adjustments. Retrospective commutation opportunity must carry with it retrospective decrease in pension, and the effects would be most severe on those who chose not to commute. Only part of their pensions would be increased in the future. 
In summary, the Bill reflects initiatives favoured by members of the defence force which are consistent with the basic benefits philosophy of the DFRDB Scheme. The amendments proposed do not, in any way, take away or reduce the rights of existing invalidity pensioners. 
I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grimes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
I remind honourable senators that when I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee). 

 The speech read as follows- 

Since the creation of a portfolio specifically directed to improving Australian productivity, the present Government has viewed the role of industrial property in this country as being essentially a mechanism for assisting Australian industrial development and, as such, included it in that portfolio. As the Minister responsible, I have previously introduced into the House of Representatives a number of Bills for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of various aspects of industrial property legislation in assisting the development and performance of Australian industry. The present Bill represents a major step in the continuation of that process and I believe its introduction constitutes one of the most significant developments in the history of the Australian patent system. 
Honourable senators may remember that Cabinet gave its approval earlier this year for Australian participation in the Patent Cooperation Treaty following the commencement of the operation of that Treaty on the first of June 1978. The introduction of the present Bill is intended to give effect to that decision by amending the Patents Act to bring Australian patent law into conformity with the provisions of the Treaty in order to permit accession to the Treaty by Australia later this year. 
The amendment of the Patents Act necessary to provide the required conformity with the Patent Co-operation Treaty can be largely achieved by recognising patent applications lodged in accordance with the Treaty and seeking protection in Australia as applications under the Patents Act. Essentially, the Bill provides such amendment and its immediate result is therefore to introduce a further, optional procedure for applicants in lodging either an application for a standard patent or an application for a petty patent under the Patents Act. However, by permitting Australian accession to the Patent Co-operation Treaty, the consequence of the Bill will be a major modification of operation of the Australian patent system by introducing into that system the various operations provided under the Treaty. The Bill therefore has a significance extending far beyond the actual terms of its provisions and the purpose behind its introduction is to obtain for Australian inventors and industry the collective benefits available from the participation of the various countries party to the Treaty. 
The question of Australian accession to the Treaty has been widely canvassed amongst interested parties. Without exception, Australian industry has appreciated the benefits to be obtained from participation in the Treaty and expressed unqualified support for Australian accession. Within some other quarters, however, individual elements have viewed the Patent Cooperation Treaty as an unwelcome development and the prospect of Australian accession as a misconceived political intrusion into the functioning of the patent system. Personally, I believe such opposition as has arisen has been motivated more by a fearfulness in coping with change rather than an objective assessment of the consequences of the changes involved. Nevertheless, the effects of the Patent Co-operation Treaty on the Australian patent system are potentially so important that a clear understanding of operation of the Treaty is required. Accordingly, in order to enable the significance of this Bill to be properly appreciated, it is appropriate, I think, to summarise briefly the background and operation of the Treaty. 
Essentially the Patent Co-operation Treaty -or to introduce its more convenient abbreviation, the PCT- represents the first internationally accepted mechanism for rationalising the essential operations involved in the grant of patents by individual countries and having an acceptable degree of validity. That rationalisation is achieved through the collective adoption by the member countries of the procedures prescribed in the Treaty and its associated regulations. At the commencement of its operation, 1 8 countries were party to the Treaty. In the brief interval since then, a further six countries have acceded and there are now 24 participating countries. The participants include major industrialised countries, such as the United States of America, the countries constituting the European Economic Community, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan; middle order countries of the kind to which Australia belongs, such as Sweden and Austria; major developing countries such as Brazil; and underdeveloped countries, such as Cameroon, Congo and Madagascar. Like Australia, a number of countries, including Canada, Spain and the Republic of Korea are either amending or considering amending their legislation for the purpose of acceding to the Treaty. Accordingly, notwithstanding the problems inherent in establishing any new co-operative enterprise, the degree of acceptance which the Treaty has already achieved virtually assures its role as the major vehicle for international co-operation in the processing of patents, as well as being a dominant factor in determining the course of future development of national patent systems throughout the world, including the Australian patent system. 
Accession has acquired a special significance for Australia. At their meeting in Geneva earlier this year, the member countries approved the appointment of the Australian Patent Office as one of the major functional bodies created by the Treaty. In that role, the Australian Patent Office will join the European Patent Office, and the Patent Offices of the United States, USSR, Japan, Sweden and Austria in providing other member countries with the technical services established by the Treaty. Resulting from that decision, the specialised facilities and expertise developed by the Patent Office under the Treaty will also be available for utilisation by all Australian inventors as well as for the benefit of Australian industry. Moreover, in offering those facilities to applicants from other member countries- an offer which has, at least initially, been confined to developing countries- this country will be provided with a new facility for materially assisting such countries in introducing and operating effective patent systems with the resultant consequential benefits, not only for their own national development but also for Australian industry in exploiting its technology in those countries within the framework of an effective mechanism of protection. 
The rationalisation of the operations of the patent systems of member countries which is achieved by the PCT affects four major areas involving operations which are basic to the provision of effective protection in any country in which a patent is sought. So far as the first area is concerned, the grant of a patent in any particular country is essentially dependent upon the sub.mision of a report for such grant. To date, the procedural operations of national patent systems have been independent to the extent that every country has required a separate application for the grant of protection in that country. 
The PCT rationalises that procedure, firstly, by requiring each member country to adopt a uniform procedure and criteria in recognising applications invoking the Treaty and, secondly, by integrating the separate applications for each country in which protection is sought into a single application which is collectively effective as an individual application in every such country. As the international application under the PCT may be lodged in the patent office of the country in which he resides, the applicant is relieved of the necessity of communicating with overseas patent offices and complying with different and unfamiliar procedures before his application for protection is recognised as such. The benefits for Australian applicants desiring foreign patent protection are self-evident. 
In the second phase, the PCT recognises the universal nature of the requirement that the validity of a patent is dependent upon whether the patented invention is new. And, since it is generally accepted that the grant of invalid patents significantly diminishes the effectiveness of a patent system, most countries providing such protection require each application to be subject to a prior determination as to whether the invention is new before a patent is granted. That determination is invariably based on a more, or less, extensive investigation of existing technical knowledge by the national Patent Office and an assessment of the patentability of the invention in the light of that knowledge. 
In practice, the information determining the newness of an invention as regards its patentability in a particular country as well as the criteria upon which patentability is assessed, are essentially the same for every country. Accordingly, where protection is sought for an invention in a number of countries, the patent office of each country concerned effectively duplicates the same investigations and assessments in determining whether the invention is sufficiently new to be patentable in that country. The PCT eliminates such duplication by appointing a limited number of patent offices to undertake the investigation of prior technical disclosures for the purpose of determining the newness of the inventions in applications lodged under the Treaty and, if requested by the applicant, to provide an assessment of the patentability of the invention in the light of those investigations. The results of those investigations and assessments are supplied to all the member countries in which the applicant wishes to obtain protection. 
Under the Treaty to date, six patent offices, designated as international searching authorities, have been appointed to undertake the investigation of technical disclosures relevant to determining the newness of an invention. A similar number of offices, designated as international preliminary examining authorities, have been appointed for assessing the patentability of an invention on the basis of the result of such investigation. Following accession, the Australian Patent Office will constitute both a Searching and an Examining Authority and authorised to perform the functions of those Authorities both for Australian applicants under the Treaty as well as applicants from developing countries. With the transfer of a major part of the operations of patent offices to searching authorities and preliminary examining authorities, the PCT is able to exploit a further rationalisation of the procedures involved in the prosecution of patent applications arising from the cost reduction achieved by eliminating the previous duplication of the operations transferred to those authorities. 
The Treaty conveys benefits of that rationalisation to applicants by requiring the patent offices to the countries in which protection is sought to defer examination of applications lodged under the Treaty and by providing each applicant with the results of the investigation and assessment of the relevant searching and examining authorities prior to the commencement of examination. By virtue of that provision, applicants may avoid incurring the costs of prosecuting applications for which valid protection cannot be obtained. This procedure will not only benefit applicants, including Australian applicants, seeking protection through the medium of the PCT, it will also relieve patent offices, including the Australian Patent Office, of much of the load involved in unnecessarily examining applications which are inherently unpatentable. 
Finally, the PCT rationalises the operations associated with the publication and dissemination of the technical details of the inventions which are sought to be protected through the Treaty. One of the basic features of a patent system is the disclosure of the technical details of patented inventions to the public, the purpose being, partly, to avoid infringement of patent monopolies but, primarily, to provide national industry with sufficient information to enable inventions to be freely exploited on expiry of the patent. Accordingly, where protection of an invention is sought in a number of countries, the patent office of each of those countries incurs the costs in producing for the benefit of the public the documents disclosing the technical details of that invention. The PCT eliminates the costs arising from that duplication by making a single authority responsible for the publishing and printing of applications lodged under the Treaty and for distributing the resultant documents to all member countries. To bring home the potential significance of this aspect of the Treaty, I need only point to the fact that approximately one million new patent documents are currently generated each year throughout the world. Those documents, however, involve something less than 400,000 different inventions. On the basis of those figures there is a potentially enormous cost-benefit to be obtained through utilisation of the PCT. When it is realised that approximately 90 per cent of Australian patent specifications involve inventions which are also published overseas, it is obvious that the Australian patent system is potentially a major beneficiary from this aspect of the PCT. 
I hope that that necessarily brief and simplified explanation of the PCT will enable the significance of the present Bill to be fully appreciated. I apologise for taking the time of the Senate on this explanation; unfortunately, the technicalities of the Treaty are such that without some explanation the terms of the Treaty which are annexed to the Bill convey about as much information to an ordinary reader as a Chinese laundry ticket. However, even with the simplified explanation I have given, it should be evident that the PCT is essentially a mechanism for rationalising procedural features of the patent systems of member countries through mutual cooperation. As such, it involves no change to the philosophy on which those systems are based. In that respect, the Treaty merely implements longestablished principles governing international co-operation in industrial property. In so doing, however, one of its major results will be to increase the impact of those principles on the patent systems of member countries and part of the opposition to Australian accession derives from the presumed adverse nature of that impact on Australian industry. 
The proponents of that view acknowledge the benefits of the Treaty in assisting Australian inventors to obtain increased protection in other countries. Conversely, however, they claim that the corresponding assistance given to overseas inventors will increase the number of Australian patents granted to overseas patentees. As a result of those patents, many overseas inventions previously published but not patented in Australia and which can therefore be freely utilised by Australian industry will no longer be accessible to industry. That objection raises the direct question of the effect of foreign participation on the Australian patent system. Just how significant this question is may be gauged from the fact that approximately 90 per cent of all Australian patents granted each year are granted to overseas patentees. However, since the argument also implies that patents themselves disadvantage Australian industry, it raises the much more basic issue of the value of the Australian patent system as a mechanism for assisting national development. These questions are not only too important to ignore, their answers bear directly on the present Bill since, by enabling Australia to accede to the PCT, one of the major purposes of the present Bill is to assist increased utilisation of the Australian patent system. 
In answering these questions, it is important to note that by facilitating foreign participation in national patent systems, such as that of Australia, the PCT is designed to achieve in practice an objective that was recognised as inherently beneficial in principle almost one hundred years ago when the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property was introduced. The essential feature of that convention was, and still is, the commitment by each member country, to grant to the nationals of every other member country, the same treatment and protection under its national industrial property laws as it provides to its own nationals. So far as patents are concerned, that commitment reflects the acknowledgement by the member countries of the Convention that the effectiveness of the patent system of any country is primarily dependent upon the extent to which the system is utilised by inventors. Moreover, it also reflects the further recognition that the effectiveness of a patent system is in no way dependent upon the territorial origin of an invention or the nationality of a patentee and that those factors are essentially irrelevant to the operation of a patent system. The importance of the extent of utilisation in contributing to the effective operation of their patent systems is appreciated by most countries and is indicated by the fact that 88 countries are currently party to the Paris convention. Australia has been a member since 1 907 and the extent of the contribution made by overseas inventors to the effectiveness of the Australian patent system is evident from the fact that over 90 per cent of Australian patents granted annually are granted to patentees domiciled outside Australia. Not unexpectedly, Australia is not alone in this regard and, in practice, foreign participation is a significant and generally the dominant factor in determining the extent of utilisation of almost every national patent system. 
The objection to increased participation by overseas applicants as diminishing the accessibility of foreign inventions to Australian industry is therefore, in principle, not an objection to the PCT, but a criticism of the effectiveness of the Australian patent system as a vehicle for assisting exploitation of inventions by Australian industry. In assessing the validity of such criticism, it should be understood that the essential justification for the grant of patents has always been considered to lie, primarily, in the assistance that the resultant exclusive monopolies provide for the commercial introduction and exploitation of new technology achieved, firstly, by the initial availability of a competition-free market to the owners of the technology and, secondly, by providing industry with unrestricted access to that technology on expiry of the monopoly through the publication of sufficient practical details by the Patent Office to permit utilisation of the technology. In my view, the motivation provided by the economic rewards obtainable from a commercial monopoly makes the patent system, in principle at least, the most effective incentive devised to date for the exploitation of new technology by industry. Naturally, the machinery of the patent system requires to be geared to the current needs of industry, for example, by providing protection consistent with the scope of modern technology or making available protection of a kind which can be economically exploited by industry. Such needs tend to change with time and it was the appreciation of such changing needs that formed the basis for my recent introduction of petty patents into the Australian patent system as an optional form of protection. 
Ultimately, however, the measure of the effectiveness of a patent system is the extent to which new technology is adopted by industry. In this regard, it is a commonly overlooked feature of the patent system that the failure of patentees to work their inventions in Australia to a sufficient extent to satisfy the reasonable needs of the Australian public is an abuse of patent monopolies and, as such, a justification for depriving such patentees of their exclusive right to a monopoly or, in extreme cases, of their right to any monopoly whatsoever. Unfortunately, however, the question of whether Australian patents, particularly foreign-owned patents, are adequately exploited, or whether the provisions for preventing abuse of patent monopolies by insufficient working are satisfactory, are questions on which very little information is available. It is for the purpose of obtaining advice on important practical considerations such as these that I established the Industrial Property Advisory Committee and I would take this opportunity to indicate here that a review of the Australian patent system, oriented towards improving its practical effectiveness rather than the mere structure of its legislative framework, is a matter which I will be referring to the Committee for its early consideration. An approach of that kind represents a major departure from the basis of previous revisions and will inject a new dimension into such a review. 
When it is appreciated that the role of the patent system is to assist national development, the real significance of the PCT to Australian industry becomes evident. Moreover, the fulfilment of that role is not limited to assisting the exploitation of new technology; the incentive provided by the potential rewards from such exploitation contributes to the generation of new technology by encouraging the creation of indigenous invention as well as the importation of overseas inventions. The patent system is thus pre-eminently an effective and dynamic mechanism for technology transfer in the full meaning of that much-abused term. 
Unfortunately, the limited sense of values of some of the spokesmen opposing Australian participation in the PCT and the involvement of the Patent Office in its operations, is reflected in their evaluation of the Australian patent system on the basis of the concept of patents, individually, as social contracts rather than on the basis of the effect of patents, collectively, as a mechanism for promoting technological change. To treat the patent system as a mere aggregation of individual private rights is to ignore its capability for contributing to national economic development. The value of a patent system in assisting national development is well understood by most developing countries. The participation of a number of such countries in the PCT is based on their recognition of the value of the PCT as a means for introducing and operating an effective patent system where indigenous facilities and expertise to operate independent patent systems are lacking. 
The appointment of the Australian Patent Office as a Searching and Examining Authority under the PCT creates a unique opportunity to assist developing countries, in particular English speaking countries, by providing the resources and expertise necessary for the adoption of an effective patent system. Such assistance has a particular significance for this country in view of its potential importance in encouraging regional co-operation and development. The capacity for rapid technological development in the Asian region has already been demonstrated by countries such as Japan, Taiwan and Korea. The SouthEast Asian countries are clearly on the threshold of similar development and in the embryonic stage of introducing patent systems. The PCT now provides these countries with a mechanism for adopting effective patent systems as well as offering Australia the opportunity for regional co-operation in the operation of those systems. 
I think that the impact of the PCT on this country and the benefits of participation need no further elaboration. The Treaty has been described by overseas authorities as the most significant development in patent co-operation this century and there is no doubt that it is destined to play a decisive role in the future operation and development of national patent systems. At this early date, the Treaty provides only an optional procedure and its immediate impact will necessarily be restricted by the extent of its usage by applicants and the number of participating countries. However, with our commitment to its aims and our opportunity for benefiting from its operations, it is at this stage that this country should contribute to the implementation of the Treaty. This Bill constitutes the first step in that process. Accordingly, I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mcintosh)  adjourned. 
in reply- I have noted the Opposition's objections to the proposal that Government Business take precedence of General Business at 8 p.m. on Thursdays for the remainder of this session. The objections put forward are objections that we have heard before in this chamber. 
-As the acting leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Grimes,  says to me that, we have heard the same arguments from both sides, I would like to draw the Senate's attention to the procedures which were followed during the period of the previous Labor Government. I do so, not to cast aspersions on that Government, but merely to indicate that the practice has been followed with some consistency in this chamber over a considerable period. We find that on the last three General Business days of its first sittings in 1973-24 May, 3 1 May and 7 June- General Business was dispensed with. The Senate rose on 8 June. In the Budget sittings of Parliament the motion was negatived. The Government tried it as early as 20 September on that occasion. It did away with General Business on 8 November, 15 November, 29 November and 6 December. The Senate rose on 13 December. In the session from February to April in 1974 the Government did away with it on only one day. From July to November 1974 we find that this occurred on 1 8 July, 25 July, 1 August, 1 5 August, 3 October, 24 October and on 13 November for the remainder of the period of sittings, which was four Thursdays. The Senate rose on 12 December at the end of that year. On 14 May 1 975 the motion was put for the remainder of the period of sittings, which covered five 
Thursdays. So the motion was moved during every sessional period under Labor. 
The simple fact of the matter and the simple point which I am making is that we have yet again a series of crocodile tears. This procedure has occurred in the Senate regularly over many years. It is a simple concession to the fact that Government Business must be concluded before the Parliament rises.  Mr President,  I commend this motion to the Senate. I regret that you have been subjected to yet another bout of crocodile tears. I trust that we will get on with the business of the Senate. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Senator Chaney's)  be agreed to. 
On behalf of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  and for the information of honourable senators, I present a report entitled 'Australian Students and Their Schools'. 
On behalf of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  and pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967,I present the report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  and pursuant to section 14 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936, section 140 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 and the corresponding provisions of the assessment Acts relating to sales tax, payroll tax, estate duty and gift duty, I present the 58th report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated 1 November 1979.I present also taxation statistics for 1977-78 dated 1 November 1 979, supplement to the .  5 7th report of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
On behalf of the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  and pursuant to section 33 (2) of the Australian National University Act 1946, I present the annual report of the Australian National University 1978. 
Pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918I present a copy of the report of the distribution commissioners for Western Australia, together with the maps referred to therein and a copy of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the distribution commissioners pursuant to sections 1 8a and 2 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
In accordance with the procedure outlined to this chamber on 3 April 1979,I present also for the information of honourable senators a paper prepared by the Australian Electoral Office which reconstructs the results of the 1974, 1975 and 1 977 House of Representatives elections in terms of the proposals contained in the report of the distribution commissioners for Western Australia which I have just tabled. 

 Senator WALSH (Western Australia) by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I am sure that my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the sort of figures which have been put forward in the question from  Senator Messner.  The importance of small business in terms of employment is something which, I think, has been readily and frequently acknowledged by the Government. In Australia small business still employs a large proportion of the work force, as would be known to  Senator Messner.  For that reason that area of industry is extremely important to us. 1 will refer the particular suggestion from  Senator Messner,  that some assistance should be given in the area of finance, to the Minister for his consideration and for a reply to  Senator Messner. 
-The honourable senator has asked a series of questions. Yes, I believe that  Mr Porter  is returning to Australia in the current week. I certainly would not approve the sacking of the Yarrabah Council which, it seems to me, has shown remarkable steadfastness and patience in dealing with both the Commonwealth and Queensland governments. It certainly has my admiration for that. I trust that the information that the honourable senator has put before the Senate as to the existence of a petition proves to be inaccurate. I have not been able to confirm officially that it exists. I have not had any direct contact with the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement since the honourable senator made the speech and have not sought the opinion of the Attorney-General with respect to the copying of documents. 
I read very carefully what  Senator Keeffe  said and I listened to him as he spoke. It is not clear how the material that is described as confidential got into the hands of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement. One explanation contained in what  Senator Keeffe  put before the Senate is that a councillor,  Mr Formile,  provided one of the telegrams to the departmental manager. I do not know whether the Yarrabah Council chose to make copies of those telegrams available to the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement or not. I have had no complaints from the recipients of the messages as to whether they were treated by them in a confidential manner and at this time I do not believe that I have anything on which to go to the Attorney-General. 
I am a little puzzled by the question. I heard the program referred to by  Senator Walters  in her question and I did not detect the irritation that she has described. I thought that the interview was quite low key. I would not have thought that it would have caused excitement in Tehran, the United States of America or, indeed, here in Australia. I continually answer questions stressing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. At the same time I would stress, in answer to this question, that I think in general the Commission shows a high degree of responsibility. I think that it would be concerned not to do anything which would endanger life or cause difficulties. As I say, I am a little puzzled by the question. I understand that the point raised by the honourable senator may be an important one because what is happening in Tehran is obviously a matter of great sensitivity and significance. I will examine the question carefully and if I think any representation to the ABC is warranted, I will refer it to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
I accept that additional information and, as I said, I will examine the question. 
-I am aware that the National Aboriginal Conference put out a Press release yesterday which relates in the main to something called 'Makarrata'. The Press release goes on to say that that is an Aboriginal word for agreement. It signifies the end of a dispute between communities and between a community and an offender, and the resumption of normal relations. I do not think that the statement signifies a change in the National Aboriginal Conference 's approach so much as a quite welcome change in terminology. The Press release arises out of the views which have been expressed around Australia that there should be a treaty of commitment. I think that the expression 'treaty' has caused some alarm in some breasts on the basis that it suggests that we do not have a single Australian nation and that there is something potentially sinister in the idea. What the National Aboriginal Conference has come up with is its own Aboriginal word for an agreement, and the Press release indicates that the national Aboriginal Conference proposes to consult Aboriginal communities to see what might go in an agreement, and to consult the Government. I certainly welcome that development. 
The Press release is also in the context of the Government's proposal to introduce a development commission. The same Press release refers to the NAC's willingness to collaborate with the Government in working on the Bill which is to be introduced in the current session- I hope in the next week or so. I think the approach which is evident in the Press release is very welcome. It indicates that the National Aboriginal Conference is anxious to have the views of Aboriginals around Australia and to work with the Commonwealth Government to reach an agreed position as to their situation in Australia. I welcome that development and I assure the Senate that the Government, in its turn, intends to work closely with the National Aboriginal Conference. 
-Certainly I would like to do that. I think most of the discussion to date has been fostered by non-Aboriginal Australians who are anxious to advance the interests of Aboriginals. They have put forward a series of names. The original advertisement that most honourable senators would have seen referred to a treaty, an act of commitment or a deed of settlement. Several expressions were used. If the Aboriginal people choose an Aboriginal word which they believe meets the situation, I think all honourable senators would welcome the Aboriginal choice and would be very happy to use it. As I indicated in my main answer, I think it gets over one of the worries abroad about the original proposal, namely, that there was something antiAustralian about it. I think the NAC has made it clear that, as Australians, they are anxious to achieve a better situation for the Aboriginal people and they are prepared to work to seek agreement with the Commonwealth Government on how that can be done. 
I have to admit that I was not aware that the Queensland Air Museum faced eviction in the circumstances indicated by the honourable senator although, of course, I was aware that work was to be done at Brisbane Airport. I will ask the Minister for Administrative Services to consider the request made by  Senator McAuIiffe  and to let the honourable senator have a reply. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The term 'near miss' is not amenable to precise definition. Occurrences of the son the honourable senator has in mind would be embraced in the air safety incident reporting system conducted by my Department. Apart from the legal requirement to report incidents, pilots and other operational personnel are encouraged to submit incident reports concerning any circumstances which the originator believes to be undesirable or hazardous, including those in which an infringement of the prescribed separation standards has been reported to have occurred. For the purposes of monitoring safety, no differentiation is made between those in which aircraft come into close proximity and those in which the separation reduction is relatively minor. Examination of incident records for the twelve months ending 30 June 1979 discloses no significant upward trend in recent months. The number of reported separation breakdowns per month averaged15 over that period, with individual monthly figures varying between 10 and 19. Notwithstanding the lack of evidence to support any claim that there has been 'an increase in aircraft near misses in recent months', it might be noted that the Government has been continuously concerned to ensure that sufficient funds are always available to maintain the level of services essential to air safety. 
The proposed transfer to Canberra of the Airworthiness and Air Safety Investigation Branches of the Central Office of the Department is part of the proposal to consolidate, in Canberra, the major units of the Central Office of the Department, many of which are still located in Melbourne. I do not believe that the work of the Branches would be hindered as a result of such a transfer. Contact with the industry is not confined to those parts of it that are located in Melbourne and there would be significant advantages in consolidation of the technical policy areas of the Department's Central Office in Canberra, together with its economic policy and investment planning units already there. The number of staff who may resign cannot be assessed at this time. 
I am not aware of concern expressed by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots about a supposed lack of essential safety services at certain major non-metropolitan airports, but if the honourable senator provides details of any such concern I shall have the matter examined. 
It is my intention that the excellent air safety record of Australia is not jeopardised and the situation continues to be closely watched to ensure that necessary action is taken as soon as any needs in the interests  of safety  become apparent. 
Importation of World War II Artillery Weapons  (Question No. 1744) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Petrol sniffing by Aboriginal children has been common in the area for a number of years. The activity is a fluctuating rather than a regular one. 
(a) and (b) The Northern Territory Departments of Health (formerly Commonwealth Health) and Community Development have investigated the practice. There is no evidence that the practice is increasing. It increases in popularity from time to time, with numbers of sniffers varying. Boys predominate but at times girls are also involved. Most concern in recent years has focussed on Maningrida, Elcho Island and Yirrkala. Where it operates programs, the YMCA has moved to combate the activity and has had some effect. Recividism is high, however, and meaningful involvement of parents in programs has been difficult to achieve. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Eight. 
and (3)- 
It is estimated that an additional 20 houses will be required to complete the program. 
Right Hon. I. McC. Sinclair (Question No. 2104) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, on 27 September 1979. In accordance with established practice when a Minister resigns I informed the Member that I had approved the usual two weeks winddown arrangements. 
I wrote again on 12 October 1979 confirming the availability of alternative electorate office accommodation for the Member and future employment arrangements for his former ministerial, and continuing electorate, staff. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In October of this year Bizjets sought and were given approval to cease operating to the Tasmanian ports of Smithton, Queenstown and Strahan. This was a commercial decision taken by the company and I understand that the uncertainty of Avgas supplies in Tasmania was a compounding factor. 
Issues relating to the supply and distribution of petroleum products come within the responsibility of my colleague, the 
Minister for National Development and this question has been brought to his attention. 
I will refer that question to the Minister for Administrative Services for reply. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, J. F. Morgan and F. W. Statham, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their report laid before the Senate on the 13th day of November 1979, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the report, and indicated in the maps referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of the Division suggested by the Commissioners for identification purposes to be named Canning be named O'Connor and that the name of the Division suggested to be named Roe be named Canning. 
The matter raised by the honourable senator about the unfortunate coincidence between the taking up of driving and the taking up of drinking is one which, I am sure, warrants the attention of the transport authorities round Australia. They are, of course, principally the States, although the question was directed to the situation in the Australian Capital Territory, which is the responsibility of the Commonwealth through the Minister for the Capital Territory, who is represented in this place by  Senator Webster.  I will refer the suggestion which has been made by the honourable senator, and which certainly warrants examination, to the Minister and seek a reply. 
-That report has scarcely been out of my mind over the last year or so and it has received a good deal of consideration. The report has not had a formal response to the Parliament in accordance with the undertaking, but the matter has been the subject of a number of debates here in the Senate and I have expressed the Government's view in those debates. The reason there has not been a formal response has been partly because of those less formal responses and also, as the Senate is aware, because there has been a continuing process of negotiation between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Government. The report expressed the view that those negotiations were not likely to be productive. Some other sceptics also expressed a similar view. As I have recently indicated to the Senate, that negotiation is a continuing process and 1 expect it to come to fruition over the next few weeks. I would hope then to be able to report in a far more definitive fashion to the Parliament early in the new year. 
I would hope to have any review concluded within a six-month period. I appointed  Mr Rowland  because, as I indicated to the Senate on an earlier occasion, I have had a series of representations relating to alleged practical difficulties in the operation of the Act. I wanted the assistance of counsel in examining those submissions. If further representations are made in the near future they will, of course, be examined at the same time. It is my intention that  Mr Rowland  should meet with the various interested parties, the land councils, the Northern Territory Government, and the mining and pastoral interests that have made representations. I would suggest that anyone who wants to put a view should write to me as soon as possible. 
I am not aware of the matters raised by the honourable senator; so I am not able to say whether they are correct. He also sought an opinion. 1 am not able to give that either. I will refer the question to  Mr Staley  and seek a reply. 
I am not able to tell the honourable senator the precise number of projects in the Northern Territory. I can tell him that to date there have been 12 projects which have been across Western Australia, the Northern Territory and South Australia. Those projects have been going since 1977. They did not all start at the same time; some have started since 1977. In fact, the most recent one has been opened at Milingimbi in the last month or two. The Government decided within the last couple of weeks to expand considerably the Community Development Employment Projects Scheme. It was an experimental scheme. To this stage some 650 Aboriginals have been employed under it. It has operated in only those remote communities that are virtually wholly Aboriginal and with respect to which there is virtually no normal employment available. The Government has decided to expand the Scheme to the tune of providing an additional sum of about $5. 5m in a full year. It is hoped to provide employment for an additional 1,200 Aboriginals around Australia. 
As all honourable senators will be aware, there is a very substantial unemployment problem for Aboriginal people. It is at a very much higher rate than applies in the general community. The Scheme, which has been tried in a  number of communities and which  I  would regard as having been reasonably successful, will enable work projects to be created in a number of additional remote communities.  I  cannot say at this stage where they will be located, but certainly some will be in Queensland.  I  will provide additional details to the honourable senator as soon as they are available. 
On 25 October this year  Senator Gietzelt  asked a question concerning the use of telephones in illegal betting operations. That question is to be found in  Hansard  on page 1765. Further information now provided to me by  Mr Staley  is that the only punitive measure that can be taken by Telecom against a lessee is that provided for under Telecommunications (General) By-law 34. Briefly, this provides that a service may be cancelled for a period of six months if the lessee or any person is convicted of carrying on an illegal business at the premises in which the service is installed. When applying for a business telephone service applicants are asked for information as to their occupation which is sought primarily in connection with directory entries. This information is accepted by Telecom in good faith and no action is taken if applicants subsequently change occupations without advising Telecom. 
-Last Thursday  Senator Rocher  asked a question about the omission of certain tariff information from the September 1979 issue of the Perth telephone directory. I undertook to have  Mr Staley  reply direct to  Senator Rocher,  but he has given me the information that the next new Perth directory- that is the one which has just been issued- is a pilot issue of a completely revised information section featuring a new colour-coded format. Telecom 's aim is to overcome the problem of customers not referring to the information pages because of the considerable amount of detailed information. 
The results of a survey to gauge customer attitudes showed that there was considerable acceptance of the new format and comments on the absence of tariff information were minimal. Another factor in Telecom's thinking was the continuing problem of out-of-date tariffs appearing in directories due to tariff changes and directory publication not always being coincidental. Telecom also considers that other publicity measures usually of a direct nature are more effective in publicising tariff information. Arrangements are in hand to gauge further public reaction by a post-issue survey. 
(Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission 1 978-79. 
(Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- For the information of honourable senators, I present the financial statements of the Australian National Railways Commission 1977-78. 
(Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council 1979. 
(Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies 1978-79. 
(Western Australia Minister for Aboriginal Affairs)- For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual report of Aboriginal Hostels Ltd 1978-79. 
I have listened to the arguments put by honourable senators and I do not believe that I can advance the matter further. This matter was the subject of many representations, some through  Senator Kilgariff  and some direct from people in the Northern Territory. It was given very careful consideration by the Government and the formula which is contained in proposed section 54C is one that, after very extensive consideration, the Government thought was the most workable and reasonable. As far as Western Mining Corporation Ltd is concerned, the one guideline that is there as to reasonableness is that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  is obliged to take into account the question of hardship. Unless there is a serious change in the financial position of Western Mining Corporation, I think I can categorically assure the Senate that it will not be in the queue. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 12 and proposed new clause 13- by leave- taken together. 
I rise only to acknowledge the comments of the two honourable senators who have spoken. I agree with the points that have been made with respect to the fact that there is that point of difference in the provision. What is suggested is a strengthening of it. I certainly acknowledge the quotation from  Mr Justice  Woodward 's report by  Senator Cavanagh.  I am pleased that  Senator Cavanagh  acknowledges that the Commonwealth has reflected that recommendation in the provision. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 1 1 -by leave- taken together. 
There are a number of amendments to be moved, some by me and some by the Opposition. I suggest that we deal with the Bill up to clause 6 in one part, and then take it piece by piece after that according to the amendments. I think the first amendment to be moved by the Opposition is to clause 6. 
Clauses 1 to 5- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Annual Reports by Land Councils). 
Purely out of courtesy, I respond to the honourable senator by saying that the Government stands by the view it took when it enacted section 64. 
-I accept that there is a difference of opinion. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
The more I hear, the more I do want to give the matter further consideration. I will stand by the position that I have indicated previously. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 6a. 
I rise just to say that I will note those remarks. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The total cost of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 's Inquiry into Self-Regulation, conducted during 1977 was $75,121 excluding salaries and payment in the nature of salary. The inquiry was held between 22 March and 8 June 1977. 
A total of 292 persons gave evidence before the Tribunal during the Self-Regulation Inquiry. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Members of the Tribunal receive travelling allowance as determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
Travel and accommodation arrangements are based on needs. Travel is usually by air (first class) or by car (official or hire) if appropriate. 
Accommodation is normal motel (all facilities) standard except on rare occasions when additional space may be necessary for purposes of meetings/discussions, etc. 
The cost of travel and accommodation and incidental expenses for Tribunal members incurred during the calendar years 1 977 and 1 978 was as follows: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) As advised previously in answer to Question No. 776 an ad hoc committee of Cabinet was formed for the purpose of studying VHF/FM broadcasting. 
That committee did not, however, meet and, therefore, no decisions were taken by it. 
The honourable senator would be aware that the Government has now decided on its policy for the development of commercial FM broadcasting and this was announced by me earlier this year. 
Under these circumstances, details of membership of the ad hoc committee would appear to be irrelevant. 
My attention has been drawn to reports of an outbreak of gastroenteritis on Palm Island. I was concerned to learn of that, partly because of the fact of the outbreak, which I suppose would be of concern to anybody, and also because the Commonwealth Government in fact has provided financial assistance to the Queensland Government under the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Act for public utilities projects on Palm Island. Indeed, the main purpose of those grants was to assist the Aboriginal community on Palm Island with essential services- water, sewerage and so on. Something like $6.1m has been provided since 1973 and $2. 175m has been provided for the Palm Island water supply alone. 
After I received those reports, I wrote to the State Minister for Health,  Sir William  Knox. I received a reply, not from  Sir William  but from the Director-General of Health and Medical Services, who sent a telex to me which indicated that  Sir William  was away, hence the DirectorGeneral was replying. That report confirmed the outbreak and stated that over two months there had been 65 cases, being 55 cases in children and 10 cases in adults. That resulted in the hospitalisation of 13 children. They have subsequently been discharged and are apparently all right. The investigations which have been made by the State, I am advised by  Mr Musgrave,  include water sampling and bacteriological analysis of faecal specimens. In general, the findings seem to give rise to no cause for alarm and do not disclose why an outbreak of gastroenteritis should have occurred at all. 
I notice, however, in the Press material that was sent to me this morning by my Department that the  Townsville Bulletin  of 13 November drew attention to some conflicting test results. That paper reports that a sample of water taken from the Palm Island water supply by the Aboriginal and Islanders Medical Centre and tested by the Federal Department of Health 's pathology laboratory in Townsville showed that water contained an unacceptable level of bacteria. That report has only just come onto my desk. These apparent conflicts concern me. I will take the matter up again with the Queensland Government. There is certainly no argument about the fact that a substantial number of children have suffered from gastroenteritis. That is of concern to the Federal Government. I will see what action can be taken, in concert with the State authorities, to do something about the matter. 
The request which was made of me yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has been referred to the Minister for Administrative Services in the usual way, not by me personally but by my staff. As for what stage it is at, I am afraid I have had no response as yet from the Minister. In the light of the interest in this matter, I will seek to expedite a response. I will pass the third part of the question on to my colleague for reply. 
The honourable senator asked me whether I am satisfied that the terms of reference are sufficiently wide to enable  Mr Rowland  to report on all matters. The answer to that question is no. I have not asked  Mr Rowland  to report on all matters but rather to report on specific practical difficulties which have been drawn to my attention or allegations about practical difficulties with respect to the land rights legislation which have been drawn to my attention. It is certainly not my wish for  Mr Rowland  or anybody else to set off and, for example, to undertake another Woodward Aboriginal Land Rights Commission kind of report. The Commonwealth Government is quite satisfied with respect to the broad principles of the Woodward report which was accepted by the then Opposition parties shortly after the release of the report and enacted into legislation in 1976.  Mr Rowland  has not been retained to examine questions of basic principle. 
By way of example, mining companies have represented that it is not possible to explore for minerals on Aboriginal land because the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act does not permit an agreement to be made before a mining lease has been issued. That sort of practical problem is the sort of thing which can arise with new legislation for which there has been no precedent in Australia. I am anxious that if there are practical difficulties of that sort they should be removed. I think all honourable senators would share that view. I think there is broad bipartisan support in this chamber for the land rights legislation. I am sure that all honourable senators wish that the legislation should work as smoothly and effectively as possible. It is important in terms of the relations between the nonAboriginal and Aboriginal communities in the 
Northern Territory that that should be so. The aim in appointing  Mr Rowland  is simply to remove any sharp edges which might exist in terms of the practicalities of the thing and not to examine the principles. 
There was a further point in the honourable senator's question. I had not thought that the States would have any particular interest in this matter, but if State governments had views on the practical operation I would be very happy to receive them and to have them examined along with all the other views I have received. 
I am not aware of when the report is to be received. However, I have some advice from the Minister for Transport on the subject. It is that some time ago the Premier of Tasmania indicated that he would send the Commonwealth a submission concerning the Island and that the Commonwealth would take it into consideration. The present program provides for the unmanning of Maatsuyker Island light station within 18 months. The reasoning behind this is that the Commonwealth Government has an obligation to run as effectively and as economically as possible marine navigational aids, which are 100 per cent funded by the commercial shipping industry. The unmanning of that light station will bring about a saving of at least $50,000 a year and will in no way decrease the efficiency of navigational aid to shipping. That is the whole basis of the Commonwealth's approach to this matter. At the moment the impost placed on ship owners is heavy and this is one way of lightening it in pan.  Senator Rae,  who is concerned about this matter, also raised it with me some time ago. It is still receiving the consideration of the Government. 
by leave- I wish to make a personal explanation. At four points in the speech of  Senator Keeffe  statements were made which reflect on me and which are inaccurate. I would like to put the position straight for the Senate. Firstly, it was alleged by the honourable senator that I was out of the chamber during the speech by my colleague  Senator Kilgariff.  That is obviously not true. Secondly, he alleged that I was not in town for the passage of the legislation and that that had caused a delay. That is not true. At no stage have I not been in Canberra to be able to deal with this legislation when it has found its way into the program. I will explain the reason for the delay, which in part relates to the acceptance of an amendment suggested by the Australian Labor Party, during my formal reply. 
Thirdly, the honourable senator stated that the legislation first appeared at the beginning of the Budget session. This is not a particularly important point, but it reflects the standard of inaccuracy of his speech. The legislation first appeared during the autumn session of this year. Fourthly, it was stated by the honourable senator that the Government had knuckled under to the Northern Territory Government with respect to Alice Springs housing. The fact of the matter is that the location of housing under the Aboriginal Housing Agreement is specifically and directly within the province of the Northern Territory Government. It is not at all within my jurisdiction or the jurisdiction of my Government. The fifth clear point of inaccuracy related to  Senator Kilgariff",  who was misquoted as to the number of leases he referred to during his speech. I am sorry to have interrupted the flow of the debate, but I think these inaccuracies indicate a carelessness in  Senator Keeffe  's approach to this debate on a subject which I think is extremely important and which I do not think is particularly complimentary to the Senate or to the honourable senator. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland)-by leaveWhat the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has said is most unfair. He has got to the stage where he has made an inaccurate statement. I just cannot understand him. I do not know what is wrong with him. If the figures that were quoted by  Senator Kilgariff,  which were taken by me to be the figures that the Minister was referring to, were something else, it was an honest mistake. What the Minister said about housing at Alice Springs is not true because his Government had a lot to do with it. It supplied all the capital for it. When pressure was applied the Federal Government knuckled under, not the Northern Territory Government. The Northern Territory Government won all along the line. If misleading statements are to be made in this place, I think that some of the previous debates on this matter ought to be referred to so that the Minister may enlighten himself on the matter. It is unfair to make untrue statements like that. 
I thank honourable senators for their contributions to this debate on what I was bold or silly enough to describe at some stage as a non-contentious issue. In fact, the debate has ranged over a fair area of concern about Aboriginal land rights and Aboriginal affairs generally. However, I would like to lay at least a couple of ghosts to rest. It is perhaps a healthy thing that there is a concern in the Parliament to make sure that the land rights legislation of 1976 is not whittled away. I understand and respect that concern. I think that my job would be more difficult if that concern did not exist right across the floor of the Parliament. I accept that wholeheartedly. On the other hand, I think that damage can be done by undue suspicion on the part of the Opposition. I believe that that damage can occur in eroding the consensus which was built up over the matter of giving Aboriginals security in Australia through the instrument of secure access to land and what is usually termed land rights.  (Quorum formed).  As I was saying, I think that, in being unduly suspicious, there is a real risk that the consensus which has built up will be eroded. 

 Senator Gietzelt, who led for the Opposition in the debate, and a number of other Opposition speakers suggested, for example, that there might be something sinister in the fact that there had been a delay in bringing the Bill forward. I would have preferred to have brought it into the Parliament earlier in the session, but the explanation for not having done so is pretty simple.  Senator Cavanagh  wrote to me making a suggestion with respect to the disallowance provision as it related to national interest proclamations. I sent that correspondence to my Department for consideration. I got a response. I wrote to  Senator Cavanagh  saying, I think, that I had the matter under consideration. After giving the matter consideration I came to the conclusion that  Senator Cavanagh  's suggestion was sound. In other words, I approached the matter in a way in which  Senator Gietzelt  urged me to approach Opposition amendments. I wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 26 September 1979, which is when I completed my consideration, suggesting that a further amendment to the Bill ought to be made along the lines suggested by  Senator Cavanagh  in his correspondence. 
It was slow, I admit that, but I am pointing out to the Senate how the delay occurred. It had nothing to do with any concern about the amendments which were being put forward; it had to do with a suggestion that a further amendment to the legislation should be made. It had to be processed through the Government parties and through the Cabinet system. Some time ago I notified  Senator Cavanagh  orally that it had been agreed that there should be a further amendment. On perhaps some inefficiency or slowness on my part in dealing with the suggestion rests the delay. I suggest to honourable senators that there is nothing sinister in that. 
Another matter of concern to honourable senators is the appointment of  Mr Barry  Rowland, Q.C., to examine matters which have been raised with me and which allege difficulties in the practical implementation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. On 13 November I issued a Press release which was aimed at damping down the sorts of fears expressed by honourable senators and reflected in some newspaper articles. The Press release states: 
I emphasise that the examination would be without detriment to the basic principles of the Act. 
I have consistently said that if there are claims of practical difficulties in the implementation of this pioneering legislation those claims should be examined and, if the difficulties are found to exist, they should be removed. I think that is a sensible stance to take and one which I will continue to take during the period in which I am Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Those honourable senators who feel that there is something wrong in examining the Act in that way might console themselves by looking at the second report of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, headed by  Mr Justice  Woodward. I refer them in particular to paragraphs 757 to 764, which are headed 'Future Review of arrangements'. Those paragraphs relate to even a review of principle.  Mr Justice  Woodward stated in paragraph 757: 
In arriving at these recommendations, I have experienced great doubt on a number of issues- particularly those relating to mineral rights and to additional claims in pastoral lease areas. Although I believe the steps recommended to be those most likely to achieve the aims set out at the beginning of this report, there must be uncertainty as to the way in which many of the proposals will turn out in practice. 
I do not adopt any stance in respect of substance in reading that paragraph and I have just read the section of my Press release which is relevant to points of principle. On examining those paragraphs one sees, I think, a very sensible observation on the part of  Mr Justice  Woodward that here is something new that will need to be examined. He says very carefully in those paragraphs that a stable framework is important. Honourable senators opposite who are concerned might read those paragraphs and ponder them because I think the paragraphs represent sound common sense and something about which we ought not to be fearful. 
A series of points has been made by honourable senators in this debate. I will touch very quickly on some of the points which have been made. The first two major points made by  Senator Gietzelt  are those which I have already touched upon. He was also concerned about the position of the States and the Commonwealth 's attitude to the States. I can only remind honourable senators opposite that in 1975 when they proposed to legislate for land rights they introduced a Bill which, like the Government's Bill, was restricted to the Northern Territory. The view was taken by  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report- he was asked to report only on the Northern Territory- that an examination of the State position would take much longer but that what was done in the Northern Territory would provide something of a precedent. So far, it has not provided a precedent in the sense of complementary legislation being enacted in the States. 
Various means are being adopted by State governments to ensure that Aboriginals have secure access to land. In each State the Commonwealth has taken a positive interest in encouraging State action. In New South Wales an inquiry is under way at the moment. In South Australia legislation is proposed. I have had talks with the South Australian Government on that. In Victoria a limited amount of land has been made available. In Tasmania an inquiry has been held. Extensive areas are set aside in Western Australia as reserves and the State Government assures they are permanently reserved for Aboriginal use and benefit. Honourable senators would know of the continuous dealings between this Government and the Queensland Government on the question of land and Aboriginal access to and security on land. 

 Senator Gietzelt was also concerned; as was  Senator Robertson-  about an amendment which permits the Minister to accept part or all of a recommendation of a land commissioner. The Commissioner's view is that the Minister already has this power. As I indicated in the second reading speech, there was concern because of legal advice the Government had received that perhaps that was not a correct view and that I had either to accept a recommendation in total or reject it in total. If any honourable senator needs convincing that that is not a very sensible range of options for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, I refer him to the Commissioner's report for the year ended 30 June 1977. At page 4, paragraphs 1 7 to 20, the Commissioner puts down his view of the Act and points out that he makes a recommendation on the basis of Aboriginal attachment to land, that the other questions of competing land usage are simply matters for comment and that it is the province of the Minister to make a decision on the basis first of all of the recommendation which relates only to the Aboriginal side of things taking into account the matters of comment on which the Commissioner has also heard evidence. 
It is true, one could argue, that the scheme of the Act should be different and that the Commissioner should have the power to make recommendations which exclude areas which it is argued successfully before him should be excluded. I think that these questions of competing land use basically in the end have to be decided by government. I do not pretend that it will necessarily be an easy matter for decision in particular cases. But I think the fact is that it is really a decision for government rather than a decision for a quasi-judicial tribunal to be making. In the report which I put before the Parliament with respect to the Uluru land claim I went to some trouble to point out the land use considerations. In that case I was able to- adopt the recommendations of the Commissioner in total. I hope that in many cases that will be so. I think that the scheme of the Act at the moment is a reasonable one and that this amendment should be seen as doing no more than confirming the legal position as it was understood by the Government and by the Land Commissioner. 
The question of clause 8 has been raised by a number of people including  Senator Kilgariff.  This clause introduces, for the first time, the prospect of persons' appearing before the Land Commissioner receiving legal aid. I am a little nonplussed, in fact, by the opposition to this clause from honourable senators opposite. The matters which come before the Land Commissioner often affect people other than Aboriginals. Those people naturally want to put their point of view before the Commissioner. It has been a mattter of ill feeling in the Northern Territory that apparently- I only repeat what is felt in the Northern Territory and what is represented to me- unlimited funds are made available to Aboriginals, to land councils and others to get high priced legal help and no assistance is made available to other parts of the community. This clause simply provides the Attorney-General with the power to give legal aid in appropriate cases. I should make it clear, in deference to the comments made by  Senator Kilgariff,  that a means test is not imposed in an absolute sense in the way it is under the legal aid system. Instead, the question of means is simply one of the factors which the Attorney is required to take into account in determining whether it is reasonable to grant legal aid. In other words, it is not a condition precedent. It is simply one of the factors to be borne in mind. 

 Senator Gietzelt made a plea that I should take a reasonable attitude to the Opposition amendments. I indicate now that the Government does not propose to accept the amendments which have been put foward. I repeat that I have already accepted an Opposition amendment which was raised with me by  Senator Cavanagh  as being something which will improve the Bill marginally. For reasons that I will explain in the Committee stage I do not believe that the other amendments are appropriate or would improve the Bill. 

 Senator Kilgariff raised a series of points. I thank him for his kind remarks and his encouragement. I was pleased that he quoted Paul Everingham, the Chief Minister, in his defence of land rights. A number of comments have been made by  Senator Robertson  and I think by some other senators about the attitude of the Northern Territory Government to land rights. It is very important that the Senate note not only the comments of the Chief Minister which were referred to by  Senator Kilgariff  but also the comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Northern Territory,  Mr Marshall  Perron. At the Develop the North' seminar in Broome recently he responded strongly to the critical remarks of the Premier of Queensland and defended land rights in the Northern Territory and their operation. In fact, the Northern Territory Government has made it clear on many occasions that it proposes to support land rights. I welcome those assurances. 

 Senator Kilgariff raised the question of compulsory Aboriginal voting which is to be introduced in the Northern Territory. It seems a little peripheral to the Bill but I would like to say that the recommendations of the Council for Aboriginal Development are in the terms of what is now being done by the Northern Territory Government, namely, the imposition of compulsory voting for Aboriginals, with the exception that the Council has sought a period of delay during which there would be an education campaign. In fact, I have already had a request from the Northern Territory Government seeking an extension to the Northern Territory of the education campaign which is at present operating in Western Australia and South Australia. At present I have that request under consideration and am very sympathetic to it. 
I note also  Senator Kilgariff's  point that too much could be spent in the land council system. I say in response to that that these are critical years for the land councils which are bringing forward the land claims. Because it is a new system virtually all land claims remain to be dealt with, lt is important that the councils do their work well. The Government has done what it can to support the land councils in gearing themselves up for the complex tasks that they have. It is a difficult area. The costs of the land councils have risen steeply over the last year. I think that has to be expected at this early period. It is a matter that the Government is aware of and concerned about. 
With respect to pastoral leases, a matter raised by  Senator Kilgariff  and  Senator Robertson,  I can say only that there have been lengthy explanations from the Northern Territory that these leases are not under threat. I have carefully examined those statements and it seems clear that the Northern Territory Government, in common with other governments, is taking a much more careful look at pastoral lease provisions now that pastoral conditions are so much more prosperous except in drought areas. I have received assurances from the Northern Territory Government that the Aboriginal leases will be treated in the same way as all other leases. My Department accepts that it has a responsibility to ensure that Aboriginal attention is drawn to the pastoral lease conditions so that the risk of forfeiture does not arise. 
I have already made some comments on the speech by  Senator Keeffe  in the course of a personal explanation. I regret, for the reason that I mentioned earlier- that we should be building a consensus on these issues rather than breaking it down- that he took such an attacking stance. For example, he suggested that in this legislation, as in the complementary legislation proposals, we were doing the bidding of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I can say only that these amendments have been before the Parliament since April or May of this year and the land councils have not raised a single word of objection. I know of no representations by the Northern Territory Government relating to any of the amendments that are currently before us. As far as my knowledge is concerned, that aspect of  Senator Keeffe  's remarks has no foundation in fact whatever. 

 Senator Mason made a very good point when he spoke of the fragility of relations in this area. It is certainly true that the land councils have been given a series of complex tasks to perform. They are under considerable pressure to perform that multiplicity of complex tasks and it would be very easy to destroy the relationship between the Government and the land councils which is important to the good working of this Act. I note his remarks in that respect, with which I do not have any real disagreement. Stage 2 of the Kakadu National Park, as he mentioned, is more the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  to whom I will refer his remarks for consideration and reply. 
The right of veto, which he raised, would be a matter of considerable concern. I say quite flatly to the Senate that the right of veto is not within the review that is currently being undertaken. That is clearly understood by  Mr Rowland.  I do not believe that I need make any further comment on that. It would be a matter of principle and, therefore, by definition, outside the scope of review. As to the profits which may or may not flow to the Northern Land Council in the event of further development in the uranium province, T can only direct the attention of the Senate and  Senator Mason  to the fact that, under the Act, the terms and conditions under which mining would proceed are to be negotiated by the Land Council, acting on behalf of the traditional owners, with the miner concerned. Therefore, it lies outside of the province of the Government to determine what those terms and conditions shall be. However, an agreement of that sort does require my approval. I would expect that, as in prior agreements, the land councils would prove quite adequate to the task of negotiating suitable terms and conditions. The solid way in which the Central Land Council has maintained its negotiating stance in the Mereenie situation augurs well for the future of the land council role in this area. 

 Senator Robertson raised a series of matters.  His  comments on the Borroloola land situation reflect to some extent either a slight misunderstanding or perhaps a brevity in expressing his views which may have given rise to my not hearing what he said in quite the way that he meant. As would be well known to the honourable senator, many of the Aboriginals who were involved in the claim were extremely disappointed with the finding of the commissioner. He did not find in favour of the Aboriginals, not because of questions of access, mining and so on but because, with respect to quite significant areas of land, he did not find the required strength of traditional attachment to obtain. So, in fact, the claim failed at its root. The remaining problems which I have before me relating to - 
It is a complex of areas. The claims in respect of some areas were granted. The Borroloola common, for which title has not yet been issued, but for which it has been recommended, did not involve the excision of a corridor for mining. Rather, it involved the excision of a road over which the public had a right-of-way and comments were made in regard to the width that ought to be permitted, given that there may be mining development. The matter is still before me, but I hope that the arrangements between the Northern Land Council, the Northern Territory Government and the miners who are involved ultimately will produce a reasonable solution for all of the competing demands in that area. 
They are currently involved in discussions and negotiations with the Northern Territory Government on that matter. Also, I query some of  Senator Robertson's  comments about the fact that all of the money which is negotiated under these mining agreements is not to go directly to the Aboriginals. The mining agreements were made after negotiations which took place following the passage of the Act, when clearly the parties knew that the breakdown provided for in the Act of 40 per cent, 30 per cent and 30 per cent, would apply. I do not think that, given the agreements which have been made, there has been any misrepresentation on the part of either the traditional owners or the land councils as to what the actual cash flows would be. 
-That is so. Perhaps the penultimate point with which I want to deal is the role of the Northern Territory Government, which  Senator Robertson  raised also. The fact is that the Commission will be forwarding reports to the Administrator- which means, of course, to the Northern Territory Government. In turn, before decisions are made on claims I will be seeking the comments of that Government because of the difficult land use questions which fall to the Minister for the time being to decide; but that is the extent of the role of the Northern Territory Government. 
-That is right. The proclamation of the Jabiru town site was dealt with adequately and the position of the Commonwealth made clear by the statement of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  yesterday, a statement which doubtless has been seen by the honourable senators. Again, the matter of roads, which was also raised by  Senator Robertson,  has been satisfactorily put to bed in terms which will not diminish the rights of Aboriginals but will enable the titles to be registered and any disputes to be settled subsequently, by either discussion or litigation. I can only say that I agree with  Senator Robertson's  remarks concerning the Hewatt article. It is incumbent upon us to get the story across far better than we have in the past. I accept that as a government responsibility and am examining it at the moment to see how we can improve the public perception of what we as legislators and as a government, produced in 1976. 
I have given a long reply in a debate on a Bill which essentially effects rather technical amendments to the Act, but I appreciate the considerable interest in land rights on the part of honourable senators, whom I thank for their continuing participation in this regard. 
Which amendment is that? 
The Government would not propose to accept that amendment. In the Nothern Territory itself claims of that kind are not subject to the provisions of this Act. As I thought would be well known to Opposition senators, claims such as that for Kulaluk, for example, are dealt with by discussion with the Government and by the granting of leases. They are outside the jurisdiction of the Land Commissioner and the land rights Act generally. The view of the Government is that the position of the Wreck Bay people is best dealt with by similar procedures. The present state of affairs between the Government and the Wreck Bay community is such that there is not a claim for traditional land rights as in the Northern Territory or in the traditional community form, but rather a disagreement about the lease area which ought to be granted. There is disagreement about the history of the lease area, the Wreck Bay people alleging that the reserve area was expanded considerably beyond what has been found in government records to be the case. Therefore, it is not proposed, by this Bill or by any other means, to extend the operation of the land rights Act to the Australian Capital Territory or, indeed, change the way of dealing with non-traditional claims for land by Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. It is proposed that they should continue to be dealt with by a system of special lease of the sort seen in Alice Springs and of the sort seen in Darwin. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
I have listened carefully to what has been said by  Senator Gietzelt.  I agree with part of what he says in the sense that I think it is important that Parliament has an opportunity to examine these areas, particularly where public money is involved. Of course, arguably, no public money will be involved when the accounts get back into balance and the whole of the Land Councils 'expenses can be met under the 40 per cent allocation. It is hoped that that will be within the next couple of years. There is some reservation in the councils about the extent to which the Government, and I suspect also the Parliament, does interfere with the operations of the land councils, which they say are set up as independent bodies and funded in a way provided for in the statute, normally without additional subventions of public moneys. So it is an area where there is some sensitivity on the part of the land councils. 
I have reservations about the amendment on that basis, but also I have reservations on the basis that it seems to me that one might consider changing 'Minister' in line 22 to 'Parliament', but leaving 'Minister' in line 24 on the basis that Parliament is a rather unwieldly body to be setting about approving the form of financial statements, and so on. Where it appears on the second occasion, it seems to me that it would be a rather clumsy instrument to perform that task. 
What I would do on behalf of the Government is indicate that we oppose the amendment, but undertake to give the matter consideration and to query the proposal with the land councils between now and the autumn session. It is my intention to introduce further amending legislation in the autumn session to cover the roads question which was mentioned by a number of honourable senators in debate and on which I have indicated to the land councils and the Northern 
Territory Government that amendments will be brought forward. I would propose therefore to oppose the amendment, but on the clear understanding that I will give it consideration and refer it to the land councils, and that there will be an opportunity to bring it before the Senate again. 
I move: 
Page 2, after clause 6, insert the following new clause: "6a. Section 42 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (3) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
Where- 
a notice referred to in sub-section (2) is given with respect to a Proclamation; and 
at the expiration of the period during which a resolution disapproving of the declaration in the Proclamation could have been passed- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the relevant motion has not been called on; or 
the relevant motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, the declaration in the Proclamation shall be deemed to have been disapproved of. (3a) If- 
neither House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (2) disapproving of the declaration in a Proclamation; and 
the declaration in the Proclamation has not been deemed to have been disapproved of under subsection (3), the Proclamation takes effect on the day immediately following the last day upon which a resolution disapproving of the declaration in the Proclamation could have been passed.'.". 
I acknowledge, as I did in my reply to the second reading debate, that this amendment arises out of a suggestion made by  Senator Cavanagh  who, in correspondence, drew my attention to the difference between the disallowance provision of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act as it relates to a national interest proclamation permitting mining over an Aboriginal veto and what might be called the standard provision in the Acts Interpretation Act and in a number of other Acts. After examination, I concluded that there was a difference and I accepted the honourable senator's point. Therefore, I put this forward as a Government amendment.  Senator Cavanagh  has raised a similar point with respect to the National Health Act which also contains this different provision. The National Health Act was amended some time ago in accordance with his suggestion. The Government therefore proposes this amendment. 
The difference, for those honourable senators who are not familiar with it, is that the existing section provides that if a disallowance motion is not dealt with within15 sitting days the motion does not take effect. The standard provision is that if it is not dealt with in the 1 5 sitting days which are allowed it is deemed to be carried. The view of the Government has always been that there was no real problem, because if one had a majority sufficient to carry a resolution, one had a majority sufficient to bring it before the chamber. I do accept that there is that possibility of difference. It does away with the possibility of an omission which may mean that the Parliament forgot to deal with it notwithstanding its importance. I propose that amendment which for the moment, we might dub the Cavanagh amendment. 
That was inserted to cover the delay which was occasioned between the announcement of this decision and the introduction of the Bill. I am speaking from memory, but my recollection is that when the Government decision was taken I issued a Press release which indicated that as from that date applications would be entertained. In other words, it was not back-dated in a general sense but it indicated that as from the date of the Press release applications could be made and would be considered even though the Bill - 
-No. The present position- on my advice which is a few days old now but which I have no notice has been changed- is that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has not granted financial assistance for this purpose to date. Approximately seven applications have been received, six relating to the Uluru National Park claim which is one that I referred to and which was pending at that time, and one relating to the Dum-in-merri claim which is yet to be heard. 
Regarding the other points which were made by the honourable senator, the section speaks for itself as to the basis on which legal aid is granted. It requires the Attorney-General or delegated officer to be satisfied that in all the circumstances it is reasonable. No attempt has been made to provide a guide book on how the AttorneyGeneral should arrive at the reasonableness of any application although there is a qualification in sub-section (3) which says: 
The circumstances . . . including a reference to any hardship that the refusal of the application in question would cause to the applicant . . . 
When I was speaking in reply to the second reading debate I indicated that that was not a condition precedent but one of the conditions which was to be taken into account. There are various Acts which provide for legal aid in specific circumstances. I do not have a catalogue of those before me. I examined them at the time this recommendation was being considered. I think in some of them hardship is a condition precedent. In this case hardship is one of the factors which is to be taken into account. My officers have just found the Press release to which I referred. It was issued on 13 February and I announced the following: 
The Government intended to legislate to provide financial assistance in appropriate cases to individuals, groups, associations or corporate bodies which wish to be represented in future hearings before the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. 
I indicated the basis which was that the Attorney-General should be satisfied, in all the circumstances, including the possibility of hardship to the applicant that it was reasonable. I note that this does not include time. I must have issued a subsequent Press release which established the actual date. This Press release says: 
Individuals or groups wishing to take advantage of the new provisions should make application, following the passage of the legislation . . . 
In fact, subsequently I made a statement that it could be taken back to this date. I can not give the Senate any further guidance on this matter. I do not think that in any of the statutes in which legal aid is provided there is any guidance as to how one determines whether an application is reasonable. 
With respect to clause 12, 1 move: 
Page 5, clause 12, add the following new sub-clause: 
The reference in sub-section ( 1 ) to amounts paid by the Commonwealth out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund shall be read as not including a reference to- 
any amount paid under an agreement under subsection 44(1) or (2) of the  Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act  1976; or 
any amount paid out of the appropriation made by item 07 of sub-division 3 of Division 640 of the  Appropriation Act (No.  1) 1978-79. 
It was intended that the proposed section provide for the repayment of special appropriations made from Consolidated Revenue during 1978-79 to supplement section 64(1) payments- that is, the 40 per cent payments which are made to land councils- which were insufficient to meet Land Council expenses. Section 12 of the Bill as introduced could be interpreted as requiring the repayment of other special payments made during 1978-79 to meet Land Council expenses, such as those under the Ranger agreement. The proposed amendment ensures that these special payments are not required to be repaid to Consolidated Revenue. 
1 will move the second amendment which inserts a new clause 13. I move: 
Page S, add the following new clause: 
3. ( 1 ) This section applies to any payment made on or after 23 June 1978 and before the commencement of this section that purported to be a payment under sub-section 64 (4) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, being- 
a ) a payment to a Land Council for the purpose of meeting the administrative costs of the Council; or 
a payment to a person by way of a loan by the Commonwealth. 
A payment to which this section applies shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be, and to have been, a payment that was validly made under sub-section 64 (4) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. 
The new clause 13 is to cover the fact that during 1978-79, payments were made under section 64 (4) of the principal Act to meet land council budgets since at the time there were inadequate funds available to councils under section 64 ( 1 ). In addition, some personal loans were made to Aboriginals under section 64(4). A subsequent legal opinion received from the AttorneyGeneral 's Department cast some doubt as to the validity of these payments. It was that opinion which led to the payments from the Advance to the Treasurer to the land councils which are to be repaid. Bearing in mind the case of Whitlam v. Sankey, I thought that to continue the payments might give rise to some very serious allegations. The Auditor-General has commented in his 1978-79 annual report that the legislative proposals under consideration in the Bill do not resolve the question of the legality of the payments and loans to land councils. This second amendment will settle this issue. 
by leave- I understand that there have been discussions, as indicated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  On the basis that agreement has been reached on an orderly process to pass through the Government's program in the next week, the Government agrees to the proposition that  Senator McLaren  be invited to seek leave again. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The staffing organisation of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has been reviewed on the basis that the Broadcasting Information Office will be established. Until the BIO is established, the Tribunal will continue to carry out those functions which the Government has indicated will be performed by the BIO. Pending creation of the BIO the establishment of Tribunal stands at some 167 positions of which 103 are currently staffed. 
The staffing organisation of the Tribunal (pre-supposing the existence of the BIO) is as follows: 
the organisation consists of four branches, i.e. Secretariat and Public Relations; Management Services; Public Inquiry (and Licensing); Programs. 
the approved establishment comprises 34 positions; and 
there is no provision for state offices as such. 
The question of additional staff did not arise in the recent review; on the contrary insofar as the Tribunal itself is concerned a significant reduction in positions resulted. 
Action is being taken to fill new positions within the limits of the staff ceiling. 
Fire at Radio Communications Service Centre at Botany  (Question No.  1697) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The damage caused by the fire and subsequent water damage was extensive. Damage to the building structure was estimated at $72,000 and was covered by the owner's insurance company. Damage to Telecom equipment was estimated at $2. 75m. 
The fire was reported to the Fire Brigade at approximately 2.20 p.m. by a nearby resident, after operation of a fire alarm bell. 
The cause of the fire in unknown, but the NSW Police report to the City coroner indicated no suspicious circumstances. 
After the fire was reported to the NSW Fire Brigade, the following security arrangements were adopted: 
From time of arrival of the Fire Brigade on 17 December 1978 until the afternoon of 18 December 1978, the building was completely under control of the Fire Brigade. 
The building was taken over by Telecom staff from the Fire Brigade during the afternoon of 18 December 1978, and from close of business on that day until commencement of business on 19 December 1978 the building was attended continuously by a security company guard. This arrangement of Telecom staff during normal hours and a security guard during other times, provided continual attendance until the morning of 22 December 1 978. 
On 22 December 1978 a full time security company guard was employed until 26 January 1979, when the building was completely vacated by Telecom. 
Action to secure the building physically was commenced on 18 December 1978 and completed on 20 December 1978. 
The Botany Radio Communications Service Centre contained test and repair facilities only, and was in no way connected into the radiocommunications network: 
The long term effect of the damage has been to slow down repair time, as some repairs have had to be undertaken in situ due to shortages of spare equipment modules and test equipment required to replace items damaged in the fire. 
The Botany Radiocommunications Service Centre differed from the radio terminals at Waverley and Redfern in that the Service Centre provided test and repair facilities for the NSW radio network whereas Waverley and Redfern are traffic handling terminals within that network. 
Fire protection and security arrangements at these locations include automatic fire alarm systems incorporating smoke and heat detection devices and are connected to the NSW Fire Brigade. 
The Redfern Radio Terminal is located within the Redfern Telephone Exchange building and is staffed continuously. The Waverley Terminal is staffed during normal working hours and at other times equipment and security alarms are monitored at Redfern. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) and (b) Yes 
Where, as in this case, there is an entitlement to unrestricted car transport it is the normal practice to provide the vehicle and driver on an ' as directed ' basis. 
Hermes Satellite: Subscriber Two-way Telephony (Question No. 1779) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It has been estimated that a small television receive only earth station would require a power supply of 15-20 watts. In addition, the television set would require 200 watts, making a total power requirement of 220 watts. 
Two-way telephony units are still at the final stages of design, and it is not at present possible to give a definitive answer to this question. It is understood, however, that the Canadian earth stations used in the recent Hermes demonstrations had a power requirement of an estimated 460 watts. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Only a relatively few homesteads would be without electric power generating equipment. 
The cost 2 kWA electric power generating equipment varies from $390 to $500 (plus tax). 
Subscriber Telephony Circuits, Operating through Satellite (Question No. 1783) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
My Department does not have details of subscriber telephony circuits, operating through satellite on world-wide basis, however, I am informed that Canada provides telephony, television and radio services for 43 remote communities via their national satellite. By the end of 1 979 there will be 224 telephony circuits operating in the single channel per carrier mode. 
Radio Station 2JJ (Question No. 1871) 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1) Station 2 JJ commenced operation in January 1975. In April 1975, the ABC formally requested the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board to plan for improved transmitter facilities. 
The ABC requested performance of 2 JJ to be upgraded to a standard appropriate to a major capital city service. It is not, however, the responsibility of the ABC to assess transmission power needs. This is a responsibility of my Department. 
and (4) Funds were originally allocated in the 1975-76 capital works program for the upgrading of 2JJ. Planning was suspended, however, pending the outcome of discussions on the possible transfer of 2 JJ to the FM band. 
The question of using the FM band was not pursued at that time. Consequently, the possible upgrading of 2 JJ had to be reconsidered in light of other developments of the national radio and television services. As recently as 19 September 1979, however, I affirmed to the ABC my support for 2 JJ and, in particular, the transfer of that service to the FM band. It is proposed that the standby transmitter for the present National FM Service in Sydney will be utilised. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Two. 
Telegen, Palo Alto, California. To report on new developments in broadcasting equipment and techniques, particularly those disclosed at international conventions at which the ABC could not have representatives.  Dr S.  Bochner. As Consultant to the Organisation Development Project. 
Telegen: $US1,000. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) There is no requirement that commercial broadcasting stations play a certain percentage of Australian produced records. There are, however, requirements relating to the playing of music composed and music performed by Australians. 
Since 1942 there has been a statutory requirement that commercial broadcasting stations devote a certain percentage of their total music time to the playing of music composed by Australians. This was originally set at a level of  2b  per cent. In 1956 this requirement was raised to 5 per cent of total music time. 
On 1 July 1973 the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board, now the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, introduced a requirement that commercial broadcasting stations devote a minimum of 10 per cent of their total music time to the playing of music performed by Australians. 
This percentage has been increased on three occasions to the present level of 20 per cent: 
on 28 July 1974 increased to 12V6 percent. 
on 12 January 1975 increased to 15 percent. 
on 2 May 1976 increased to 20 per cent. 
In its report of the 1977 public inquiry into the concept of self-regulation for broadcasters, the Tribunal proposed that the percentage requirement relating to Australian music performances be increased in two stages from 20 per cent to 30 per cent. The Tribunal is currently holding discussions with representatives of commercial broadcasting stations and the Australian recording industry on these matters. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Information in relation to individual candidates is not required to be supplied to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and, therefore, it is not available. 
Housing of Asian Refugees in Canberra  (Question No. 2142) 
I have already canvassed the Government's position on the amendment during the second reading debate, and I have nothing to add to that. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This is not a matter of the Government setting its face against amendment in some blind, unreasoning manner. I can assure the Committee that this matter and the arguments which have been put forward by  Senator Gietzelt  have been very carefully considered by both the Government and the Government parties. In the light of that very full consideration the Government does not propose to accept the amendment. I indicated some of the reasons for this in my reply at the end of the second reading debate but I will not repeat those comments here. I can assure  Senator Gietzelt  that the matters he raised have been canvassed and considered very fully by the Government and by Government members and senators. The determined notion was that we should maintain the position that is here advanced. 
Amendment negatived. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1979 
Bill agreed to. 
Bills reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The matter of the registration of titles has been a rather long running saga. The Northern Territory Government refused to register the titles on the basis of a difference of legal opinion between the Northern Territory and Commonwealth governmentsand, indeed, between the Northern Territory and the Aboriginal land owners- as to whether or not it was necessary to exclude certain additional roads from the titles. The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act requires the titles to exclude roads over which the public has a right of way. I think some five roads were excluded from the titles, and the argument of the Northern Territory Government is that additional roads should be excluded. That has been the subject of a series of discussions between the various interested parties. In Darwin recently I indicated to both the Northern Territory Government and to the land councils that I would propose to deal with the problem by removing the requirement that roads be specifically excluded, putting in its place a general exclusion. This would permit the titles to be registered. It would not solve the problem of precisely which roads should be excluded; that would be a matter which would have to be determined either by a discussion and agreement between the land councils and the Northern Territory Government or by litigation. The important thing is that the solution does not change the position of the parties but I think it would get over the technical problem of registering the titles. 
In respect of the second part of the honourable senator's question, I am not aware of any current attitude by the owners of land in Arnhem Land to refuse permits to residents of Gove. Certainly there was a period- some months ago- when there was a hold-up on permits, and that was eventually dealt with. The Northern Land Council had discussions with the traditional owners concerned and permits were eventually granted. If there has been a further outbreak of that problem, it has not been drawn to my attention. I will check with my Department to see whether there are any continuing problems. The control of access to land is central to the Aboriginal enjoyment of land. The Northern Territory Government has been co-operative in the sense that it has said that any roads which are opened through an agreement with the land councils and the Northern Territory Government will still be subject to a permit system. 1 think that that is an important safeguard which will be maintained by the Northern Territory Government. It will be subject to an appeal to the Administrator in Council but it will mean that there remains a control over general access. 
I recall hearing of a delegation which  Senator Kilgariff  led to the Minister for Transport on this subject. I also recall that he raised the matter in questions in the Senate at about the same time or perhaps a little before that time. I have some information from the Minister for Transport on the matter which the honourable senator has raised. I am advised that over recent months the Australian National Line has been pursuing a number of options which could make the operations of the  Darwin Trader  commercially viable. The option which held the best prospect of success was the possibility of the vessel being used to transport cement to Darwin from the southern States. 
The ANL has been actively negotiating with cement interests to secure this trade for the  Darwin Trader  but the Line has recently informed the Minister for Transport that these negotiations have been unsuccessful. In the light of this development ANL is examining its options for continuing the service on a commercial basis. But as the answer I have given indicates, there is still some uncertainty in this matter. 
I am aware of the advertisements to which the honourable senator refers. I think all senators and members were written to by the organising committee drawing our attention to those advertisements. There is something of very great value in the proposition that there should be agreement between Aboriginals and the governments that concern them so much about what are appropriate measures which are to be taken on their behalf. Some concern has been expressed about the concept of a treaty because of the implication that one is in some way talking about more than one Australia or more than one nation within Australia. I would share that concern if the proposal meant that. The honourable senator may not know that last week the executive of the National Aboriginal Conference, which is the elected body representing Aboriginal opinion around Australia, dealt with the proposal for a treaty. It preferred to deal with it on the basis of an Aboriginal word 'makarrata'. The word suggests an agreement between people after a dispute. 
The executive is dealing with it on the basis that Aboriginal people are Australian citizens with respect to whom the Commonwealth Government plays a very important role. The executive has established a sub-committee which will look at this proposition in more detail. It will consult with Aboriginal people and Aboriginal groups around Australia with a view to coming forward with some definite proposals. It has been made clear to me by members of the NAC that they do that as Australians within the Australian nation. I think that removes one of the fears that some people have had about the proposal. The Conference sees what it is doing as being a relatively long term proposition. It has set something like 1 8 months for the task it has undertaken. I have indicated to the Conference that the Government would be happy to consult with it on what it has proposed. Some time ago the Prime Minister indicated that he would be prepared to talk to the NAC at an appropriate time about what it has in mind. 
I think something of great value for Aboriginal people could be developing here. I think some of the negative aspects and fears that first appeared have been demolished by the Aboriginals themselves. I look forward to pursuing that line. 
The idea of arrangements with Aboriginals which have Aboriginal consent is one that the Government intends to pursue. There has already been extensive consultation with the Aboriginals in regard to legislation to be introduced shortly for the Aboriginal Development Commission. It is anticipated that there will be even more extensive consultation following the introduction of the Bill. I mention that because I think this is a pattern which governments in Australia- not only the Commonwealth Government- might well like to pursue in the future. 
-A little earlier in Question Time,  Senator Lewis  asked me a question about the treaty of commitment. I stumbled over an Aboriginal word, the Yolnu  word makarrata'. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a brief Press statement by the National Aboriginal Conference. I have not had a chance to show it to the Opposition. It sets out the position of the National Aboriginal Conference on this matter which I think would be of interest to honourable senators. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

At its meeting in Canberra the NAC Executive formed a committee to consult with Aboriginals and Aboriginal organisations on the proposed 'Makarrata' to be negotiated by the NAC with the Australian Government on behalf of the Aboriginal people. 
Makarrata' (Yolnu word for 'agreement') signifies the end of a dispute between communities and between a community and an offender and the resumption of normal relations. 
The committee will also consult with Aboriginals throughout Australia and prepare a submission to the Government on the Aboriginal Development Commission Bill which is to be introduced into Parliament soon. 
A submission will be forwarded to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for funds to allow the NAC committee to travel throughout Australia, commencing in March, 1 980 to determine from the Aboriginal population their views on what should be contained in the 'Makarrata' and on the ultimate structure of the Aboriginal Development Commission. 
The subcommittee anticipates that it will complete its Development Commission task during March, 1980. 
The 'Makarrata', however, is a longer term project and the NAC expects to take 18 months of discussion with Aboriginals and Aboriginal organisations and the Government before its final views are formulated. 12 November 1979 (Further information can be obtained from  Mr Lyall  Munro, National  Chairman,  NAC, 108 Gwyder Street, Moree. Telephone (067) 523 36 1 ). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

Honourable senators will recall that the creation of the Australian Federal Police was the central recommendation contained in the 'Report to the Minister for Administrative Services on the Organisation of Police Resources in the Commonwealth Area and Other Related Matters' by  Sir Robert  Mark. All honourable senators are aware that that recommendation has been embodied in the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 which received royal assent on 15 June 1979 and subsequently all provisions of this Act were proclaimed by  His Excellency,  the Governor-General in Council, on 19 October 1979, and the Australian Federal Police officially commenced operations on that date. 
The purpose of the Australian Federal Police (Consequential Amendments) Bill is to make amendments to existing Commonwealth legislation consequential to the enactment of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. These amendments are primarily aimed at changing references to Australian Federal Police from references to Commonwealth Police, as well as to preserve rights under the Officers ' Rights Declaration Act, where appropriate, to members of the Australian Federal Police. Specifically, this Bill provides for amendments to existing legislation, as set out in the Schedule to the Bill, to come into operation, or be deemed to have come into operation, on the date fixed for the coming into operation of the remaining provisions of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. As previously mentioned this date was 19 October 1979. 
The one exception to this, as set out in clause 2, sub-clause (2), amends sections 87 and 87J of the Public Service Act 1922, which are in relation to the preservation of rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act, which are to come into operation on the date of the commencement of section 32 of the Public Service Amendment Act 1978. This is in line with assurances that have been given by Ministers that jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members of the previous two police forces will not be at risk. In this instance, the amendments provide for the preservation by some former Commonwealth Police officers, who have been appointed to the Australian Federal Police, of their rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act in respect of their former service in the Australian Public Service. 
The Schedule sets out in detail those Acts which are to be amended consequential to the enactment of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. Apart from amending references from Commonwealth Police to the Australian Federal Police, they also provide consequential amendments to such Acts as the Superannuation Act, the Public Service Act and the Audit Act for reference to the Commissioner of Police and  Deputy  Commissioner of Police of the Australian Federal Police. I have arranged for an explanatory memorandum and notes on clauses to be distributed to all honourable senators. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

Honourable senators will be aware of the Government's policy to strengthen the parliamentary system and to enable Parliament adequately to review the activities of government administration. One facet of this process is the broadening of parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. As an early step the Government agreed to the establishment of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure on 29 April 1 976 in response to the need for a greater indepth examination of public expenditure in relation to effectiveness and economy in the delivery of given Government policy. As a further step the Bill now before honourable senators to amend the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951 is designed to strengthen the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts. 
In introducing the measures contained in this Bill, the Government's aim is to bring within the Committee's purview a range of statutory authorities and other governmental bodies currently subject to the Committee's examination only insofar as information on these bodies is contained in the Auditor-General's annual report or supplements to it. This is to be brought about by giving the Committee the power to examine, on its own initiative, the financial affairs of all statutory and other Government bodies. The only exceptions are to be the Northern Territory and the administrations of the external Territories, and inter-governmental bodies. The Government had decided that in view of the changed and changing relationships between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory, and the external Territories, the financial affairs of their present and future administrations should not be subject to scrutiny by the Committee. Expenditure incurred by Commonwealth departments in the Territories would continue to be subject to scrutiny by the Committee. The Bill provides for a special procedure with respect to bodies jointly established by the Commonwealth with the Government of a State or States or with another country. In these cases, it would clearly be inappropriate for these bodies to be subject to examination by a committee of this Parliament without the express agreement of all the governments concerned. Where such agreement is forthcoming, however, the Committee will be able to examine the financial affairs of such bodies. A further development in the Committee's role is provided for in the Bill by enabling the Committee to examine special reports made to Parliament by the Auditor-General. 
Currently, the Committee is not empowered to examine reports to Parliament by the AuditorGeneral outside his annual report or supplements to it. In particular, the Government believes that when the Auditor-General makes a report to Parliament on the results of any efficiency audit, the matters contained therein should be examinable by the Committee. Henceforth, the information contained in all reports of the Auditor-General transmitted to the Parliament would be subject to the Committee's scrutiny, except insofar as the Territories and intergovernmental bodies are concerned. The opportunity has also been taken to introduce certain measures to improve the operations of the Committee. Sometimes the Committee has experienced difficulties in forming a quorum because many of its members are also members of other parliamentary committees. It is therefore proposed to reduce the quorum from six members to four members. This proposal is in line with recommendations made by the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System in relation to certain other committees. A further provision would remove the present restriction on the number of sectional committeescurrently not more than two- that can exist at the same time. The change would enable more enquiries to be held simultaneously. For some time the legal position with respect to the Committee's power to meet anywhere in Australia and to sit during a parliamentary recess has not been clear. Amendments to the Bill have been included to remove these doubts. It is perhaps noteworthy that the Public Works Committee has both of these powers, and the Government believes that the same powers should be conferred on the Public Accounts Committee. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gietzelt)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank the Senate for its consideration of this legislation. I indicate to the Opposition that the Government does not propose to accept the amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Gietzelt.  I doubt that the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill provides the appropriate opportunity to debate in detail the adequacy of post-graduate awards. I can assure the Senate that the Government is aware of the sorts of views which have been expressed by  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Opposition. Substantial representations have been made by postgraduate students and supporters of postgraduate students over the earlier part of this year in the lead-up to the Federal Budget. Indeed, there have also been meetings with, as well as written representations to,  Senator Carrick  and me. Some time ago the Government indicated that it did not propose to change these awards for 1980. I have recently responded to further representations on the matter, indicating that the views put forward by the representorsthey are the same views as those put forward by  Senator Gietzelt  today- will be examined by the Government again next year in the course of its consideration of expenditure for the following financial year. 
The amendment the Opposition intends to move in relation to this legislation certainly is the sort of amendment put forward by oppositions and not by governments. Essentially, it proposes to extend the jurisdiction of the Academic Salaries Tribunal into the area of student awards, and that is a proposition which I do not believe any government is likely to embrace with any enthusiasm. The number of student awards provided by government is fairly considerable. The number of post-graduate awards is a relatively small part of the whole. The Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme assists a much larger number of students. I suppose that one might argue on a future occasion that they also ought to be given consideration by a salaries tribunal rather than being treated as student allowances. But it is the view of the Government that these are essentially student allowances and that they should remain to be determined by the Government as part of its Budget process. 
I think it needs to be remembered in this situation that the people who are receiving these awards, who are in general receiving substantially less than they would receive in employment, are in fact in the process of obtaining senior qualifications which will stand them in good stead in the future. They are improving their ability to do senior work and they are, in character, students. Obviously at times it involves a degree of sacrifice and that is something which has traditionally been associated with people who are students. Representations are frequently made pointing out that one perhaps can get more on the unemployment benefit than one can get as an assisted student in different circumstances. The fact of the matter is that people who are engaged in study, either as undergraduates or as graduates, are improving their position in a way that a person who is unemployed or seeking employment and is unable to find it might envy. I think that some false parallels are drawn in this area. 

 Senator Gietzelt put some figures before the Senate on the Government's performance in respect of post-graduate students. I had not seen them before he put them before the Senate, but as he has done so I accept that they are accurate. I simply put some other figures which indicate the general comparability of the position now with the history of the matter. The increase in the consumer price index from June 1976 to June 1979 was 33 per cent. The awards were adjusted in 1977 to effect the following changes: In 1976 a scholar received an award of $3,250. The award is now $4,200 a year, which is an increase of 29 per cent. In 1976 a scholar with a dependent spouse received $4,030. The award for such a person is now $5,833 a year, which is an increase of 45 per cent. In 1976 a scholar with a dependent spouse and one dependent child received $4,394. The award for such a person now is $6,223 a year which is an increase of 42 per cent. Even allowing for the approximate rate of inflation to June of next year predicted in the Budget, there has been, at a minimum, a maintenance of the value of the awards over that period. 
I do not wish and I have no power to pre-empt the view the Government will take in the future about the level of these awards. I close by stating that the Government acknowledges the representations that it has received and the views which have been put about what the appropriate level of the awards should now be. The Government does not propose to put the level of these awards within the jurisdiction of the Academic Salaries Tribunal. The Tribunal makes recommendations only in respect of the amounts to be paid to academics rather than research students, and on that basis it would be a change to the character of the Tribunal to accept the amendment which is to be proposed by the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I thank the Senate for its consideration of the Remuneration and Allowances Bill. I have noted the comments made by  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Opposition. This is one of the more difficult areas of activity for the Parliament when we come to the point of having to consider our own conditions of work. The previous Government, I think, instituted the Remuneration Tribunal, which took some of the difficulty out of this area by having an independent report to the Parliament which takes effect in the absence of some contrary action by the Parliament. It should be noted that this Bill exercises a degree of restraint right accross the range of parliamentary and government emoluments. In my view, it is not a case of the Government's having made fish of one and fowl of another. 
I think the Bill would have widespread support in the community in the sense that it ensures that the rises in salary which are afforded to everybody from the Prime Minister on, or down, according to one's point of view, are no more and no less than in line with the rises which have been received by wage and salary earners in Australia who have had the benefits of indexation. I think, in that sense, that the Bill would have very widespread support in the community. It is important to note that not only are you,  Mr President,  put under some restraint in the matter, as was mentioned in the debate a few minutes ago, but also every Minister and office bearer of the Government is affected, as are the office bearers of the Opposition. I simply voice my personal support for the concept that the Parliament should exercise the same restraint as it urges upon the citizens of Australia. I think it is entirely appropriate that the Government in particular, having taken the view before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that there should be restraint in this area, should impose the same rules upon itself. 
A number of points have been raised by the Opposition in this debate. I will touch on them very briefly. Firstly, concern was expressed by  Senator Gietzelt  about restrictions on the number of staff available to the Opposition. I can only say that, if we look at the position as it applied when the now Opposition was in government, we find that there now is, in fact, a more generous provision of staff for the Opposition than then existed. There are 44 positions available to the Opposition now- that is, of course, apart from the individual entitlement of senators and members to two personal staff eachwhereas only 38 staff positions were shared by the coalition parties when we were in Opposition. On the other hand, if one looks to the Government position, Ministers of the present Government are provided with 198 positions compared with 244 positions during the period of the Whitlam Government. So once again the Government has shown restraint in its own staffing of its ministerial offices whilst, at the same time, permitting an expansion of the positions available to the Opposition. The figure of 40 which was referred to- I am not quite clear- 
-Oh, the 40 overnight stays. I thank the honourable senator for that reminder. I can only conclude that the original recommendation from the Remuneration Tribunal related to the 40 days spent in the wilderness in biblical times. I suspect that the extension to the permanent wilderness that is sought by the Opposition is something that we should all resist. However, I can clear up one point.  Senator Gietzelt  suggested that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  hates the Opposition. I would hasten to assure  Senator Gietzelt  that the Prime Minister thinks the Opposition is the finest possible Opposition the country could have. All members of the coalition parties are united in that view. We intend to ensure that members of the Opposition maintain the high standards of Opposition that they have maintained for about 27 of the last 30 years in the Australian Parliament. 
The Bills also affect the Whips. I think it should be noted that, in fact, under the provisions which these Bills will permit, for the first time the Whips in both the Senate and the House of Representatives will receive an allowance as part of their emoluments. I think that is most appropriate. In fact, it is a view which I expressed to the Tribunal last year when I ceased to be Government Whip. I think it has been an anomaly that no provision has been made for the Whips until the present. The Government has acknowledged that and Opposition members will see that on this occasion the Whips in both chambers will be receiving, as part of their emoluments, an expense allowance. The complaint has been made on behalf of the Whips in the Senate- and an amendment is to be moved to cover this complaint- that they have been discriminated against because there is no provision for a daily allowance while Parliament is not sitting. I understand that, in fact, no submission was made to the Tribunal seeking that allowance for Senate Whips. Although I can see that there is not necessarily any logical distinction to be drawn between the House of Representatives and the Senate in this matter, the fact is that the Tribunal has instituted the proposal for the House of Representatives Whips and has not made any recommendation for the Senate Whips. I would suggest that the appropriate course is for interested senators to make submissions to the Remuneration Tribunal with respect to the Senate Whips to demonstrate- 
-Have they done that now? 
-Senator Peter Baume, who is usually well informed on all matters, seems to be well informed on this matter also. I am assured that that has been done. The Government regards that as a matter which now should be left to the Tribunal to determine next year. I thank the Senate for its consideration of this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bills read a second time. 
In Committee 
I have noted the comments made by honourable senators about the various salaries with which they are concerned. In response, I would like to make a couple of brief comments. I preface those comments by saying that I have no doubt at all in my mind that the public of Australia would regard it as being part of the duty of this Government to impose the same rules of restraint on itself and on those positions for which it has the clear ability to control the increases received as it has sought to impose on the wage and salary earners of Australia for the good of Australia. I make no apology to the Senate on behalf of the Government for the view which has been adopted. 
As far as the Government's attitude to the Executive as against the Parliament is concerned, 
I suggest to honourable senators that an examination of the facts will show that the Government has been as hard, if not harder, on the Executive- on itself- as it has been on any other offices being dealt with in these determinations. If honourable senators refer to paragraph 22 of the Remuneration Tribunal 1979 Review they will find a useful guide to that. The Tribunal reports: 
On this occasion no minister sought an increase in additional ministerial salary. It was, however, strenuously represented by others that the additional salaries of Ministers are grossly inadequate, the margin above the salary of a private member having been heavily eroded since the early 1960s. 
I interpolate that those honourable senators who have been here for a long time would be aware of the relatively high ministerial salary, compared with the rate of normal pay, which existed at that time. In fact, during the last 15 years there has been a substantial reduction in the margin received by Ministers, both Cabinet and nonCabinet, compared with that received by honourable senators and honourable members. 
Parliamentary officers have been treated in exactly the same way as the Government has treated itself. There has been no distinction. For example, we find that the  President  of the Senate, who has been specifically referred to in the debate by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and by  Senator Jessop,  currently receives a salary of $10,500. The Tribunal determined that he should receive $12,816, which represents a 22 per cent increase. In fact, as was indicated in the second reading speech, the Government has applied the same percentage increase across the board in order to arrive at an increased salary of $11,269. That is precisely the salary that is proposed for a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet. It is true that a margin above that sum would be payable to a Minister in the Cabinet, who would receive a salary of $12,61 1 following the passage of this legislation. But the Government faced the fact that the Tribunal made a series of recommendations, some of which involved increases that were well outside the indexation increases permitted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In the case of the Presiding Officers, the increase amounted to 22 per cent, in the case of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives 34 per cent, in the case of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate 1 10 per cent and so on. Each has been treated in the same way. The percentage increase granted has been in the order of 7 per cent, equivalent to the indexation increase. 
The other point to which I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators is that, in a number of respects, officers who perform functions in the Parliament have received new allowances under these determinations, which have been agreed to by the Government. As I mentioned earlier, for the first time the Whips are to receive an allowance. The  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, and the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, who formerly did not receive allowances, are each to receive an allowance of $590. Thus, those officers have received an allowance where previously none was paid. In each case I would argue that clearly those payments are warranted. They represent novel payments which I believe are not consistent with the view expressed by honourable senators that in some way the Government is seeking to denegrate the Parliament. I say quite clearly to the Committee that it is not in the mind of the Government to reduce the apparent influence of the Parliament; rather, it seeks to set an example to the community with respect to government and parliamentary salaries and wages and to increase them to the same extent as the increases that have been provided for other wage and salary earners in Australia. Each of us has great difficulty in assessing how much he is worth to the community. I think it sits well in our mouths to be modest, because I suspect that if the amounts that were to be paid to us were to be determined by the electorate we might find that we would be living rather more leanly than we are at present. 
No, this is the new testament. This document is a post- 1975 document. It is after the resurrection. In 1973-74 the previous Government, supported by  Senator Gietzelt,  had something to say about cost recovery. The Treasurer of that Government made two major statements on cost recovery in his 1973-74 Budget Speech. He said: 
We propose to increase the rate of recovery of the costs of civil aviation to 80 per cent within five years. 
Of course by now we would be well beyond the current rate of cost recovery if that policy had been fulfilled. Paragraph 1 1.2.7 of the review report states: 
In relation to cost recovery the Transport Policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties for the 1975 elections stated, amongst other things, 'We will defer the further implementation of the . . . cost recovery program until proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery programs for other forms of transport have been made '. 
In fact, we have not achieved the level of cost recovery which was promised by the Labor Party in 1973-74. The other item to which I wish to refer is the Table 1 1.2 at page 88 of that report. This table sets out the figures for the 1976-77 period. A recovery rate there ranges from 122.9 per cent for international operation; 75.9 per cent for domestic trunk; rural airlines 27.4 per cent; commuter 6.8 per cent; and general aviation 14 percent. 
-This is for the year 1 976-77. So in fact there is a relatively low level of cost recovery. It is in that context that the Government does not accept that amendment which has been put forward by the Opposition during this debate. 
The level of cost recovery from general aviation is such that we have a growing deficit. In 1974-75 the deficit was $36.9m. For the year 1979-80 the deficit is estimated at about $76m. With a 20 per cent increase in air navigation charges the recovery rate for 1979-80 is expected to be about 15 per cent in the combined commuter and other general aviation section. There is an extremely low level of cost recovery in that section. The increase does not prejudge the general aviation study which is being undertaken by the Department of Transport at the direction of the Government. The primary purpose of this study is to achieve higher levels of cost recovery in the various sub sectors of general aviation on a more equitable and efficient basis. The study team in making its recommendations is to take account of ability to pay. It is expected that these recommendations will be available to the Government in March 1980. I have no doubt that next year we will see the results which will flow from that study. 

 Senator MacGibbon made a couple of points to which I would like to refer. He expressed concern- as did  Senator Collard-  about a number of technical points. For example, both senators referred to the weight of aircraft. 1 confess that those matters are beyond my competence, but I will ensure that those remarks are drawn to the attention of the Department and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for consideration. However,  Senator MacGibbon  expressed concern about the fact that general aviation had no channel of communication with the Government. I am advised that general aviation representatives consult regularly with the Minister and the Department of Transport, both on an informal basis and through the Aviation Industry Advisory Council and the Council's committees and sub-committees which have reviewed matters such as cost recovery allocations, flying training and rental and leasing policies. I am sure that the wish of the Government would be to be in close touch with all sections of the aviation industry. If the general aviation industry does not feel that it has adequate communication with the Government it should itself take action through the Advisory Council or, if this does not produce satisfactory action, pursue direct representation to the Government to ensure that its message will get through. 

 Senator MacGibbon made reference to his dissatisfaction with the biennial flight review and indicated that since it had been instituted the number of accidents had worsened. I assume that those comments related to Australia? 
In the United States? 
Then my puzzlement has increased. My attention has been drawn to the International Civil Aviation Organisation 's bulletin  General Aviation  of August 1979 and to an article therein by  Mr Malcolm  S. Harned, Senior Vice-president of Technology, Cessna Aircraft Company of the United States. On page 1 6 of the bulletin reference is made to the biennial flight review in these terms: 
Fatality rates were increasing with the growth of the fleet until they were dramatically reduced by the institution of the Biennial Flight Review in 1 974. It is also promising that with almost twice the number of aeroplanes in the field today, the fatalities per year are less than they were eight years ago, which is a tribute to the success of the Biennial flight Review. 
That does not tell us anything about the rate of accidents, merely the rate of fatalities, but I draw the attention of the honourable senator and the Senate to it and to the accompanying graph, which shows that since 1974 there has been a steep drop in both fatal accidents and fatalities. There has been a gradual increase over a period of some five years but that has occurred during a period of considerable growth in aircraft numbers. The figure has increased from 46,000 in 1970 to 81,000 in 1979. 1 commend the article to the honourable senator for study. If he feels that it contains matters that are particularly relevant to Australian aviation, I invite him to pass on those views to the Minister and to the Department. 1 commend the Bill to the Senate. As I indicated earlier, the Government does not accept the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I have some information which answers the questions raised by the honourable senator. I am advised that provision is made in the Budget for additional revenue from air navigation charges in 1978-79 of $7.6m from the domestic airlines and $.8m from general aviation. The 25 per cent increase in air navigation charges for domestic airlines is estimated to return the Commonwealth $3. 7m of this revenue and growth in airline operations a further $3. 9m. The 20 per cent increase in air navigation charges for general aviation operators is estimated to return the Commonwealth $.4m and growth in operations a further $.4m. 
I do not have the overall figures but I have available some figures relating to the air navigation charges paid per passenger for all international airlines operating to and from Australia from 1969 to 1978. They are interesting figures. They relate to the section of traffic which in fact has more than 100 per cent cost recovery. There is a considerable impost on that section of operations. The figures show that in constant money terms air navigation charges paid per passenger have declined. In 1969 the amount was $7.4 per passenger and the estimate I have for 1978 is $14.1 per passenger. In constant dollar terms that is $6.2 in 1969 values. So although there have been the sorts of substantial increases which have been referred to by the honourable senator in his speech to the Committee, if one takes into account the change in money values over the period of which we are talking, the position is a little different from the position if one simply takes dollar amounts. 
I do not think there is anything else that I can usefully add to those comments.  Senator Townley  has taken a constant interest in the area of policy. He has certainly raised on prior occasions a number of the matters which he has brought forward today; for example, the defence element in these matters. I think that it is within his knowledge that some of these views have already received the consideration of the Government. However, I will ensure that the contents of his remarks are sent to the Department for further consideration. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) These questions are not related to the responsibilities of my Department. 
and (5)  Mr Pratt  was engaged by the Northern Land Council, not by the Commonwealth Government, and questions about fees paid to him might be addressed to the Council. 
Electoral: Inclusion of Party Affiliations on Ballot Papers  (Question No. 2121) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not for me to comment on whether or not a paper has been prepared for the South Australian Liberal Party. 
As far as State election laws are concerned these are matters for State Governments and Parliaments. 
No changes to federal legislation are proposed to be put forward on this subject in the immediate future. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
1 ) That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to establish an Aboriginal Development Commission, and to provide for related matters. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Bonner  from moving motions relating to the first, second and third readings of the Bill. 
I am aware of the petition that has been mentioned by the honourable senator, so he need not bother to provide me with a copy of it. In fact, by some odd process I have the original. The  Chairman  of the Yarrabah Council sent the original to me, although it is addressed to  Mr Porter,  and a copy to  Mr Porter.  I have had my staff check the petition and find that it does contain 344 signatures, which purport to be those of 344 electors of the community of Yarrabah. I welcome the petition because of the information that was put before the Senate by  Senator Keeffe  on 6 November. As some honourable senators will recall, he made a speech which indicated that a petition had been taken up suggesting that the Council at Yarrabah should be dismissed. I assume that the petition now referred to is something, of a counter to that. The petition to which  Senator Keeffe  referred was said to contain 417 signatures, 387 of which had been verified as being those of residents of Yarrabah. The petition that I have received has 344 signatures and carries a promise of more to come. The two petitions are a little confusing because I think that, in each case, they take in more than half of the electors. Presumably, there is some explaining to be done somewhere. 
The sincerity of the Yarrabah Council is a matter of some importance. In January it petitioned the Commonwealth Government for support. It has shown a great steadiness and reasonableness in its approach to various matters. I suppose that its standing in the community was tested in June when at least one of the councillors, Stan Connolly, resigned. He was re-elected by a very substantial majority. I regarded that as an indication of community support for the Council. As far as the last part of the honourable senator's question is concerned, I will continue to negotiate. I have undertaken to visit Yarrabah again next week. I anticipate doing that in the company of Queensland Ministers, as undertaken last September. 
The short answer to that question is no. I have had a message from the Minister for Administrative Services today saying that he expects to give me a reply very shortly. I must say that having looked more carefully at the question asked by the honourable senator, it appears to me that it raises matters that go directly to evidence given in the case and may give rise to questions or arguments about credibility. I think the question is one which cannot be answered in any detail at this stage. 
I would certainly want to give the honourable senator an answer to his question before the Parliament rises, and I hope that that is this week. That does not change the reply which I gave before the supplementary question. One can imagine a series of questions being asked which could parallel the whole of the evidence in the case which is at present before the court, and is likely to be before the court for some time. It is a serious matter. I certainly undertake to the honourable senator and the Senate to examine very carefully the answer that is given to me to ensure that, if the matter is one that gives rise to the sub judice rule, the answer gives that and no more. 
I think this is the third time the honourable senator has asked me this question. On the two occasions that I sought an answer from  Mr Staley,  his reply was that he has the matter under consideration. Since neither the honourable senator nor I has heard anything further, I can only assume that that is still the position. I have had no indication from  Mr Staley  that the news announced recently about the bid by News Ltd has led him to contemplate the action which was suggested by the honourable senator or indeed any other action that might be advocated- an amendment to the Act or whatever. 
I move: , 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

In consequence of the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs and to give the Australian Federal Police all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries, certain consequential amendments need to be made to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1979 provides that the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation or an officer authorised by him may communicate information relating to narcotics offences to officers of Customs and information relating to serious criminal offences to officers of Police. 
This Bill amends the principal Act to provide that information relating to narcotics offences may only be communicated to members or special members of the Australian Federal Police. As far as information relating to serious criminal offences is concerned the Bill replaces the reference to the Commonwealth Police Force with a reference to the Australian Federal Police. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mcintosh)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1979-80 In Committee 
Consideration resumed from 20 November. Schedule 2. 
Perhaps I should indicate that the motion is in the form of a request to the Government for consideration of the matter. The Government can see no reason why that request should not be taken on board and given consideration. 
A number of points have been raised on the estimates on which I can touch upon. Firstly, in respect to matters raised by  Senator Cavanagh,  I am not in a position to give him the cost of the changes which are envisaged. Indeed. I have no information as to what point they are at precisely. I am surprised at  Senator Cavanagh  's surprise that there should be a second South Australian Minister or indeed a South Australian Prime Minister in due course. I would have though that with the talent on the Government side from South Australia that sort of thing would have struck him as a matter of course. I will make some inquiries for him. I must say that I am sympathetic to  Senator Cavanagh  's spending his last days undisturbed. As he spoke I had visions of a man in a cottage with a super highway threatening his position, with the thought that the road might be put around him. I am sympathetic that, after a long career in this Parliament.  Senator Cavanagh  should not waste some months of that time remaining to him in reorganising himself in a new office. I will certainly raise the matter with  Mr John  McLeay and endeavour to ensure that  Senator Cavanagh  has a quiet time. As far as the matters raised about the secretariat by, I think,  Senator McLaren  or was it  Senator Cavanagh  - 
-Yes, there is a staff provision for the Government parties. In all there are five positions. One is at the level of assistant private secretary and four at the level of stenosecretary, grade 1. Does  Senator McLaren  want the salary scales? 
They are the positions. I am advised that they do not carry any travel rights. They are available to the parties only here in Canberra. 
The matters raised by the honourable senator do not arise out of these estimates and do not call for a reply this morning. 
This matter or similar matters have been raised in the chamber before by  Senator Maunsell  who has shown his great concern for those remoter areas of Queensland which are not getting a signal from the major commercial stations. I agree with him that, now that Australia's cricket team is back in one piece and with those two visiting teams in Australia, it is likely that we will have a particularly interesting season of great interest to people right round Australia. I will pass on the request that  Senator Maunsell  has made to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I can report to him that, as  Mr Staley  has stated on a number of occasions over the last few weeks when the matter has been raised by  Senator Maunsell  and by honourable senators opposite, some of whom were indicating their interest a few moments ago, the Government is particularly concerned that not all Australians will be able to see the various matches programmed and is actively continuing its efforts to ensure that these relatively recent developments in the granting of exclusive television rights to various television stations do not unduly prejudice the long history of widespread coverage of sporting events. 

 Mr Staley has made this point in answer to a number of questions in recent weeks. He wants to emphasise that the Government is not convinced that some of the arguments put forward, such as those put forward by  Senator Ryan,  for example, relating to the provision of additional funds to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, are soundly based, although the Government would, if the ABC were to put forward any such specific request for funds, as always, be prepared to consider seriously such a request.  Mr Staley  has indicated on a number of occasions that the Government is committed to the view, which I emphasise again on his behalf, that all parties to these arrangements should review their respective roles. It is only through a co-operative effort between the parties that the solution which 

 Senator Maunsell and others are seeking on behalf of country people will eventuate. In conclusion, I might say that I now have a reply to the question which was addressed to me bv  Senator McClelland  some time ago, and I will give that to him at the end of Question Time. 
-On 8 November 1979  Senator Douglas  McClelland sought advice on the possible use of section 64 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 to enable the Australian Broadcasting Commission to televise sporting events declared to be in the national interest. At the time I said that although I was not offering a legal opinion I thought it was stretching the point a little to suggest that that section of the Act could be used in that way. The advice that I have been able to obtain since then confirms that preliminary response. I am advised by the office of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that if the television rights to a particular sporting event are not held by the ABC the Minister could not direct the ABC under this section to provide a coverage. The suggestion is described as another example of the somewhat simplistic solutions which have been canvassed in recent times. 
This matter is obviously of concern to a number of members of this Parliament, as is evidenced by the rash of questions which  Mr Staley  and I have received in recent weeks. The Government fully appreciates the concern that is shown by those questions and is seeking a solution to the problem. I make the point again that it is not just a matter of funds. As I said in answer to questions from  Senator Maunsell  both this week and last week, the solution requires cooperation between the organisations which grant the rights, the commercial network which secures the rights, and the ABC.  Mr Staley  is committed to the view that the co-operative approach offers the only real solution. 
I said that I was not giving a legal opinion. 
-On 14 November 1979 I was asked a question by  Senator Keeffe  about the Community Development Employment Projects Scheme currently being funded in the Northern Territory. I undertook to provide him with some further information. Three CDEPS projects are currently being funded in the Northern Territory, details of which are as follows: One at Bamyili on which $300,000 will be expended this financial year; one at Guliwinku on which $400,000 will be expended this financial year; and one at Milingimbi on which the expenditure will be $115,500. The Milingimbi project has only been in operation for six months. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate the second reading speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. In the light of this interim report, the Government has concluded that the Australian Federal Police should be given all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries. Parliament recently conferred the power on officers of Customs to use listening devices under warrant of a judge. This power now needs to be transferred to members of the Australian Federal Police subject to the same safeguards and limits as now apply in relation to officers of Customs. This Bill therefore provides for amendments to the Customs Act to empower members of the Australian Federal Police, instead of officers of Customs, to use, under the warrant of a judge, listening devices in respect of narcotics offences. 
The Government has given considerable thought to the safeguards and limitations to apply to the granting and exercise of the powers to be conferred by this amendment on members of Australian Federal Police. These safeguards and limitations will be: A judge of the Federal Court or a Supreme Court must be satisfied by information on oath as to the justification for issue of a warrant; information obtained by use of the device may only be used for narcotics inquiries; there is a prohibition on communication except in strictly limited circumstances; these concern very serious criminal offences and security matters; the Commissioner will be required to report to the Minister not only on the use made of the information but also whether, and if so to whom, the information is communicated; the Minister may, under subsection 13(6) of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979, call for a report of the Commissioner on the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police in so far as use of listening devices is involved. The Bill also amends the provisions enacted earlier this year for recovery of pecuniary penalties to enable a member of the Australian Federal Police, as well as an officer of Customs, to give expert evidence in the relevant proceedings. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mcintosh)  adjourned.  (Quorum formed). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to implement in substance the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. In the light of this interim report, the Government has concluded that the Australian Federal Police should be given all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries. Parliament recently conferred the power on officers of Customs to intercept telecommunications and inspect telegrams under warrant of a judge. This power now needs to be transferred to members of the Australian Federal Police subject to the same safeguards and limits as now apply in relation to officers of Customs. This Bill therefore provides for amendments to the Telecommunications (Interception) Act to empower members of the Australian Federal Police, instead of officers of Customs, to intercept telecommunications and inspect telegrams, under the warrant of a judge, for the purposes of investigations in respect of narcotics offences. 
The Government has given considerable thought to the safeguards and limitations to apply to the granting and exercise of the powers to be conferred by this amendment on members of the Australian Federal Police. These safeguards and limitations will be as follows: A judge of the Federal Court or a supreme court must be satisfied by information on oath as to the justification for issue of a warrant; information obtained by the interception or inspection may only be used for narcotics inquiries; there is a prohibition on communication except in strictly limited circumstances- these concern very serious criminal offences and security matters; the Commissioner will be required to report to the Minister not only on the use made of the information but also whether, and if so to whom, the information is communicated; and the Minister may, under sub-section 13(6) of the Australian Federal Police Act 1 979 call for a report of the Commissioner on the performance of the functions of the Australian Federal Police in so far as the interception of telecommunications and inspection of telegrams is involved. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mcintosh)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Chairman, I will deal firstly with the matters raised by  Senator Wriedt.  The answers I have been given on those four questions are as follows. The first question is not a matter which comes within the jurisdiction of the Department of Transport. I am advised that it is part of the Bureau of Meteorology and I therefore do not have a specific answer on that request. I will seek a response on that point from the appropriate Minister. The same applies to the second question. With regard to the third question, the Maatsuyker light station is not automatic and is still manned. With respect to Tasman Island, since automation in March 1977 there have been 33 trips to Tasman Island, including scheduled and non-scheduled trips. The approximate cost for each trip is $500. With respect to the fourth question, the total cost of automation of the light station was $80,000. 
A number of honourable senators on the Opposition side have made general remarks in the course of the discussion of the estimates for the Department of Transport relating to the value or otherwise of Estimates committees. I would simply say in response that I find the comment somewhat surprising. I would think that the Estimates committees have achieved both for the Senate and the Parliament the delivery by the Executive Government to the Parliament of a great mass of detailed information which in the past was not available. I have in front of me the material which has been made available for the consideration of the Committee with respect to four of the departments. I lift with a sense of wonder- not only that I can still lift it but also because of its size- the information provided by the Department of Administrative Services. The whole point is that quite frankly I do not think that the Executive Government is deeply concerned if the Senate takes it on itself to say that the procedure of the Estimates committees is not of value. It seems to me that this was a reform that was brought about by the Senate, by the Parliament itself and it has resulted in a much greater opportunity to give public scrutiny to the affairs of the Executive Government. I would have thought that the value or otherwise was something that could be very simply determined by the Senate and if the Senate determined to do away with the procedure, that would be a matter for it and not for the Government. 

 Senator Townley made a number of points which challenged some of the recently considered and confirmed policies of government. I do not think I can do any more with respect to the question of cost recovery which was raised by both  Senator Townley  and  Senator MacGibbon  than to say that I have heard what they had to say. The matter has had consideration by governments over a period; as  Senator Townley  himself said, by governments of different complexions. The Government recently affirmed that it is seeking cost recovery on a basis which has been announced. I note the honourable senator's comments. They will be drawn to the attention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon ). 
With respect to such matters as the location of the Department and the restoration of a separate Department of Civil Aviation, once again these are matters which have been canvassed by government and I can do no more than draw them to the attention of the Minister. The cost of individual routes which was raised by  Senator Townley  is a matter which he has canvassed in the Estimates committees and on other occasions in this chamber. Some of the difficulties have been explained; for example, the need to make allocations of the expenses of say, Melbourne, given the various groups that make use of it and so on. The matters that he has raised here again this morning have received a fair amount of consideration. We have not yet got to the stage where the cost details that the honourable senator has sought are available. Quite obviously any such breakdown of route costs will involve judgments and to some extent any allocation of costs will have to be arbitrary. So, one could achieve probably different results according to the proportion of the costs one chooses to attribute to particular routes. 
The flying training matter was raised by a whole series of senators starting with  Senator Townley  who referred to the information already provided by the Government in the explanatory material made available following the Estimates Committee hearing. I think that the simple point which is made in that information is that training in Australia will be significantly more expensive than in the United States. The facts are set out in the material. At a time when there is considerable concern about the overall costs, it is understandable that the United States option is adopted. There is a significant difference in costs. 

 Senator Bishop, Senator Jessop and  Senator McLaren  raised the question of the Stuart Highway. We have heard those honourable senators speak on that topic before. I think that what was illustrated by the speech of  Senator McLaren  in particular is that he does not embarrass easily. We have had a series of complaints about the Stuart Highway. The present position is that there is an expanded program of works on that highway. The period within which the work is to be completed has been reduced. I think it is quite clear that the Commonwealth Government has been able to tackle this matter with the new Government of South Australia in a way which appears to be a lot more satisfactory. The question which was raised by  Senator Bishop  and to which I want to respond was, I think misunderstood by  Senator McLaren.  I think that he misunderstood what was said by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Jessop. Senator Bishop  really put an inquiry to me. He said that statements had been made in a Press release and at a meeting that he attended but he wanted a statement to be made in this Parliament. I understand that he was seeking confirmation of the fact that there would be no payments outside the payments which are made to the States under the States Grants (Roads) Act. 
The honourable senator was querying the position.  Senator McLaren  interpreted what  Senator Bishop  was saying as being that the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  had made representations that additional funds would be provided. The point  Senator Jessop  was making and the point I understood  Senator Bishop  to be making was that  Mr Nixon  simply indicated that as a vigorous Minister for Transport he would be seeking in the Budget discussions the maximum possible allocation for roads. If he gets a larger allocation for roads more money will be available for national roads and hence it follows that the Stuart Highway is likely to be better dealt with. The letter which was read out by  Senator McLaren  answers the query that was put by  Senator Bishop.  I do no more than repeat the third paragraph of the letter read out by  Senator McLaren. Mr Nixon,  in a letter dated 20 November, stated: 
It is not the policy of the Federal Government to make special road allocations outside the provisions of the States Grants (Roads) Act. The strategy adopted by the Commonwealth has been to apportion priorities to achieve a balanced development of a National Highways System taking into account both Commonwealth and State objectives. 
Like  Senator McLaren  I am sure that all honourable senators will watch the completion of the Stuart Highway with interest. We all feel even if we have never driven on it that we know it very well. The matter has been raised often in this chamber. I hope that in the light of the debate I have heard about it, I am able to be there for the final cutting of the ribbon or whatever formal acts are undertaken at the opening. 
The second point raised by  Senator Bishop  on which he sought a response related to the possibility of the purchase of the Airbus. He asked whether this gave rise to problems with Boeing and the Australian manufacturing program which Boeing has either undertaken or has in mind. I have sought advice on the matter since the honourable senator spoke. My understanding is that there is no indication that the question of the Airbus purchase has interfered with the Boeing plans. My attention has been drawn and I draw the Senate's attention to a media release by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  of 3 August 1979. 1 am advised that the information set out and the program indicated in that Press release is still proceeding in the terms envisaged in the release. 
-That is right. I had seen public reports rather than departmental reports indicating that the Australian manufacturing program was proceeding. My departmental advice now is that there is no upset to the programs which have been in planning to this point. The Government has no indication that the concern which the honourable senator expressed is based on fact. That is the most I can say at this stage. 
I have already dealt with  Senator Jessop  's comments on the Stuart Highway, I hope to his satisfaction. He also raised the question of rail standardisation. There is no proposal at the moment that the line he mentioned should be delat with. It is not a matter which is currently before us for decision. It has been put aside for the time being. I will refer  Senator Jessop  's views on the matter to the Minister for Transport. I pick up in that context the comments of  Senator Kilgariff  which touched the more northerly section of the line. I confirm that a Commonwealth and Northern Territory Government study is under way. I think it is hoped that that study will be completed by Christmas but both governments are of the view that completing the right study is more important than the exact timing. Once the study is completed the two governments will have to consult about the question of further standardisation north. 
I have dealt in part with  Senator McLaren's  comments. I will pick up at this point- a number of honourable senators raised it- the problem of programming and the complaints about it. It appears to me that at the end of each period of sittings since 1 have been here for the last 5 '/a years there has been a problem towards the last week or fortnight of the period of sittings. I believe that both the previous Government and this Government have tried to obviate that problem. The pressure at the end of the session puts all of us in some difficulty. I am not trying to score any points. I am simply saying that it seems to be a common problem at the close of a parliamentary session that we come under greater pressure than any of us would wish. I can say only that we try to avoid that in our programming. For the last three or four years there has been a very concerted attempt in this chamber to provide the Opposition with a regular preview of what the following week will hold. There has been a high degree of co-operation at the level of the Whips and the leaders with respect to programming. If at times it does not match our convenience, the inconvenience is shared by Government senators along with Opposition senators. 
I have mentioned the matters which were raised by  Senator Kilgariff.  I thank him for the positive remarks he made.  Senator Keeffe  raised the matter of the Estimates committees which I have dealt with.  His  comment about suppressing and hiding expenditure I believe was an exaggerated point of view. I refer again to the extensive documentation which is received prior to the meeting of the Estimates committees and following questions which are raised during their hearings. I am advised by my departmental advisers that there is a training program for observers which is the responsibility of the Department of Transport. The matter of drugs which  Senator Keeffe  raised has been referred to a royal commission by the Queensland Government. I thank honourable senators for their contributions to the debate on these estimates. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia (3.19 a.m.)- Some things have been said by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in his reply and by  Senator Kilgariff  that cannot be left unanswered. Firstly, I am reminded by my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who has been a member of this chamber for a great number of years, that the Estimates have never been debated on the second last day of the Government's program of sitting and certainly not at 3.20 a.m.  Senator Douglas  McClelland also reminded me that when  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Leader of the Government in the Senate he gave a solemn undertaking when the Estimates committees were set up that there would be no curtailment of debate in the Committee of the Whole. That point should be recognised. The other point that should be recognised is that when the Senate Estimates committees meet in very small committee rooms there is hardly any coverage by the Press of the proceedings. At least there is a public forum in this chamber. The only Committee that receives any Press coverage is the Committee of the Whole that meets in this Chamber. 
I will return to the debate on the Stuart Highway.  Senator Chaney  said that I do not embarrass easily. I certainly do not especially when I am onto something which I want answers for and on which I can prove there has been doubledealing and double-talk. When people read what I have said tonight in the  Hansard - ' 

 Government senators interjecting- 

Virgo shirked his duty. He has done a good job and, as I pointed out, he was congratulated by  Mr Johinke 
The only other matter I want to refer to is what  Senator Chaney  said. He said that when the ribbon is cut for the opening of the Stuart Highway he hopes to see me there. Even if the Government were to adhere to the program laid down it would be 1986 before it is completed and I will not be a member of the Parliament. It is very unlikely that, as an ex-senator, I will get an invitation to the opening of the Stuart Highway when  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Elstob  and I were not paid the courtesy of being given invitations to attend the recent ceremony to celebrate the crossing of the border by the railway line. We were completely ignored. Ever since I came into this Parliament I have continually pressed for a north-south railway line.  Senator Kilgariff,  who gave evidence before a joint parliamentary committee looking into constitutional reform for the Northern Territory, well knows that I repeatedly asked people in the Northern Territory whether they wanted a north-south line as was promised to them under the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910. It is that far back. Of course, successive Liberal tory governments have never honoured the promise. 
Now  Senator Kilgariff  pleads for a survey to be carried out. If he reads the transcript of evidence given to the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory in its inquiry into constitutional development he will find that I repeatedly spoke about a survey. When he talks about a survey and the need for the railway line to be extended from Alice Springs to Darwin after completion of the section from Tarcoola to Alice Springs, he needs to be reminded that it was his Government that closed down the only railway line in the Northern Territory- from Larrimah to Darwin- about six months after it came to office. Who closed it down?  Mr Nixon  closed it down and did away with all the rolling stock. Yet  Senator Kilgariff  now makes a great plea about the need for a railway line in the Northern Territory. These are matters on record. I am sure the people of the Northern Territory will not forget them. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. Department of Administrative Services 
Proposed expenditure, $333,433,000. 
I recall that  Senator Mulvihill  raised the matter he has spoken about tonight with me on a prior occasion. We discussed it both in this chamber and also in the corridor. I regret that he is not satisfied with the answer he has received on a point that is obviously important to public safety. I will take the matter up again. With respect to the matters raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, I would have to say that, having listened very carefully to him, I think he has tried to stretch the point a little on section 64 and he has stretched the point a little on the Australian Broadcasting Commission report as well. The ABC may well be embracing the concept which operates in the United Kingdom. I think that would require a separate statutory provision to the existing provision under section 64. Again, it is not my business to give legal opinions on the matter. I suspect that the point he has made would involve the Government adopting a policy which would involve new legislation to recreate the circumstances that he has advocated. 
In regard to the matters raised by  Senator Robertson,  I am advised with respect to Cox Peninsula that it is expected there will be one transmitter operating before the end of this financial year. 
-My advice is that it is a 250 kilowatt transmitter. I am afraid that does not mean a lot to me. 
-Rather than give inadequate or incomplete information now I will take the point on board and try to respond to it. Regarding the matter of Aboriginal access to community radio, that is already occurring in a number of parts of Western Australia and Tasmania. Aboriginals are using existing licences to put on programs which are run by and produced for Aboriginals. Because those centres were the first, a training program has been undertaken there. The whole matter is one which is under active consideration. I think I indicated to the Estimates Committee that I have had substantial reports from my Department which are still under consideration. I can assure  Senator Robertson  that it is an area which the Government sees as being of considerable potential. I do not feel that I have any information yet which has enabled me to take a definite stand other than to say that I can see its very real value for many of the communities that  Senator Robertson  represents in this place. 
Could you repeat that question? 
My advice on the matter is that part of the Cox Peninsula development involves putting in transmitters for that purpose. Again, I will seek some more detailed information for the honourable senator and let him have it. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The question of the extent of parallel scheduling over the Australian domestic network was extensively examined during the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review (DATPR). The Committee undertaking the Review concluded that the level of parallel scheduling was higher than desirable but agreed with the conclusion of one of its consultants that deparalleling of schedules must not be pursued as an end in itself but would have to be weighed very carefully against the effects which it might have on airline efficiency and against the cost of data collection and analysis machinery. The Committee considered a number of methods of reducing the incidence of parallel scheduling and concluded that Government directed self regulation by the Airlines, through extended rationalisation held the greatest prospects for improving the situation. Following the release of the Report the matter was raised with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Trans-Australian Airlines. I have since been advised that a joint working group has been established by the Airlines to devise schedules which reduce the incidence of parallel flights. Recent moves taken in regard to separated schedules on the Sydney-Canberra-Melbourne routes are considered only as a first step in this regard. 
As the Airlines are currently undertaking a study directed towards reducing the incidence of parallel scheduling it would not be appropriate to refer the matter of timetables to the Rationalisation Committee. 
Post-Secondary Education in Queensland  (Question No. 2039) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The development of civil facilities on Darwin airport, which is a Defence aerodrome, has been constrained by the RAAF's long term planning for Darwin. The Department of Defence has recently proposed that all civil facilities should be relocated in the area north of the main runway by the mid 1980s. The planning of future terminal facilities is now proceeding on this basis although no firm proposals have yet been formulated regarding the timing or extent of such facilities. The need for minor improvements to the terminal building in the interim is also being considered. 
Alice Springs is an aerodrome which is available for transfer to local ownership under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan (ALOP). Under this Plan justified developments of aerodromes can be achieved more readily through a system of grants for approved works, which means that they are not in direct competition with larger airports for the limited funds available. At this time the only plans being considered are in relation to the provision of business concessions in the terminal, but if the local authorities care to participate in the ALOP, this should enable other developments to be expedited. 
In the light of the answer to ( 1 ) above, it is not possible at this stage to determine a firm timetable for the upgrading of the terminals at Darwin and Alice Springs. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 indicated in my answer to Senate Question No. 1 953  (Hansard,  16 October 1979, page 1376) that the Australian National Line is unable to provide the information sought by the honourable senator. From the moment the cancellation of voyages was made known large numbers of passengers made alternative arrangements including transfer to other voyages, travel by air, deferment or cancellation. Each of these transactions resulted in the original booking being cancelled through the computer and this information is irrecoverable. 
Assistance, as indicated in my previous reply, was offered to all passengers. No special arrangements were made for any specific category of passenger. Pensioners opting to travel by air were faced with additional cost principally because domestic airlines do not offer pensioner concessions. The Line is always prepared to treat sympathetically any individual case of particular hardship and has assisted in this way on several occasions in the past but no such incident was brought to its attention on this occasion. 
I am prepared to have inquiries made into any particular case of personal hardship brought to my notice resulting from the cancellation of  Empress of Australia  voyages from 25-29 July 1979. These cases would be examined in the context that ANL is required to operate commercially, maintain commercial relationships with passengers and that it is not re-imbursed for concessions given to pensioners. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Productivity 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 I present the annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a substitute version of the annual report of the Australian Shippers' Council 1978-79 which I initially presented on 15 November 1979. This is necessary because the final page of the initial report was omitted. I apologise for that. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Department of Administrative Services 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Postal and Telecommunications Department 1978-79. As final printing of the report will not be possible until late next week, limited numbers of the report are available from the Parliamentary Library. In addition, other proof copies of the report are available for interested senators from the Minister's office. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Such information includes matters of a commercial nature and it has been made clear on a number of previous occasions, as Qantas operates in a commercial environment, it would not be appropriate to disclose such information. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As the final year of a three year program the 1979-80 Budget contained an amount of $504,000 for payment of air service subsidies to small outback airlines operating air services in the remote northern areas of Australia. With regard to future subsidies for these services a review of such arrangements will be undertaken during this present financial year. Following this review a decision will be made on the future of Commonwealth assistance for air service subsidies. I should add that there are no air service subsidies paid for carriage of passengers and freight to Tasmania. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) No official report of the Swissair DC8 accident is yet available, but Australian newspaper reports indicate that, of the 12 crew and 142 passengers on board, 14 passengers were killed and 10 injured. 
No. There is insufficient information to reach any conclusions as to why passenger fatalities were sustained. Athens Airport is equipped with a rescue and fire fighting service which reportedly was in immediate attendance at the accident site. According to press reports some passengers were injured as a result of them jumping out of the aircraft without using the passenger evacuation slides. 
No, but the number of such movements at Proserpine and Gove will continue to be restricted. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The honourable senator will be aware that the cost of news gathering and the hire of satellite facilities for the transmission of overseas reports is inordinately expensive. 
Australian commercial television stations share the Visnews service, involving a 15-minute, daily satellite feed from London, as a means of reducing the very high costs involved. 
The alternative of each Australian station or network arranging for its own overseas news coverage and hire of satellite time is not considered by the stations to be feasible because of the prohibitive costs involved and the fact that visual reports of major overseas events would be largely identical, irrespective of source. 
The ABC-TV news does not provide the same coverage of overseas news as commercial television stations. 
A comprehensive coverage of world news is available from only a small number of agencies, to which any news organisation may subscribe. The ABC's basic coverage is provided by Australian Associated Press incorporating the Reuter service, and United Press International News on film is supplied by Visnews, and fed to Australia each day by satellite. 
The ABC builds on these basic word and film news services with supplementary material provided by its staff of foreign correspondents and cameramen, and stringers in various parts of the world. 
Alternative overseas news reports could be provided by the UPITN and CBS organisations. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The current per day overseas allowance paid to the Directors, including the  Chairman,  is Western Hemisphere, $US30; Europe,$F130; Japan route, A$30; Middle East/ 
South East Asia/Indonesia/South Africa,$A25; New  Zealand/Fiji,$20, plus the cost of accommodation, breakfast, laundry and valet services. 
I am not in a position to give precise details in respect of the negotiations referred to because although both parties involved advised me recently of their position, they have asked that the matter be kept confidential. Essentially, it is a commercial matter between the parties and I have to respect that request. I can say to the Senate that the parties- that is, the Central Land Council, on behalf of the traditional owners, and the Magellan interests- are now engaged in what I would regard as real negotiations after a long period in which there was not in my view a reality of negotiations but rather a seeking by the mining interest to have a variation made to the Act which governs the matter. I am satisfied that progress is now being made. I understand that negotiations are likely to be finalised in the not too distant future. This is a matter of some importance. The Northern Territory Government, and I am sure the Northern Territory community, are vitally interested in the development of that gas field and oil field. It certainly has been my wish that the negotiations should proceed in the fruitful manner in which they are now proceeding. 
I recollect this matter being raised in the Senate on at least two occasions by  Senator Jessop.  I seem to remember that I was somewhat embarrassed on the second occasion because I had not met a timetable in regard to giving information that I had promised. I was extremely reticent a couple of weeks ago when the second question was asked. My recollection of the information I had at that time is that there is no financial problem with respect to this matter. The finance is available. Certain technical studies must be completed and once they are completed it will be possible for the work to proceed without any further delay. If that is the case then it appears that in the absence of any further action the delays are related to technical problems. I will take the matter up with  Mr Staley,  the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, and seek a reply for the honourable senator. I note that he has expressed himself as running out of patience on the matter. I would not wish to have the rest of this period of sitting spoilt by an impatient  Senator Jessop. 
I am aware of the interest which has been expressed in this matter. Indeed, the honourable senator has asked questions about it in this chamber. I am not in a position to give him the information he has requested, but I will seek a response from the Minister for Transport. 
-On 19 November  Senator Teague  asked me a question about the closure of the road from Gove across Arnhem Land. I was not able to give him all the information he requested and in particular I was not able to respond to his question as to whether Aboriginals were denying European residents road access across Arnhem Land. As I thought at the time, there are no continuing problems in this matter. There were some problems some time ago. The only additional point that arises that may be relevant is that the police closed the road about two weeks ago because of water over it during the Wet which is normal for this time of the year. I wanted to clarify the point about the permits because the answer was reported in terms which suggested that there was a problem between the residents of Gove and the Aboriginal owners of Arnhem Land. I am pleased to say that that is not the case. 
-On 20 November  Senator Ryan  asked me a question without notice concerning the bid by News Ltd for a majority shareholding in the Herald and Weekly Times group. In answering that question, I indicated that  Mr Staley  had under consideration earlier calls by  Senator Ryan  and others to have the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal conduct an inquiry into the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act.  Mr Staley  has asked me to make it clear that the Government has noted the view put forward by the Tribunal in its report on the recent purchase by News Ltd of Channel 10 in Sydney. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has informed me that whilst he is still considering this matter in a general sense he wants to make it clear that no immediate action will be taken along these lines. The question is complex and  Mr Staley  has already publicly indicated that he is prepared to look at it in the context of a major review of the Broadcasting and Television Act. As to the latest bid by News Ltd,  Senator Ryan  will be aware of  Mr Staley  's public statements on this matter in which he stressed the very stringent provisions on ownership and control which apply under the Broadcasting and Television Act. Statements attributed to the chief executive of News Ltd appear to indicate that  Mr Murdoch  is aware of these stringent provisions and will adhere to them in seeking the Tribunal's approval of any actual agreement. 
-Senator Keeffe asked a question on 14 November to which I gave some supplementary information yesterday about the Community Development Employment Projects Scheme. I gave him the names of three communities where there are such projects in the Northern Territory. I wrongly advised that the Milingimbi figures related to six months of operation; it should be eight months of operation. I have a small amount of additional information, namely, that in relation to new CDEP projects departmental officers will, in the next week or so, commence detailed discussions with communities to develop specific proposals. I am not in a position to make a statement on specific locations until I receive the proposals developed in consultation with communities.I have previously publicly indicated that the Government proposes to increase CDEPs to a level which would involve an annual expenditure of something like an additional $5m. 
For the information of honourable senators and in accordance with an undertaking given by the Minister for Trade and Resources in the House of Representatives on 2 1 August 1 979, 1 present a report by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies on the social impact of uranium mining on the Aborigines of the Northern Territory. I also have a statement which sets out what the Government has done with respect to the matters raised in the report. It is not on the list of statements, but I do want it to be available to the public and to the Opposition. I seek leave to incorporate that in  Hansard.  If leave is not granted, I will simply table it. 
Leave not granted. 
-I table a statement from the Government on the report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual report of the Australian Shipping Commission 1 978-79. Copies of the report are available from the House of Representatives Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. Bulk copies will be distributed during the recess. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the University of Adelaide Road Accident Research Unit entitled 'Adelaide In-Depth Accident Study 1975-79 Part I: An Overview. I think it deals with the great final accident in Adelaide in 1979. 
by leave- There will be no opportunity for the Senate to debate the report of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. I made a serious effort to get this statement before the Senate because I know that it is of general interest to the Senate and to the community. It is a matter of keeping faith with both the Paliament and the community that the Institute 's impact statement has been made available in this way. On behalf of the Government, I wish to indicate that we would not be granting leave to have a series of speeches made on the matter. I will confine my own remarks to a couple of minutes. 
So that it is on the record following what was said by  Senator Gietzelt,  I merely wish to say that the Government has on a number of occasions met the allegations with respect to the Ranger negotiations. I do not intend to canvass the matter again except to say that the Government rejects any suggestion that any wrong pressure or undue influence was exerted on the Aboriginal people with respect to that agreement. I would like simply to draw the attention of the Senate to what I see as a quite objective proof of the Government's sincerity in this matter. I am referring to an action of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, which was the appointment of the Institute of Aboriginal Studies to perform this monitoring role. I do not believe that anyone could ask for a greater indication of the sincerity of the Government than for the Government to engage people who are all totally independent of the Government. The  chairman  is a professor from the University of New South Wales; the  deputy chairman  is a leading anthropologist from Western Australia; and there are people like Bill Wentworth and Ken Colbung who are involved in this monitoring process. I put that before the Senate as a clear indication of the Government's good faith in this matter. 
Needless to say, the Government is concerned about the matters which have been raised by the monitoring group. At the same time, it expected difficulties to arise. I have put down in the statement which I tabled earlier the response which the Government has made to the points which have been raised. Many of those responses predate the delivery of the report as they were part of a continuing process of action. In the interests of the public being informed, I again seek the leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard my statement so that the record is available over the recess. I am sure that that will contribute to an informed debate both within and without the Parliament. I seek leave to incorporate my statement. 
Leave not granted. 
I conclude my remarks by simply drawing the attention of the public and of the readers of  Hansard  to the fact that the Government has conscientiously put this report before the Parliament. It has set out in a statement, which is available but which now will not appear in  Hansard,  what is actually happening with respect to areas of concern in this matter. It can do nothing further to ensure that the public and the Parliament are informed. It is the Opposition which is ensuring that this response is not available. I move: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions as proposed by Messrs B. S. Nicholls, J. F. Morgan and F. W. Statham, the Commissioners appointed for the purpose of redistributing the said State into Divisions, in their report laid before the Senate on the 13th day of November 1979, and that the names of the Divisions suggested in the report, and indicated in the maps referred to therein, be adopted, except that the name of the Division suggested by the Commissioners for identification purposes to be named Canning be named O'Connor and that the name of the Division suggested to be named Roe be named Canning. 
The Government has considered the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia. It is the view of the Government that the report should be adopted insofar as the boundaries are concerned but that it would be appropriate to adopt different names for two of the proposed divisions. I take the opportunity to thank the three Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia. They have done their job expeditiously. The Government believes that they have done it fairly. A motion in similar terms has already been passed through the other place. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
in reply- I should like to thank the Senate for its speedy consideration of this motion and to thank the Opposition in particular. I would just like to make two comments. The first is that the O'Connor after whom the seat is named is C. Y. O'Connor, a notable Western Australia engineer who was engineer-in-chief of the colony in 1891. So that does not give rise to the historical and philosophical concerns mentioned by  Senator Gietzelt. 
The only other point I want to mention relates to the honourable senator's concern that the Australian Labor Party has to get 50 per cent of the vote to win more than two seats. This is acknowledged by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the other place as being a problem which cannot be overcome easily by the Distribution Commissioners because of the nature of the distribution of the population within metropolitan Perth. So one can envisage that almost any redistribution will produce the same result. The point that I made in the Senate the last time we debated a similar matter was that in no electorate is there a large majority of 
Labor votes locked away, so it cannot be seen as a redistribution which is locking away a majority of Labor votes in a way which disadvantages the Labor Party in other seats. I just mention that because I think it does reflect on the problems of the Labor Party in winning seats in Western Australia. I would suggest to all honourable senators that they look at the percentages of votes obtained by the parties in the last three elections which are contained in the figures which were distributed by the Australian Electoral Office to all senators. I think those figures indicate the political problem which is faced by Opposition members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to respond briefly to the points which have been made. I make it quite clear to the Committee that I was not suggesting in my response that  Senator Colston  was confused. I used the word 'confusion' but it is a difficult area. I referred to the very careful preparation that the honourable senator's speech had obviously had and if there was any inference that I was suggesting that he was confused I withdraw it. 
In relation to the matter of fare box subsidies, I suggest to the Committee that, although that aspect is beyond the province of the Government and this chamber, the increasing of fares is not necessarily the only way for the transport system to increase the subsidy. If one can increase usage of the transport system, which might be done by reducing fares, that could give rise to the payment of an increased subsidy. That matter is not before us for determination. I simply challenge the point that has been made. I accept  Senator Colston's  comment that there is a philosophic difference which is central to the Government's non-acceptance of the amendment. As I indicated earlier, for 40 years Grants Commission payments to the States have been in the form of untied grants. The States have been left with the discretion to apply those grants in the way they have seen fit I mentioned the special circumstances of Queensland in relation to both local government and hospitals as examples of the way in which that discretion had been exercised in that State. It is a process to which the Government does not wish to see a change made. The Government believes that it would become enmeshed in a most unfortunate situation if it tried to direct that grants by the Grants Commission be made in the way in which the amendment proposes. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I thank the Senate for its speedy consideration of the Queensland Grant (Special Assistance) Bill 1979. I advise the Opposition generally and  Senator Colston  in particular, that the Government is not able to accept the amendment which he moved for reasons which I will now explain.  Senator Colston  has taken a close interest in this matter and has made a carefully prepared speech on a matter of some technical complexity and I am sure has greatly aided the Senate in its understanding of the operations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Because of the technical nature of the matter, I have sought some advice on the amendment which was moved. On the basis of that advice it does appear that there may be some confusion surrounding the treatment by the Commissioner of Queensland's metropolitan transport system. 
It is true that, as a result of a change in approach adopted by the Grants Commission, Queensland's recommended special grant has been greater since 1974-75 than it would have been had the Commission continued to use its previous approach. But that is simply because under the current approach the assessed needs are less negative than they were under the old approach. The central point is that needs in regard to metropolitan transport in Queensland have continued to be assessed as negative. The total negative need is estimated at $ 13.66m for 1 977-78, the latest year for which a final assessment has been made. That is to say, the Grants Commission has concluded that in Queensland metropolitan transport services can be provided at the same level of service as in New South Wales and Victoria at a lower cost per capita. So in fact it has a negative influence on the overall figuring of the Grants Commission. 
The continued assessment of negative needs in this area means that the overall special grant recommended for Queensland is less than it would have been had metropolitan transport operations been excluded altogether from the Commission 's assessment of financial needs. In those circumstances and even if the Commonwealth were prepared to abandon the principles which have underlined the Grants Commission system for 40-odd years, it would hardly seem appropriate for the Commonwealth to suggest that some part of the special grant to Queensland should be passed on to the Brisbane City Council. 
It is a little odd to expect the Senate, as a States House, to be directing the States on this matter when, for 40 years, the practice has been to make these payments as general purpose payments to the States, the precise use of which is determined by the States. To do otherwise is, of course, to deprive the States of flexibility in their internal financing, a matter about which I think they would be fairly hostile. I would have thought that in Queensland there would have been fairly strong support for the view that it ought to be within the province of the Queensland Government to regulate its financial relationships with its local authorities. 
This is not to say that it would not be appropriate for the State, if it so wished, to make its own arrangements to assist the Brisbane City Council in this area. The State introduced a scheme in 1977-78 whereby a subsidy amounting to 50 per cent of fare collections is paid to the Council. In addition the State reimburses the Council for various fare concessions granted to students and so on. The figures incorporated in  Hansard  by  Senator Colston  give us some guidance in this area. The figures show that no State Government funds were made available to the Brisbane City Council in 1974-75. In 1975-76 $0.9m was made available. In 1976-77 $lm was made available. In 1977-78, which is the year in which the additional measures I referred to were instituted, the figure rose to $4.886m. In fact there is a growing involvement of the Queensland Government with this area of the activities of the Brisbane City Council. 
There are basically three reasons why the Government does not accept the amendment put forward by  Senator Colston.  Firstly, as I have already indicated, throughout the 40-odd year history of the Grants Commission special grants paid to claimant States have been general purpose payments. If the Commonwealth were to require or even urge that part of the currently proposed grant be paid to the Brisbane City Council towards its deficit on bus service operations the door would be open to a welter of requests from special interest groups asking that the Commonwealth ensure that Queensland applied funds in accordance with the contributions made by particular activities to the special grant. The second problem in any proposal that we should direct or urge the Queensland Government in this matter, is that bus operations are only one aspect of the financial relationship between the Brisbane City Council and the Queensland Government. 
I can give some figures which show that the Council receives funds from the State for various purposes. The question of balancing the financial roundabouts and swings between the two bodies is one which in the view of the Commonwealth is for the citizens of Brisbane and of Queensland and not for the Commonwealth to determine. In 1977-78 the Queensland Government paid moneys to the Brisbane City Council under a variety of heads. For example, it paid subsidies on capital works to the tune of $3. 569m. It paid loans towards debenture programs of $ 167m. It applied certain Commonwealth moneys, within which there is a discretionary element left to the Queensland Government, in the local government tax sharing entitlements of $4.9m. It made untied grants towards administrative and operating costs of $0.492m. 
I refer now to the subsidy on transport operations. The figures I have differ slightly from the figures incorporated in  Hansard  by  Senator Colston.  My advice is that the subsidy was $5.027m in 1977-78. In fact, one has a complex of financial arrangements between the State Government and the Brisbane City Council of which the transport operation is but one. In a number of important respects the Queensland financial arrangements differ from the financial arrangements in other States. For example, Queensland has its own hospital system of which it is very proud. It has always stoutly resisted any interference with its tradition of free hospitals. I do not believe it is for the Commonwealth to override all State discretion in this area, although the Opposition may take that view. The Brisbane City Council is a local authority structure which is peculiar to Queensland. Again it is not a structure on which one can seek to impose some Australia-wide rule. 
I turn now to the final point that I want to mention as to why the amendment cannot be accepted by the Government. The change in approach or methodology adopted by the Commonwealth Grants Commission since the year of review 1974-75 involves the use of what is known as the modified deficit of metropolitan road transport services of the Brisbane City Council. This means that the Grants Commission is looking not at an actual deficit but at a notional deficit. In other words, it looks at the system as though certain theoretical parameters are applied rather than the actual. 
Perhaps I might put this a little more succinctly than it appears in the note which has just been given to me. I think my explanation might have been a little confusing. It represents the notional deficit which would have resulted if the Brisbane road transport services had followed the same policies and practices as the metropolitan road transport services in New South Wales and Victoria. Even if the Brisbane City Council doubled or halved its fares that would not affect the amount which was taken into account in terms of this notional or modified deficit. In fact, my understanding is that the modified deficit is very close to the actual deficit figure, but in terms of having a practice that one could follow, it could in fact be quite a different figure. I simply mention that as being another reason why it has to be left, in the view of the Government, to the arrangements between the City Council, the State Government and the citizens they share in common. I commend the Bill to the Senate and seek speedy passage. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition and the Australian Democrats for their speedy consideration of what is, as they have conceded, essentially a technical Bill which simply tidies up the legislation which refers to the Commonwealth Police, changes the references to the Australian Federal Police and deals with some basically industrial matters about which there is no dispute within the Parliament. I appreciate the very sincere interest of both the honourable senators who have spoken on the Bill. I would like to make a couple of comments in response to the points which they have made. I express regret that  Senator Giezelt  will not be able to be involved in the discussion on the Bills before us tomorrow. I know, because I was briefly the Minister for Administrative Services, that  Senator Gietzelt  showed a close interest in the formation of the new Australian Federal Police and that he would have wished to participate in the debate tomorrow. 
There is c!.e point on which I would correct him. He referred to breaches of the law by the Australian Federal Police and obliquely referred to matters which have currently been the subject of considerable comment within the Senate. I remind the Senate that the Australian Federal Police is a very recent animal. I think that the force officially came into existence on 19 October. Any of the matters which are the subject of complaint and debate at the moment relate to the previous police forces which the Australian Federal Police has replaced. Needless to say, the Australian Federal Police represents the amalgamation of the previous forces and it is the job of the new force to improve Federal policing in Australia in a way in which I believe the Government, the Opposition and the Australian Democrats would all wish. The sentiments of goodwill expressed by  Senator Chipp,  I believe, would be supported by all Government senators and by all Opposition senators. I think that we would all be in agreement that a sound police force is essential to the operation of a good democratic society. It is our unanimous wish that the Australian Federal Police under its new Commissioner should be able to contribute to a better Australian society. 
The expressions by  Senator Chipp  were reflected in  Senator Gietzelt  's closing remarks in which he expressed a desire for a more vigorous and effective police organisation. I think the attempts of the present Government in bringing out  Sir Robert  Mark for the report and the formation of the new police force are again an indication of a common purpose. I think it is important that the public of Australia and the Australian Federal Police should understand that this is not a matter on which there is any partisan dispute in this Parliament. I do not wish to take up  Senator Chipp  's comments on the question of the Narcotics Bureau. That is a matter which will be more precisely before the Senate in legislation to be dealt with probably tomorrow, and no doubt that will be the subject of some debate. I simply acknowledge the comments which he has made. Like him, I agree that that argument should now be put aside and we should concentrate on the development of effective police forces for the future. 
On this Bill, as on so many others, I think it is heartening that the Government and the Opposition express common sentiments. It is a fact that within Australia there is much unanimity, I think, about many of the basics, about the way our society should work, and I think it is important that in debates such as this one the common points, the points of unanimity, should be stressed as well as the points of division which the Opposition properly brings before the public. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I thank the Senate for its consideration of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill.  ( Quorum formed). 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Those companies participating in the Motor Vehicle Manufacturing Plan are: 
Australian Motor Industries Limited (AMI) 
Chrysler Australia Limited 
Ford Motor Company of Australia Limited 
General Motors-Holden Limited (GM-H) 
Nissan Motor Company (Australia) Pty Ltd. 
In 1978 Chrysler failed to meet its content commitment under the Plan. 
On 18 October 1978 the Government announced that where a participant in the motor vehicle Plan failed to meet its content targets because of major currency appreciations, it would be allowed to adjust its local content calculation, for the purpose of application of penalty duties under the local content Plan, on the basis of a 12 month lag in the application of exchange rates. 
On this basis AMI and Nissan exceeded Plan commitments and, in accordance with the Government's decision, these companies were considered to have met Plan requirements. Ford and GM-H met their content commitments without recourse to this provision of the Scheme. 
Chrysler, however, did not achieve its commitment and its by-law benefits for 1978 were reduced in accordance with the provisions set out in Section A5 of the Plan. 
Whether or not Plan participants have achieved their local content commitments in 1979 is a matter for determination after the end of the year and any appropriate penalties will be calculated at that time. 
The administration of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturing Plan is the responsibility of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I understand that this Department carries out its responsibility by a process which includes: lodgement of quarterly local content returns from Plan manufacturers and checking of these returns visits to Plan manufacturers to examine reporting procedures and audit company records. 
All Plan manufacturers have from time to time made requests pertaining to the motor vehicle Plan 
In 1977 Chrysler, Nissan and AMI sought special arrangements in relation to their local content commitments because ofthe effects of the 1 976 Australian dollar devaluation 
In 1978 Chrysler, Nissan and AMI requested adjustment of local content calculation to take into account major currency appreciations, in particular, the appreciation of the Yen 
In 1976, 1977 and 1978 Ford and GM-H requested that the 'no reversion' provision of the local content Plan be discontinued 
In 1977 and 1978 GM-H and Ford sought a modification of the local content Plan to allow the inclusion of light commercial vehicles 
In 1978 Chrysler requested that the existing phasing provisions be removed while retaining the target of 85 per cent for all Plan entrants by 1 January 1980 
vi) In 1 978 Chrysler sought approval to enter the Sigma into the Plan under the same conditions as new entrants are permitted to achieve content levels over time rather than as an established manufacturer 
In 1978 and 1979 Chrysler, GM-H and Nissan requested the introduction of an export credit scheme into the motor vehicle Plan. 
I am advised that two of the companies participating in the Motor Vehicle Manufacturing Plan wholly or partly own companies producing automotive components. W. H. Wylie and Co. Pty Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of Chrysler while AMI has a minority interest in Toyota Manufacturing Australia Limited and Nippondenso (Australia) Pty Ltd. 
Australian Motor Industries Limited and Chrysler Australia Limited are listed on Australian stock exchanges. 
The Government introduced the 'naturalisation' concept into its foreign investment policy in June 1978 as an incentive to partly Australian owned foreign companies to increase their Australian ownership. 
It is for individual companies to decide, on the basis of their own commercial judgement, whether they would wish to ' Australianise ' their operations. 
Australian Embassy in Paris  (Question No. 2127) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The cost of repair, cleaning and replacement of damaged equipment and materials is estimated at $250,000. Action to recover costs is being pursued by the Embassy's lawyers with the assistance of the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office. 
The Embassy has engaged three independent experts to report on the cause of flooding. Two reports have been received. Each says there are deficiencies in the way some fittings were installed in the drainage system. 
All apartments are occupied. The area allocated for office accommodation allows for some future expansion. No apartments or office space remain unoccupied as a result of the flooding. A small recreational facility in the basement is under repair and cannot be used at present. 
The estimated value ofthe building is $A28m. Sale of this property is not under consideration. 
$A2.2m. 
Housing of Asian Refugees in Canberra  (Question No. 2128) 
On 8 June 1979  Senator Ryan  asked me, as the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, the following question without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is he aware of the article  in B &amp; T Advertising Weekly  of 29 March 1979 in which  Mr Staley  is reported to have told the Advertising Federation of Australia on 23 March: 'The concept (of ethnic television) will be partially, if not significantly, funded by advertising'. Can the Minister reconcile that statement with the answer given to a question which I placed on notice on 4 April 1979 which sought information on the funding of ethnic television, and to which he replied: 
The Government will not make any decisions on matters relating to the establishment of the permanent ethnic television service until it has received a report on the outcome of the present consultation process with ethnic communities and other interested parties'. 
Would the Minister agree that that answer is misleading and that the Government policy outlined by the Minister in March and reiterated by  Mr Frank  Galbally,  chairman  of the Ethnic Television Review Panel, in late May, is for a commercial service? 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am aware of the article in  B &amp; T Advertising Weekly,  Marketing and Media Weekly in which I am reported in the terms outlined. The report was wrong in as much as I attempted to make it clear that the concept of funding- by way of advertising- was one of the options. 
From the consultation process to date it is apparent that there are many views on the manner in which ethnic television services should be established, including the important question of funding. I can only reiterate that the Government will not be making any decision on such matters until the full consultation process has been completed, and a final report is received from the Ethnic Television Review Panel. 
-On 26 September 1979  (Hansard  page 95 1 ),  Senator Watson  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce the following question, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. All honourable senators would be aware of the great pioneering work on the commercial development of penicillin which has been done in Australia. In view of some doubts which have been expressed about the continued production of penicillin at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, when can the Australian community expect a government response as to whether the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories or the foreign owned Aborts Laboratories will be the sole producer of penicillin in Australia? 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government announced on 19 November that it had decided to assist the two established domestic manufacturers of penicillin in Australia by means of a subsidy. 
The subsidy will be paid to Abou Australia Pty Ltd for production of phenoxymethyl penicillin (penicillin  V)  and to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories for production of benzyl penicillin (penicillin G). 
-I understand that by arrangement with the Opposition and with the consent of  Senator McLaren,  who took the adjournment on Government Business Orders of the Day Nos 5 and 7, it is proposed that the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3), the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No 4) and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) be dealt with together in a cognate debate. 
Because of the program, I will be very brief. I respond very quickly particularly to the first point raised by the honourable senator relating to my Department. I should like to make it quite clear to the Senate that, whilst I might regret yet again that confidential documents have been leaked, I am not vaguely embarrassed or apologetic about the proposition that there should be a program effectiveness review into Aboriginal health programs. I should like to make it quite clear to you, sir, and to the Senate that I am certainly not satisfied that Aboriginal health programs are as effective as they should be. I am quite sure that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs report can only be read as indicating that it is not satisfied that the programs are as effective as they should be. I am quite sure that the National Aboriginal and Islander Health Organisation is not satisfied that existing programs are as effective as they should be; I am quite sure that the public is not satisfied; and I am quite sure that  Senator Keeffe  is not satisfied. If he is in any present doubt, I remind him of his statements on such subjects as infant mortality among Aboriginals. 
I think that the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare has made the point, which ought to be self-evident anyway, that Government programs should be reviewed as to their effectiveness. There is no point in putting money into programs which do not have the effect for which they are designed, and my objective and that of my Department in this matter is to ascertain simply to what extent the programs which have been funded by my Department now over a period of years are achieving the effect that is sought, namely, the better health of Aboriginal people. 
With respect to Yarrabah, I confirm what the Senate already knows. I will be going to Yarrabah next week. I would welcome precise information about additional signatures which have been obtained on that petition. That has not yet been sent to me. As far as Hope Vale is concerned, I do not have all of the material, much of which has been incorporated in  Hansard.  I say simply that I will study it. 
I thank  Senator Lajovic  for his speech, which I think was made on behalf of all senators. The Joint Statutory Committee on Public Accounts is a most important Committee, and the widening of its jurisdiction is welcomed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to (3) The information required is contained in the following tables. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
CD- 
-As far as I know, the matters raised by the honourable senator have not yet been determined. It is my understanding that they will be determined in consultation with, if not by, the group that has been selected. I in turn welcome  Senator Ryan's  views as to the people who have been selected to do this very important job. My recollection- I am speaking from recollection only- is that the Minister wishes to use those people to formulate policy on some of the matters that the honourable senator has raised. Of course, I will refer the matter to  Mr Staley  and get a more authoritative reply than I am able to give now. 
Honourable senators might remember that this matter was touched upon in the debate on transport legislation the other evening to which  Senator Kilgariff  made a contribution. My understanding is that the study team has indicated that it expects the report to be available by Christmas. The Federal Government and the Northern Territory Government do not regard that date as being critical. They are concerned with the quality of the report. They simply want the report to be available as soon as possible. The report is being prepared primarily for the benefit of both governments, to enable them to decide on the feasibility of the railway either at this time or in the near future. Publication of the report will be a matter for consultation between both governments after they have had the chance to examine it. 
-I think that all that could be said about that question was said by Charles Kingsley years ago when he said: 
For men must work, and women must weep, 
And the sooner it 's over, the sooner to sleep, 
Though the harbour bar be moaning. 
Somewhat to my surprise,  Senator Harradine  wants a more definite answer with respect to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and HMAS  Attack  than I was able to give him. I will refer the question to  Mr Staley  for that purpose. 
In answering a question by  Senator Ryan,  I indicated that the answer was on the basis of my recollection. I have had some confirmation since I gave that answer that the general thrust of what I said is in accord with  Mr Staley  's intentions.  Mr Staley  wants to stress that he does not want to be involved in the running of the Committee of Review of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He has every confidence in the ability of the people on the Committee, who are sensitive to suggestions and opinions put to them. He is certain that they will take note of  Senator Ryan's  contribution. The Minister and the Government hope that the greatest possible participation by the public will occur. The matters of detail as to how the Committee proceeds will be up to the Committee. 
-Yesterday  Senator Jessop  raised with me the matter of television services on Eyre Peninsula. The Senate will be well aware of  Senator Jessop  's untiring efforts to achieve for the residents of Eyre Peninsula a television service, which the great majority of Australians have now enjoyed for 20 years or so. Before providing  Senator Jessop  with further information which I have received from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, I should make clear that  Senator Jessop  was mistaken in his question in one minor respect. These matters are not for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, as suggested by the honourable senator, but for  Mr Staley  's Department. Therefore, it would be unfair of us to accuse the Tribunal of procrastination in this area. The finger must be pointed at Mr Staley's Department alone. 
The Minister has informed me of the sorry history of this matter. It appears, sad to say, that undertakings have been given in the past which have not been met.  Mr Staley  has indicated that for this reason, both in replies to  Senator Jessop  and others and during  Mr Staley's  trip to Eyre Peninsula early this year, he has been most reluctant to give firm undertakings unless he is absolutely sure that they can be met. He has judged that a sureness about information given is better than speed. During the visit to Eyre Peninsula, however, the Minister indicated that he would, as quickly as possible, provide to  Senator Jessop  and residents of Eyre Peninsula an outline of the project to extend television services to the area. My memory is that this has been done. 

 Senator Jessop seeks an indication as to when this project will commence. The Minister's advice is that, whilst the plan in total has not been finalised or submitted for his final approval, as a general indication his officials expect to commence site acquisitions on Eyre Peninsula by the middle of next year and then progressively to construct the necessary facilities so that the project is finalised by the end of 1982. The honourable senator will understand that this is a project of some magnitude and cannot be completed any more quickly. It may be possible, however, to commence earlier so that the whole matter can be brought to a conclusion in a shorter time span.  Mr Staley  has indicated that he is aware of the great desire of residents of Eyre Peninsula to have what most other Australians have enjoyed for some time. He has instructed his officials to pursue the completion of this project and, if possible, to bring forward the date by which final decisions can be made. 
-The other matter concerns a question raised by  Senator Wriedt  on 14, 15 and 20 November 1979 when he asked whether I would obtain from the Minister for Administrative Services details of an apparent conflict between advice given to a Minister of the Crown and evidence given before the court. I have been provided with an answer in writing and, as  Senator Wriedt  has been called away from the chamber, I seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The information sought is not clear and relates to some matters which are the responsibility of other Ministers. As far as those matters relate to the position of the former Commonwealth Police who are within my area of responsibility, the factual position is clear on the two questions that have been raised, namely: 
did the Commonwealth Police advise that they did not telephone tap? 
what pan did the Commonwealth Police have in respect of consideration of payment of a reward to an informant? 
The following basic information can be given but I am not prepared- nor is it my responsibility- to be drawn into sub judice matters of court evidence; these matters are for the courts, the Presiding Officers and the Attorney-General. 
On (i), the former Commonwealth Police have advised throughout that they did not telephone tap as they did not intercept as denned in the I960 Act and that they did nothing illegal. 
On (ii), the former Commonwealth Police informed the appropriate Departments in Canberra that they had an informant with valuable information about social security frauds and it would be appropriate for a reward for such valuable information to be of a special amount beyond the Police resources and the former Commonwealth Police assessed it as $30,000. The matter was left to the appropriate Departments to consider and the Department of Social Security advised that $30,000 could be made available in the event of a successful result to the inquiry but the approval of the Treasurer would be necessary. Although negotiations by a former Commonwealth Police officer were made with the Solicitor for the informant, in relation to the amount for any award, no Ministerial decision has been taken and no payment has been made. 
I thank honourable senators for their speedy consideration of the Patents Amendment (Patent Cooperation Treaty) Bill. I thank  Senator Watson  for his support of it. For the reasons indicated by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  in the House of Representatives, the Government does not propose to accept the amendment, which calls upon the Government to take certain steps which the Opposition says are necessary to develop complementary legislation. As was indicated in the House of Representatives and in a news release dated 15 November 1979 put out by the Minister for Productivity, the Industrial Property Advisory Committee has been asked to examine the effectiveness of the patents system in encouraging the adoption of new technology by Australia. It will also look at how the system aids or inhibits Australian inventions and the transfer of technology to Australia. 
The reference to the Committee is a broad one and encompasses the areas of concern which have been raised by the Opposition. It is the view of the Government that this report is an appropriate step to be taken at this stage in respect of the matters of concern in the area of patents. I should mention, in case honourable senators are not aware, that the Industrial Property Advisory Committee is very broadly based. It comprises representatives from industry, the Department of Productivity, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, an economist, a lawyer, a patent attorney and the Commissioner of Patents. A fair spread of interests is involved. I commend the Bill to the Senate and hope that it will get a speedy passage. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I think that both  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Mulvihill  have taken an unnecessarily doleful view of the fact that the amendment has not been accepted by the Government. It might have been of some assistance to the Senate's consideration of the matter if the Opposition, instead of going off on a frolic of its own, had had some discussion with members of the Senate Select Committee on Science and the Environment. I understand that no one bothered to mention to  Senator Jessop  the attitude that was being adopted. If one is trying to promote this sort of co-operative approach, then it is a good idea to do it through a process of consultation rather than producing it from one side of the chamber. I draw the Committee's attention to the comments which I made earlier and which referred to comments made by the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  in reply, in the House of Representatives on 7 November 1 979. Those comments can be seen in full at page 27 1 9 of  Hansard.  I shall quote briefly from it. It will be seen that the Government is not saying that these matters should not be dealt with. Rather it is saying that we have instituted, through the Industrial Property Advisory Committee an examination of the system on a quite broad base and on a basis which the Minister believes takes up these two points. That is an appropriate step. In that context the Senate's calling upon the Government to take the step necessary really is out of time because the Government has already taken steps to get this legislation moving. In that sense the motion is not necessary.  Mr Macphee  said: 
The honourable member for Adelaide raised two points. 
These are the points which appear in the motion- 
I would like to assure him that each of the points which he has raised will be examined in the course of the inquiry into the patent system which I mentioned in my second reading speech and which I will formally announce ... I assure him that in the light of his contribution today I will look again at the terms of reference and if I do not believe they cover the areas about which he has genuine misgivings then I will make sure that they are rectified. My recollection of them is that they are broad enough to encompass those parts of his amendment which are based on valid concerns. 
In other words the recommendations and views of the Senate Committee have not been put aside. They have been put under examination through that Committee, which is not a partisan committee but an expert committee taking in the various interests in this field. I suggest that  Senator Mulvihill  need not feel that this is the end of the beginning of a new era, but rather that it indicates that if one is to approach legislation of this son by utilising the work done by committees in areas such as this, then perhaps the Opposition might take a little more care to consult with members of the Government who are concerned and who would perhaps be anxious to join in such an effort and to ensure that the suggestions are ahead of the play, and not behind it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Northern Land Council appointed Mildren and Partners to act on a matter basis in September 1978 under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
I am informed that because Mildren and Partners respect the confidences of their clients they will not divulge any information to any person concerning their clients without the consent of the person under inquiry; Mildren and Partners do state they have never acted for any alleged member of the Ku Klux Klan since being retained generally by the Northern Land Council in January 1979. 
No. 
Prior to receiving any instructions from the Northern Land Council, Mildren and Partners acted in 1975 and 1976 for Opitz (Cooinda) Enterprises Pty Ltd and K. S. &amp; C. J. Hill. In a hearing of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry  Mr Mildren  argued successfully that the Opitz (Cooinda) Enterprises 's leases were of a nature that precluded the leased land being treated as unalienated land; a similar argument in respect of K. S. &amp; C. J. Hills 's interests was not accepted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Costs incurred by the Northern Land Council during the negotiation of the Ranger agreement, such as airfares, legal fees, vehicle hire, catering and accommodation expenses, totalling $150,000, were reimbursed by the Commonwealth upon production of receipts. 
Yes; (a) $5,756.40; (b) Yes; (c) Northern Land Council. 
Yes. 
Provision was made in a Notice of Discontinuance filed in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory as follows: 
The Northern Land Council acknowledges that the plaintiffs have properly incurred legal, travel and accommodation and other expenses for themselves and others in this matter and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council has agreed to use his best endeavours to arrange for the payment of those expenses by whatever means he can achieve'. 
Yes. 
, (c) and (d) I understand that the costs, of which I do not have details, have been paid by the North Australian Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. 
See answer(4) above. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Clerk, Class 10, Third Division (unattached). 
Yes; (a) long service leave, (b) from 6 July 1979 to 5 March 1 980 inclusive. 
Clerk, Class 10 rate by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in respect of long service leave, and the same rate by the Northern Land Council. 
Yes; approval to engage in work outside the Public Service was given by the Regional Director (Northern Territory) of the Public Service Board under the provisions of Public Service General Order 5/G/ 1. 
Yes; (a) Senior Administration Officer, Ranger Monitoring Cell; (b) until February 1980; (c) he is responsible for assisting the Council in carrying out its responsibilities and duties in relation to agreements in respect of mining developments that have been negotiated under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. 
, (7) and (8) (a) Structure funded by Section 64 ( 1 ) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) Research grants awarded by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies in each year from 1976-77 to 1978-79 are listed in the Institute's Newsletters 5 to 1 1. Details of the Institute's expenditure each year on grants are provided in the Institute's Annual Reports. 
and (4) Four grants have been awarded for research overseas: Three for work overseas by Australian residents and one for work by a citizen of the United States of America. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. 
On 26 February 1979, a claim was received by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner from the Central Land Council, on behalf of Aboriginals, to an area of alienated Crown land in which all estates and interests not held by the Crown are held by, or on behalf of, Aboriginals, comprising all of the Dagaragu Pastoral Lease 805, together with Northern Territory Portion 1459. The claim was titled- The Dagaragu/Gurindji Claim. The Aboriginal Land Commissioner has not yet set a date for the hearing. 
The approximate value of the stock and other property on Gurindji land is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Aboriginal Affairs does not allocate funds directly to the Department of Housing and Construction, although it can and does on occasion release funds allocated to Aboriginal communities directly to that Department, at the request of an Aboriginal community. Such occurrences would eventuate when the Department of Housing and Construction is supervising contracts on behalf of a community, and makes progress payments to the contractor as certain stages of the work are completed. 
The practice occurs only where the community nominated as the grant recipient agrees to the Department of Housing and Construction acting as its agent In these cases letters of grant offer from my Department include specific reference to the agency role of the Department of Housing and Construction in the conditions of grant. Communities participating in this arrangement are required to acknowledge the agency agreement in their letter of acceptance. This practice is in accord with Finance Direction 23/8. 
Aboriginal communities do have the opportunity to use other agencies to assist them in housing projects, and many organisations have engaged private consultants. The Department of Housing and Construction, in addition to being engaged as consultant by a number of communities, acts as technical adviser to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in housing and other construction matters. 
Upon completion of a contract, the Department of Housing and Construction issues a Certificate of Practical Completion and a Financial Report which advises the client, in this case the Aboriginal community, of the full costs of the contract. Any surplus moneys remaining on completion of work would be returned to the client. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) Funds released by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to the two Aboriginal Legal Services in the Northern Territory in the 12 month period ending 31 October 1979, are as follows: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The present  Chairman  of Qantas Airways Limited has made 53 overseas visits since his appointment on 1 July 1 973 to 22 March 1979. Twenty-eight of these visits have been to attend meetings in his capacity as a member of the Executive Committee of International Air Transport Association and member of Executive Committee of Orient Airlines Association. Overseas travel by the Directors, including the  Chairman,  and by the General Manager and other officers is undertaken pursuant to resolution of the Board as a natural and necessary requirement for the purposes of carrying on the Company's business of international air transport with world wide services. The expenditure of Directors, including the  Chairman,  is approved by Sub-Committee of the Board and reported to the Board. 
The further information requested is of a detailed commercial nature and it has been made clear on a number of previous occasions, as Qantas operates in a commercial environment, it would not be appropriate to disclose such information. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The countries, companies, agencies and other institutions visited were: 
Japan- Minister and Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications; Sony Research Laboratory; Japan Broadcasting Corporation (NHK) and NHK Research Laboratories. 
United States- Corporation for Public Broadcasting; COMSAT General Corporation; Satellite Business System; American Telephones and Telegrams (AT &amp; T); Ford Aerospace. 
Canada- Minister and Department of Communications; TELESAT; SPAR. 
United Kingdom- British Broadcasting Corporation; Independent Broadcasting Authority; British Aerospace. 
France- Thomson-CSF; SAGEM; Ministry of Post and Telecommuncations: European Space Agency. 
and(3) The equipment shown or demonstrated was still at the experimental stage. At that time the Canadian officials estimated that the cost of an earth terminal for direct television reception at approximately $ 1 , 000 Canadian, but considered that this cost would be reduced significantly after equipment refinements. The officials were unable to give an estimated 'production cost' for the experimental receive/transmit telephony earth station. 
As the essential purpose of the visit was to obtain information on technological developments in the use of domestic communication satellites, there were no discussions regarding prospective applications of particular systems for Australian domestic uses. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1)I assume that the question refers to overseas visits specifically to obtain information on developments in the application of domestic satellites.  Mr E.  E. Payne, First Assistant Secretary, Postal and Telecommunications Department, who was  Chairman  of the Working Group at that time, accompanied me on my overseas visit in January-February 1 979.  Mr A.  F. Guster, who subsequently became  Chairman  of the Working Group, visited overseas for similar purposes in April-May 1979. 
See answer to Question 1535 in respect of the visit by  Mr Payne. Mr Guster  visited the following organisations/authorities: 
Canada- Department of Communications; SPAR; TELESAT; SED Systems Ltd. 
United States- Hughes Aircraft Corporation. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In October 1949, the Government approved a recommendation from the Postmaster-General's Department that an integrated Sydney Central Mail Exchange should be established at Redfern. 
)  Sir Giles  Chippindall was Director-General, Posts and Telegraphs, in 1949 and, in accordance with his responsibilities under the Public Service Act, was responsible for advising the Minister on all matters relating to the Department. 
No.  Sir Giles  Chippindall retired from the Public Service in 1958. He died in 1969. 
Prime Minister: Interview with Political Correspondent (Question No. 1759) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am advised that costs so borne are- 
by the Depanment of Administrative Services- nil. 
by the former Commonwealth Police- costs of investigating and presenting evidence of police witnesses 
by the New South Wales Government- provision of the court magistrate, court officials and some reporting services 
) by the New South Wales Police- not known 
by the Attorney-General's Department- costs associated with advising in relation to the proceedings and with the conduct of the proceedings including certain costs of witnesses and certain costs associated with the production and supply of depositions 
by the Depanment of Social Security- cost of a small number of clerical staff. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been advised by the Depanment of Social Security that none of the witnesses that have given evidence up to 30 September 1979 are in the care of that Depanment. The Government does not regard a person who is in receipt of a pension or benefit under the Social Services Act as being, for that reason alone, 'in the care of the Department of Social Security'. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) One- Miss Artopoulou. 
I have been advised that the Department of Social Security has not borne the costs of any travel, accommodation, food and other support nor for police protection for that witness. I understand that sums totalling $7,264.82 and chargeable against the votes of the Attorney-General 's Department have been paid to, or in respect of the attendance of, Miss Artopoulou as a witness. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to my answer to his Question No. 1321 (Senate  Hansard,15  November 1979, page 2407). 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1969-70-52.40 per cent; 1970-71-50.42 per cent; 1971-72-51.41 per cent; 1972-73-53.18 per cent; 1973-74-54.59 per cent 1974-75-61.15 per cent; 1975-76-60.08 per cent; 1976-77-60.52 per cent; 1977-78-58.02 percent and 1978-79-56.45 percent 
Details are shown on the following Table: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) New South Wales 2; Victoria nil; Queensland 1; South Australia nil; Western Australia nil; Tasmania mi; Australian Capital Territory nil; and Northern Territory nil. 
No. The agreement between Australia Post and the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia provides for the conduct of Savings Bank agency business at such post offices as may, from time to time, be mutually agreed upon by both parties. 
Australia Post undertakes to provide Savings Bank agency facilities, on behalf of the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia at those non-official post offices where the internal financial arrangements permit this to be done. 
Currently Australia Post provides banking facilities at some 70 per cent of its non-official post offices. The remaining 30 per cent of non-official post offices are generally the smaller, less patronised offices, where the financial accounting function is performed elsewhere at a larger, parent office. As it is the policy of Australia Post not to maintain a cash reserve at these smaller post offices, banking facilities are not provided. 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) From records of the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the last three available years, the estimated average annual loss of life in Australia due to fire is 162 persons. 
The average annual value of property damage for the same period, estimated from records of the Australian Fire Protection Association, is $2 80m. 
There is no accurate information on the proportion of fires in Australia caused by cigarettes as statistics are gathered by States on different bases and it is not possible to give a realistic estimate. 
Some indication might be drawn from the Fire Statistics for New South Wales which for 1 977 show that 47 percent of all fires were caused by either smoking, matches or cigarettes (noting that those caused by matches do not necessarily relate to smoking). 
Victorian Statistics for the year to 30 June 1977, from the records of the Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board Melbourne and the Country Fire Authority, indicate that smoking of tobacco was the cause of 2.0 percent of fires. However, some 42 percent of fires were listed as having unknown cause. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board Statistics for fires in Commonwealth owned and leased premises show that around 10 percent of such fires are reported to have been due to smoking. 
The Commonwealth Fire Board has advised that several fire associations are campaigning in the United States to encourage manufacturers to produce and market selfextinguishing cigarettes. It is not known whether legislation is under consideration. 
It is technically feasible to manufacture selfextinguishing cigarettes. 
Meetings of Ministers on 31 May 1979  (Question No. 2061) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) It is not the practice to divulge the nature of such advice. 
(a) and (b) 1 have prime responsibility for these matters. The Government has final control. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) There are, in all, over I.S4 million telephone services connected to some 5,050 country telephone exchanges with about 7,700 applications awaiting connection pending the completion of major cable and equipment relief. It would be impracticable to break these statistics down to individual telephone exchanges in a reasonable time. Telecom believes, however, that the incidence of applicants who cannot be provided with service without delay is such that it would not have any significant effect on the efforts of country towns to attract business. The latest studies show that for country areas, the average time taken to effect a new telephone service was of the order of 1 3 to 26 working days. This delay period is naturally longer in some country areas. 
Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory (Question No. 2113) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department has authorised DC9 and Boeing aeroplanes to take-off in visibility conditions, including fog, as low as 300m runway visual range depending on the runway lighting and marking available on the various runways. 
Operational requirements are such that the aeroplane weight should be limited to that which, in the event that a take-off is continued after an engine failure at the critical point during the take-off, the aeroplane net flight path will clear all obstructions under a straight flight path by at least 35 feet and under a curved flight path by at least 50 feet. 
The DC9 single engine performance meets the certification and operational requirements. In the worst case, where the take-off weight is limited by the minimum permissible climb performance after take-off, 500 feet net could be achieved in a distance of less than 5 nm. 
The figures given in the answers to (2) and (3) are based on net performance requirements. The net performance is derived by reducing the measured performance obtained in certification by 33.3 per cent at maximum take-off weight. This reduction is a typical example of the conservatism which is provided to ensure that the vast majority of operations are conducted with safety margins well above the minimum necessary. 
The performance data was obtained by the manufacturer under controlled tests verified by the authorities in the United States. Australian certification was granted after a detailed examination of the certification data furnished from the controlled tests. 
The requirement to clear the terrain to the north of Canberra aerodrome limits the maximum take-off weight of a DC9 taking off on runway 35. The pilot has precise take-off procedures specified in the Operations Manual which in the event of an engine failure even at the worst point in the take-off will ensure that the aeroplane will clear all the obstacles in the flight path including the high ground to the north. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Official reports of the investigation of the accident to the Swissair DC8 which crashed at Athens Airport on Sunday, 7 October 1979, have not yet been released. 
Newspapers reported that the aircraft was carrying radio active isotopes. 
The Air Navigation Orders specify the conditions under which dangerous goods may be carried aboard Australian aircraft, including airline aircraft engaged on regular public transport operations: 
the list is quite extensive, prohibiting many items but includes materials and substances that require special packaging and quantity limitations for safe carriage by air. 
those articles which are acceptable for carriage on passenger aircraft may be stowed in any underfloor locker on both DC9 and Boeing 727 aircraft. 
the conditions of carriage of articles classified as dangerous goods ensure that passengers are not exposed to additional risk when such articles are carried in passenger aircraft. 
the specifications for the carriage of dangerous goods are devised to contain the material within its packaging which is required to be absorbent in the case of liquids. In the case of radioactive materials, the requirements are based on  the  International Atomic Energy Agency regulations Tor the Safe Transport of Radioactive Materials. 
the cargo compartments of the Boeing 727 and DC9 are designed and classified as 'smother' type lockers and any fire, whether dangerous goods are carried or not, will be contained by lack of oxygen. 
Indonesian Fishermen on Australian Territory (Question No. 2181) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  ( I ), (2), (3) and (4) As this arbitration is still proceeding it would not be appropriate to supply the information sought in the question. 
Inquiry into Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme  (Question No.  2211) 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I wrote to the Member for New England on 27 September 1979. The full text of my letter was as follows: 
In accordance with established practice I have approved a two weeks wind-down period during which your Ministerial staff will continue to receive their Ministerial staff salaries. 
They will be available to assist you to clear your office until close of business on 1 1 October. Should you, or your staff at your direction, need to use official cars during this period they will be available. 
Staff who will not be continuing in your electorate could by arrangement with you use some of this time to seek other employment. ' 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Protocol related to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships is technically complex. 
So far only one non-maritime State has ratified the Protocol. 
The next step is for the Marine and Ports Council of Australia to consider the implementation of the Protocol in conjunction with the Convention. 
International Convention: Prevention of Pollution from Ships (Question No. 2228) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships is a technically complex convention. 
So far only 5 non-maritime states have ratified the convention. 
My department as a first step towards implementation has conducted a detailed survey of the need for shore reception facilities as the provision of adequate shore reception facilities is a prerequisite to becoming a party to the convention. 
The next step is for the Marine and Ports Council of Australia to consider the implementation of the Convention in Australia. 
International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage  (Question No. 2229) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Following agreement reached at the last Premier's Conference Government has agreed to the drafting of legislation to implement the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage. Upon passage of this legislation through the Parliament Australia will be able to ratify this Convention. 
International Convention: Intervention in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties  (Question No. 2230) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Following agreement reached at the last Premier's Conference Government has agreed to the drafting of legislation to implement the International Convention relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties and the Protocol Relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Marine Pollution by Substances other than Oil. Upon passage of this legislation through the Parliament Australia will be able to ratify both the Convention and the Protocol. 
International Convention: Rights in Aircraft  (Question No. 2234) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Australia signed the Convention on the International Recognition of Rights in Aircraft (Geneva Convention or 'Mortgage Convention') on 9 June 1950 but has not ratified it- Approval in principle was given to ratification in 1961 but the proposal was not proceeded with. Considerable constitutional and legal difficulties were involved in giving effect to the Convention in Australia, particularly in creating a paramount Commonwealth register of interests in aircraft and in relation to existing requirements for registration of mortgages or chattels generally in each State and Territory. The practical advantages to Australia in becoming a party to the Convention, mainly by way of assisting financing the purchase of large aircraft, were not considered sufficient to outweigh the difficulties involved in preparing the necessary legislation. The fact that a relatively small number of States (41) have ratified the Convention was also a factor in this decision. 
State and Territory law require the registration of mortgages and other interests in aircraft to ensure their validity as against third parties such as judgment creditors and liquidators in the case of companies. 
ENMOD Convention: Ratification  (Question No. 2235) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. (a ) The Location of Australian Government Employment Committee made no objection to the move after considering a submission from my Department which included the following justifications: 
1 ) Kununurra is more central to Aboriginal groups and communities in the East Kimberleys than Wyndham; 
a number of State and Commonwealth departments and agencies with which the Department's Area Office deals have their main East Kimberley offices in Kununurra; 
) the office space rental in Wyndham is inadequate and unsuitable; 
Kununurra has been designated as a regional growth centre and is the main airport for the East Kimberley area. 
Not all cost estimates are yet available, but the expected cost of the transfer is some $400,000, most of which is for the provision of five staff residences in Kununurra. 
See (a) above. 
The Department's office space in Wyndham is rented from the State Government and will become available for the use of the State Depanment of Community Welfare. 
Three residences in Wyndham occupied by staff will become available for use by other departments or for sale. 
Housing for Aboriginal People: East Kimberley District  (QuestonNo.2241) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of 25 dwellings are programmed for construction for Aboriginals in the North East Kimberley Region with funds provided by my Department in 1 979-80. 
Five residences are to be built or purchased for staff in Kununurra in 1979-80. 
The total cost of the 25 units for Aboriginals is estimated at $5 5 5, 000: 
Kununurra- 2 units at $33,000 each 
Balgo- 4 units at $52,000 each 
Guda Guda- 3 'transitional ' units at $5,000 each 
Oombulgurri- 1 2 'transitional ' units at $5,500 each 
Turkey Creek -4 units at $50,000 each. 
The 5 residences for staff in Kununurra are expected to cost $386,000. 
Two Aboriginal officers will be employed at Kununurra and a further vacancy is also expected to be filled by an Aboriginal. 
Two residences are expected to be occupied by Aboriginals. One Aboriginal officer has already secured a State Housing Commission residence in Kununurra. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. (a) The vehicle was required to replace a Departmental vehicle which required an extensive overhaul and panel work. Because of the isolation of the area it was not possible to provide a Departmental replacement vehicle. 
b ) The vehicle was hired for a total period of 56 days. 
The total cost of the hire is not yet known but it is expected to approximate $ 1,300.  1979 Wheat Harvest (Question No. 2245) 
