As a new member, let me first congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your elevation to that high office. I am sure that you will give just consideration to all us new members so that we can put forward the views of our electorates for the benefit of our people. As I commence what is only the second maiden speech of a member for the Mallee electorate, I am vividly aware of the 26 years of service and dedication of our former member,  Sir Winton  Turnbull. In his long parliamentary career,  Sir Winton  has earned the respect of all Australians, and is regarded as one of our true statesmen. The people of the Mallee electorate and the Australian Country Party here record their gratitude for the unique record of service and we wish  Sir Winton  and Lady Turnbull a long and happy retired life. 
The Mallee electorate, so named after its natural cover of eucalypt, is the largest electorate in Victoria and takes in almost onequarter of the State's land mass. Thirty substantial towns and cities are distributed throughout the region, each community being closely knit socially and culturally - a proud achievement resulting from the harsh pioneering days not so long past. Community pride and responsibility have made each centre a stable, important part of the total electorate and we wish to retain our individuality. We in the Mallee expect to share equally in the work of this nation but we also expect to share in its advantages. We do not ask for favour, but we contend that, as a part of a developing nation, our electorate, which has a huge potential, needs and is entitled to receive any incentive or amenities that are presently available or will become available to any other part of this country. 
Primary industry has been responsible for building up Australia's wealth. It is the wealth and the future of the Mallee. Its continued viability, stability and influence must not be underrated. No other electorate has such a diversity of production. Wheat production is 60 per cent of the State's total. The southern Mallee is the largest producer of quality malting barley. Production of wool, meat and dairy products from both dry land and irrigated pasture is immense. The fertility and agricultural pursuits of the Murray region of the Mallee electorate range from tobacco growing to citrus, almond, wine and fresh and dried fruit production. The northern end of our electorate is a major supplier of fresh fruit and vegetables to most Australian metropolitan markets. Many vital secondary industries and the rapidly developing tourist potential of this unpolluted, sunny and friendly Victorian province all add to the importance of my electorate. 
All this in a natura] rainfall region of from 8 to 13 inches makes water, in both quantity and quality, indispensably tied to our future. There is a real need for a strengthening of co-operation of the States and our Federal Parliament to harness, distribute and improve every available source of water. The salinity problems associated with the entire Murray Valley are of critical national significance. The investigation and reports on this problem have been completed and it is in the interests of Australia that work be commenced imme diately through the initiatives of this Parliament. The salinity report is now over 2 years old. Controversy between the Commonwealth and the States is preventing united and coordinated remedial reclamation measures being carried out. No other system has been more imaginative or successful than the WimmeraMallee channel network. It has provided life to thousands of dry land farms. But present day needs and the advantages of technology demand that a progressive pipeline scheme be undertaken in its place. The huge saving in water and labour and the future restoration of our natura] water courses make this a necessary and valid national undertaking. 
Primary production and the marketing of the produce is a source of real concern. The violent fluctuations of price and returns of those engaged in the many vital rural industries should not be part of this 20th century. In a business where production costs are governed by those not engaged in primary production, the value of this produce to the consumer should be based on the cost of production plus a reasonable  return.  The economic worth of rural produce has for too long been governed by supply and demand, and of late by the state of world currencies. A primary producer's work, his efficiency and his investment entitle him to a return equivalent to those of people in other occupations. 
The balanced development of this nation and the decentralisation of people and resources are of vital importance to my electorate. National schemes that specifically develop certain regions of growth using public finance, incentives and concessions must not exclude from them other existing towns, communities or industries. The future use of the Postmaster-General's Department and of local government will, I believe, decide the success or otherwise of Federal Government participation in balanced development. The PMG must always be regarded as a public service to this nation and its people, and not purely as a business enterprise. With 13 shire and city councils in my electorate, I am acutely aware of their huge financial commitments and increasing responsibilities. Long have past the times when local government authorities were simply road makers and collectors of garbage. Today they have to meet the needs of their ratepayers in the field of community activities and social welfare. I am convinced that local government can administer best and meet most efficiently the requirements of the community and, more importantly, the individual. Local authorities are more approachable and, notably, know the willingness of the citizens to divert resources from one use to another. It is the responsibility of the Federal Parliament to up-date the status of local authorites by providing realistic finance. Authorities should have scope for both diversity and experimentation. Local government has unique contributions to make to the quality of human existence in our changing environment. Let this Government give assistance to those who are not too tired to rely on their own efforts. 
The interests of country people and the future of rural industries as part of the national economy are my immediate concern. The re-establishment of an up-dated wheat stabilisation scheme must take into account this Government's responsibility as te future credit sales and their financing. It must take into account the fact that a 10c increase in the first advance does not cover the loss of 15c due to the currency alignments; nor does it give any guarantee as to the final payment. Improvements in the selling, preparation and marketing of the produce of our wool, dairying and meat industries in particular, are necessary. The proposed policy of this Government towards the dairy stabilisation scheme and towards imports of New Zealand butter have this industry in a state of flux. The position of all secondary industries in relation to assistance must be part of any decentralisation strategy. For the total scene of primary production, the indispensable aspect of future financing procedures must be of valuable immediate and long term help. Rural assistance requires the consideration of social as well as economic effects. 
Very strong feelings prevail at local level and throughout the hinterland of western Victoria, as to the circumstances that are inhibiting the growth of trade at the port of Portland. Portland is a superior port. Huge savings in rail freights and the ease and relative cheapness of shipping, are real economic reasons why positive Federal Government action must be taken to guarantee its future as a viable facility. Vested interests are hindering the movement of cargo to and from Portland. It must not be tolerated by this Parliament. 
I have spent considerable time on these matters simply because these issues are the life of the Mallee electorate and we are depending on this new Parliament for satisfactory legislation. This Australian nation has achieved so much in a short period of time. There is no better place on earth to live. We have an affluence and a standard of living equal to any. But change is all around us and rightly so. Our problem is one of deciding with whom or how to replace our past traditions or methods. Old friends and standards are, unfortunately, being rejected - we sincerely hope not before the new ones are proved. We are resting between 2 distinct forces - the forces of tradition and those of new ideas and aims. 
The years leading up to the turn of the century - it is a sobering thought to realise that we are less than 30 years from it - will be a period when our national character will be severely tested. Are we, for instance, a truly democratic society except perhaps by a fine balance? Are we today pleading with our governments to accept many of the responsibilities in our social and private lives that as individuals we are trying to avoid? This new Parliament, the old and new members, have the huge burden in all issues of national responsibility from defence, social welfare to education in plotting the course for the future. Our success will lie in removing the increasing internal and industrial disturbances and in halting the over-development of urbanism and its associated environmental ills. The continual conflict of rural and city interests must be removed, knowing full well that one cannot live without the other. The incidence of poverty and discrimination; the relationship between all forms of government, and the removal of unprincipled pressure groups are all vital issues for consideration. 
The total quality of life, as we have known it, is under challenge. The challenge is to respond with the skills, initiatives and the abilities of the Parliament and its people to avoid the pitfalls. Australia today is being asked to assume a more accountable and independent position in world affairs. Britain's entry into the European Economic Community is calling upon our export industries to expand and broaden their market outlets. There is an urgent need for the whole concept of tariff protection to be reviewed. Education, and its true role in linking it to the life of the community, has to become more available to all our children, encouraging them to make the most of their potential. Facilities are important, but the quality of instruction will ultimately determine the success of our system. Greater help is needed for the under-privileged and handicapped; as are greater opportunities for pre-school and technical education, practical and sympathetic continuance of plans to give our Aboriginal people their rightful place in the nation, and increased assistance to our under-developed neighbours. These are all areas for careful Government consideration. Our social welfare system must be further expanded to meet all areas of need while not creating a bigger problem where people can and do live in the city whereby initiative is sapped and productivity is reduced. Political expediency is the real danger in developing satisfactory and successful social welfare programmes. 
Sitting suspended from  6.14  to  8  p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended I was pointing out that our social welfare system must be further expanded if we are to meet all areas of need in our community. In doing this, we must not create a bigger problem, with people living off the State, initiative being sapped and productivity reduced. Political expediency is the real danger in developing satisfactory and successful welfare programmes. 
As a Country Party member representing in this Parliament a vast and aware rural electorate, I believe that rural people have a right to express their convictions through their representatives in Parliament and to share equally in the wealth and advantages of this fortunate nation. Rural people and those who live in small towns are by distance, availability and diverse interests much harder to represent effectively than those people in concentrations of population. But when the Country Party recognises these difficulties and attempts to cater for them, it is acting not only on behalf of its own interests, but also on behalf or rural citizens - some represented in this Parliament by Labor members. Good representation in government for a citizen does not stem from equal numbers of electors in electoral divisions; it does not even start there. It is born of the relationship between electors and their representatives, the availability of representation, the flow of information and ideas, and response in understanding the interests of the people and relating them to the national welfare. This Labor Government was elected because for the first time in 23 years its policies were accepted by  a  majority of Australian electors, and for no other reason. 
The people of Mallee have expressed by their vote in no uncertain manner their confidence in my Party. A prominent feature of the last election was the lack of response in rural areas to Australian Labor Party policies. I express gratitude for the work of past leaders and members of this House, and in particular I wish to mention the vigorous and energetic strength of our Leader, the right honourable Doug Anthony. Through strong and responsible leadership, the Country Party has shown this nation that the influence of rural people, by adequate representation in our national Parliament, has helped to provide stable government. 
In concluding my Address-in-Reply speech on the Governor-General's address, I wish to make only one point. Our democratic way of life has allowed us to develop an independence of thought, speech and action. But by this very freedom there is also a developing tendency towards a lack of discipline. This Federal Parliament has within its power the ability to see that we do not have to face another major adversity to make us realise that democracy, freedom and the Australian way of life we enjoy are not inevitable. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Where the PostmasterGeneral deems a postal service to be uneconomic in country areas is he contemplating a curtailment of that service and the purchase of property in lieu of providing the service? Are his Department's priorities to be determined by economic or social considerations? Are we to be one nation, one people under this Government with the Postmaster-General's Department providing similar services to all people regardless of their occupation or geographic location, or are the country people to receive departmental postal or telephone services only if they measure up to some economic criterion of the Department? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the fact that to achieve decentralisation of industry and population effectively the standardisation of commodity prices is essential, I ask: Will this Government urgently investigate the cost of the freight differential on all sources of energy - liquefied petroleum gas, distillate, petrol and so on - to country industries and people, and take steps to have this cost item equalised with metropolitan counterparts? 
I rise to speak against this Bill and in particular to speak against clause 3 of it. A rural society, because of its minuteness, particularly in relation to voting strength, but because of its strength in relation to the economy and its effect on the rest of the Australian community, has to be protected from under-representation. Our sparsely populated areas must be protected from centralisation of political control as well. The needs pf our country people, who include not only those on the land but the people and the workers in our country towns and provincial cities have needs and opinions which can be expressed only in Parliament through the voice of their chosen representative, to whatever party he belongs. This rural voice is only as strong as the numerical strength of its representation in the Parliament. The Australian Country Party is the only political party created exclusively for the purpose primarily of seeing that those in the outback, those engaged in the . rural industries and those engaged in the valuable export industries have this parliamentary expression. &lt; 
The' Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is responsible for the introduction of this Bill which relates to the distribution of the States into electoral divisions, has stated that under the Commonwealth Electoral Act Western Australia is in need of a further seat. We agree, but it is' also the only State that at this stage requires an alteration in the electoral boundaries. I. suggest that the last election was significant for the lack of support by country people for this Government, and I have not the slightest hesitation in saying that at this stage support for this' Government must be at an all time low in rural areas. Hence the desire of the Australian Labor Party ro attempt to consolidate its position by electoral alterations. 
It is not and must not be accepted that the Australian Country Party will, as a result of sarcasm, criticism or abuse, be a party to a redistribution or any other alteration to our electoral laws which will deprive those people living in country areas of their rights. We are justified in rejecting this Bill on the principle that the remoteness and distance of country areas from the centres of administration disadvantage representation and the fact that relatively bad communication facilities show no signs of any continual improvement under this Government are real reasons for retaining our present electoral system. The sections of the legislation relating to remoteness and unanimity of interests are vital to future adequate and equal representation. The way the supporters of this Bill speak in debate leads us to believe that our electoral system brings into conflict rural and urban interests, that there is a division and will be a division between rural and urban people. I can only say, and I can be certain of this, that the implementation of this legislation will create such a division. 
The Australian Country Party thinks of people in no such way. In the long run real democratic government, real equality of representation or real equality in the value of votes is achieved only by ensuring that all members of this Parliament have an equal opportunity to represent the people in their electorates. There are fewer people in country areas in comparison with city areas, but they are producing more and are performing valu-able functions and must keep performing these functions if this nation is to remain healthy. In terms of human political values and because of their efficiency their voice is diminishing. More than 60 per cent of Australia's exports flow from rural Australia. It is plainly in the national interest to see that this is sustained. It can be sustained in a political democracy only as long as there is a voice to represent country people and as long as this voice has some numbers behind it to render it effectual. 
All rural members of Parliament in this House, irrespective of Party loyalty or affiliation, must surely recognise the basic fact that people cannot be seen in terms of a mathematical formula. Legislators can only truly represent their interests, whether social, political or economic, by having a voice to speak for them. Surely the problems of size, of communication and of geography, which affect the ability of a member of Parliament to confer with his electorate, are obvious even to any person who has never been outside a city. Yet the proposal of the Labor Party is to increase even further the size and, simultaneously, the problems caused by this very factor. Will the Government and the likeable, yet comical, Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  next suggest that country people, because of their population, can also make do with fewer churches, schools, telephones or postal services? 
If examples are to be taken as any guide, numerous examples can be produced to prove that our system not only is one of the most notable for electoral equality but is also one of the world's best in most other aspects. What people really want is good and balanced representation. Good representation where a Federal member looks outside his city office and sees the rooftops of all his constituents in a compact area is quite different from good representation of constituents by a Federal member of Parliament Who comes from a rural area made up of farmers and small towns, with their many interests, backgrounds, economic problems and diversities. When the Country Party attempts to do something tangible about these difficulties by recognising and catering for them, Labor screams 'gerrymander' and insists that the Country Party is manipulating on behalf of its own interests and not in an attempt to help those rural citizens, three-fifths of whom are represented in this Parliament by members other than Country Party members of Parliament. 
An exact equality of electors in every electorate cannot be achieved and therefore a reasonable variation has to be allowed if redistributions are not to become an annual event. At present the average overall margin of allowance of our 41 rural seats is below 10 per cent, yet these are the seats under challenge and under discussion. This raises the real question of why any alteration of electoral boundaries is being attempted. Surely this Labor Government has sufficient confidence in its policies and in its abilities to believe that it can attract enough support from the Australian people without having to attempt to assure political immunity to boundary alterations. This is the first time for 2 decades that the Australian Labor Party has had the policies to attract a sufficient majority of people. Our democratic system allowed it to be voted into office. The essential part of our democratic system is that it does allow any Party, large or small, any organisation or any individual to run for parliamentary office and have some confidence in the result. Any dramatic alteration of our electoral laws, as proposed here, will not alter the vital composition of this place as regards ideology or philosophy, but democracy will be threatened in that it will make for the tyranny of a 2-party system. 
The percentage number of votes polled in any election in relation to the number of seats held is a useless and unsound comparison. Such a percentage looks good or bad depending on the number of ultra-safe seats held by any Party or vice versa and naturally also on the number of seats contested. It is most decidedly a challenge to those who sit in this place to stand up and be counted on whether Australia is to have continued democratic rule and opportunity or whether the will of any one Party is to dominate our legislature. The great responsibility of Government and of this Parliament is for all people to be truly represented not only in number but also by the views and the needs of all people living in metropolitan and rural areas. 1 ask the Committee to vote against the Bill. 
The Australian Country Party supports in the broad the 3 Bills being debated today. The adequate provision of satisfactory library resources is a vital factor in promoting the development of our colleges of advanced education. The $5m provided as an unmatched grant in the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1973 will be used in the current triennium to assist in the upgrading of many libraries to a satisfactory level. Further grants for libraries must be extended not only for advanced education facilities but also for many inadequate libraries at the secondary level. The Swan Hill High School in my electorate - this is an outstanding example - caters for up to 1,000 students, but it is severely restricted by a library area and a composition so inadequate that many schools one-quarter the size have better facilities. The glaring library needs at al) levels of education must therefore be corrected and given a high priority. 
The provision of other grants in this Bill and in the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) will also help to mitigate the extreme shortage of social workers particularly for work in the field of education. This is to be commended. The pressures of 20th century living in complex city and urban areas will require a continuing and expanding number of qualified people prepared to work in this vital area of human responsibility. While realising that the demand and necessity for social workers is in the cities, the destitute and distressed exist in all of our communities and at all levels of our educational system in rural Australia, necessitating the provision of an adequate supply of professionally qualified social workers. The visit of a social worker to some of our schools or other areas of social security once or twice every year, as occurs in many country areas at present, is entirely unsatisfactory and for that reason also this grant is to be commended. 1 turn now to the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1973. I believe that the Federal Government assistance to all levels of our education system is desirable and has to be expanded. From the amount of $3m being made available the Australian National University will receive $69,000 and the balance will be made available to other State universities and some colleges of advanced education, lt is to be administered by respective universities and assistance will be given in the forms of grants or loans, depending on individual circumstances. These will help to pay fees, other allowances and approved educational expenses. While in agreement with the general concept of assistance proposed by this legislation, and taking into account the proposals by the Government for the abolition of all tertiary fees in 1974 - and this, of course, will be the subject of further discussion at another time  -  I wish to take this opportunity briefly to examine the relationship of Federal Government assistance in the future, as apart from any discussion on student fees. 
I wish to look also at the administration of any such assistance and in particular from the viewpoint of my electorate and other rural electorates at the value of such aid in promoting an equality of opportunity for educational achievements as related to children living in rural areas. It is noteworthy that in this Bill not only students from low income families can expect aid, but also special circumstances such as death, injury or serious illness of breadwinners can also be used as qualifications for financial assistance. The dismantling of family income by exceptional misfortunes such as floods, droughts and/or bushfires is covered by clauses contained in the proposed legislation. I concur entirely with these provisions. 
The financing of education will place huge stresses upon available funds in the years ahead and it will be vital that the best value be obtained for every dollar made available by the Federal Parliament. Whilst it is not appropriate now to discuss the overall financing of education, the importance of this Bill in relation to other aspects prompts me to mention some of those issues now. A vital question relates to the level of government support that this nation should and can devote to education, and what relationship it should have to private support and income obtained from student charges. The trend is, I feel, to show a growing reliance on public and government schools and a growing dependence by all schools on public funds. 
I am aware that this Parliament realises that the ability and the willingness of the Australian people to embark on a program of increased public expenditure depends mainly on our economic growth, an acceptable tax level, and naturally upon other demands upon our resources. Personally, I believe that a total effort combining all sources of finance will be necessary in future and also a continuing diffusion of support to meet our educational needs will bring about a better balance of responsibility. 
Student charges have increased considerably over the last decade. Whilst they are still an important part of financing our institutions, the gap between charges and costs is rapidly becoming greater. This is obviously caused by far greater enrolments in combination with the provision of better facilities and the continued rise in general costs, particularly in salaries of staff. Student charges are an emotional issue and full of complexities, but they are a vital part of the structure and the difficulty is in deciding how much students should be charged and how much is the Government or public responsible. 
There are probably 2 ways to look at higher or tertiary education. The first is that it is a social necessity and therefore requires the maximum social expenditure. The second is that tertiary education is a personal investment, an individual desire for more lucrative employment opportunities or a desire simply to broaden intellectual and academic capabilities. Therefore it is regarded by many as being largely the responsibility of the individual. Having briefly mentioned those thoughts, in an attempt to highlight the alternatives for the future financing of education, I return to the Bill and to government assistance. I am far from convinced, for instance, that our scholarship system is serving our young people satisfactorily, and I am not convinced that such a system will remain free from political interference or manipulation. I am concerned that many of our students are being channelled into occupations simply because present assistance by scholarship or studentship is available in some areas - for example, teaching or nursing - while alternative areas of study, particularly in engineering, veterinary, medical and dental courses are virtually unobtainable without private financial backing. 
I am also concerned not only that many of our students, and particularly rural children, have limited opportunities to make use of our scholarship system, but also that the knowledge of any available assistance provided for in the Bill is not freely available to secondary headmasters far enough in advance of an academic year. Secondary students apply in August for entry to universities and colleges of advanced education. It should therefore follow that students should know of any financial assistance available and whether an application within the needs category is worthwhile. From an administrative point of view, I think it would be preferable to involve high school principals in the decision of need because, firstly, they have generally known students and their families for up to 6 years in an educational relationship. Secondly, they have sometimes already awarded help such as by requisites, maintenance or relief grants. 
The 283 students from this year's enrolment of 2,980 at Monash University in Melbourne who have been granted deferment of their courses mainly for lack of finance will, as will others in similar circumstances, no doubt derive real benefit from this Bill as they should, but concern lies with those students who could not see their way clear even to consider enrolment in the first place. On the surface, some dangers exist in large institutions such as the University of Melbourne - which has about 17,000 students - having to administer this assistance. I hope that the Minister will have established satisfactory arrangements for the distribution to real areas of need. I believe that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  dealt with the matter quite adequately and in depth when he spoke earlier in the debate. 
Even with the abolition of tertiary fees, country students in particular will need con tinuing assistance from government sources. The provision of more tertiary opportunities in country areas, the provision of hostels for students travelling excessive distances and a scheme of guidance into educational and vocational opportunities, which are of so much more value to a country child than to a city child who has a variety of facilities close at hand, will all help to alleviate these difficulties. I realise that this Bill is only a stop gap measure, but I believe that it is a worthwhile contribution to the advancement of educational equality. Such measures always display to me the need for a reorganisation of our assistance program so that all needy students have not only availability of finance but also are able to undertake courses of their choice at any institution of tertiary education. 
I believe that many degrees today are being allowed to be lost in a sea of meaningless ones. Universities are being flooded with students who are unable to enter the commercial world. Teachers are having to multiply their jobs without in many instances expanding their teaching. This Bill specifically refers to students desiring or entering tertiary education. In view of the tendencies towards a rush of students into these educational areas, due consideration must urgently be given to assistance to all young people wishing to enter all forms of education. I feel that the need for such a Bill as this displays the inadequate state of our assistance to all needy students. Perhaps now is the time to consider alternative means of government support so that every student is able to enter into any course available with the maximum of opportunity and initiative. 1 suggest that a system of interest free student loans should be made available. This also would have a number of practical and political advantages. Loans could be made available to all needy students irrespective of their level of ability, a condition which restricts the scholarship system. Loans are also of a temporary and repayable nature and of a recurring benefit to students and governments alike; outright grants are not. Most importantly, loans give students the desire and incentive to advance by their initiative and ability without financial difficulty. 
The Bill will do much to give support to many students through the provision of an extra $3m. But it must not be forgotten in future planning for education in Australia that opportunity and equality go together. The opportunity for education is a little like the right to vote - it may not always be exercised but it must always be available. I and the Australian Country Party support the Bills being discussed together today and I wish to congratulate the Minister for Education for introducing these vital Bills so promptly. I feel that some consideration should be given to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Chisholm as it perhaps will do much to facilitate future planning. 
It is not my wish to delay the business of the House for any great period of time, but I wish to mention one or two points in connection with the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill 1973. The importance of technical training as part of our educational system must be fully appreciated if we are to avoid having too many of our students being forced, because of lack of adequate technical facilities, into a university when their qualifications and inclinations are for an alternative career. The comparative neglect of technical education stems partly from the higher prestige accorded to academic studies and partly from a persistent belief that utilitarian schools cannot be intellectually respectable. Or as  Sir Mark  Oliphant said: There is a growing snobbery developing about education in Australia'. 
This Bill provides for an additional $ 10m to the sum of $36m already made available by the previous Government. It is absolutely essential that new buildings and equipment be provided, not only to replace old facilities but also to establish new schools in areas where technical facilities are not at present available. The Mallee electorate covers about onequarter of Victoria. Its constituents, who are evenly distributed throughout the electorate, have only 3 technical schools. One of those schools, at Irymple near Mildura, exists only because of the foresight and work of individual teachers and committees established by local grower co-operatives which provided finance in the early stages of the school's development. 
The purchase of additional land by existing technical schools and for new complexes has become a real problem, not only in city areas but also in rural regions. The amendment to the principal Act to allow for this purpose is to be commended. I appreciate that this Bill is purely an interim measure. I realise that a significant increase has occurred every year in the realisation of the importance of technical education. However, it is still a poor relation in the education system. The pressures on the universities today have become especially intense, pardy because of the natural desire of young people to proceed to higher levels of education in the interests of their own development and partly from a valid conviction that a university degree is a passport to a highly paid occupation and first rate career prospects in the longer term. I believe that recently there has "been a turnabout and today technical education is in real demand. 
However, technical education extension has not kept pace with the demand or with the changes that are taking place in industry, and in particular with, the urgent need for more  and better trained technicians. There are today exciting openings in most areas of industry, both public and private. There are tremendous opportunities for skilled technicians in many areas of research in this country with good salary prospects and occupations that will be much more rewarding than finishing a routine university degree. I and the Australian Country Party support this Bill because we believe that the future development of Australia and the development of many of our young people relies heavily on a rapid expansion of technical facilities. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade. Did the Minister claim in Press statements on 19 and 24 May that trading opportunities had been denied to Australian producers because die previous Government failed to realise political realities? Is the Minister not aware 'of the fact that in the past 10 years Australia sold over , $k000m worth of wheat and over S200m worth, of other produce to China? Is it not  a  fact that the China wheat market  was  regained last year when Australia sold a million tom of wheat to China in December? 
Finally why did the Minister not acknowledge in his statement of 24 May that last week's sugar sale was not the first, as his statement clearly meant to imply it was? 
The Australian Country Party gives support to this Bill relating to the administration of our electoral laws. The continual increase in our population and the technological advances which have brought substantial changes not only to office administration but also to the preparation of rolls have created huge stresses and demands not only upon this administration but also and more importantly upon the individual staff members in our electoral offices. Governments and the electors are looking for the maximum of efficiency in the conduct of elections and it is desirable that the results of elections are known as quickly as possible. People today are more politically aware. They are constantly in search of knowledge not only about voting procedures but also about other things which will require adequate research. The influx of migrants to our nation and the granting of full franchise to our Aboriginal people mean that the demands upon the officers and their staff to disperse this knowledge has increased. 
It is significant also that this Bill allows the electoral officers to take steps in connection with and for the conduct of an election or ballot within the confines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Clause 5, sub clause (5) of this Bill deals specifically with these functions. By giving statutory form to the Australian Electoral Office, this Parliament is giving it substantial powers and functions and, more importantly, allowing these functions to be exercised free of political control and without fear or favour. 
The most important aspect of this Bill, however, is that it paves the way to responsibly upgrading the status of the officers and, I sincerely hope, the staff operating our electoral system. There is at present little incentive for employment or promotion within this system. A district returning officer has only recently had his rating lifted from a class 5 position to a class 6. The clerks are rated only as class 2 or 3 which is only one step above the base public servant grade. With little chance of promotion to district returning officer under 10 years and virtually no opportunity for further promotions, it is little wonder that staff recruitment for these offices has been difficult. District returning officers have not only the responsibilities of running elections and of conducting the census but also have had recently the added work of introducing into the rolls recently a large number of 18, 19 and 20-year-old voters and this has shown up the weakness in the resources of our electoral offices. 
In my electorate of Mallee where the District Returning Officer and his staff are housed in a large Commonwealth office block with other government departments, it is demoralising to them that they are the lowest rated in status in that office block. The District Employment Officer has a rating of 6 and most of the PMG officers range from 7 and 8 up to class 10. Understaffing is a continual difficulty. Two officers are normally expected to handle up to 14,000 notations a year but recently, no doubt because of the added load of the new voters, up to 1,000 cards have had to be handled each week. Discussion with some of the district returning officers tends to reveal that the computerisation of the electoral roll involves them in added specialisation requiring administrative skills and additional application. 
I do not believe it is necessary to speak at great length on this Bill. I have the highest regard for the. dedication of our electoral officers and it is personally pleasing to speak briefly in their support. Morale has been low and it is only to be expected that good clerks find it unattractive to wait 10 years for promotion, plus the further prospect of 25 to 30 years of working life with little chance of further promotion. The Country Party supports the Bill and joins with the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and the honourable member of Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  in their remarks. We sincerely hope that this measure will raise the status and the salary of the electoral officers and, I stress, also their staff and will relate their working conditions to their importance so that they may operate successfully in a democratic electoral system. 
The Australian Country Party is pleased to see that the Government has supported the decision of the previous Government to grant up to $2.1m to South Australia for assistance in constructing a pipeline which will cost over $5m. The Lock-Kimba pipeline in some respects resembles the Millewa pipeline project which is planned in my electorate of Mallee. I have in mind the number of farms to be serviced and the natural environmental and agricultural conditions. This pipeline at present is also under construction as a result of a similar grant from the former Government. In these areas water is a limiting factor with regard to both human and stock life. These areas have a low natural rainfall, high evaporation rates and high annual consumption. In this age of technological sophistication and of tremendous improvements in personal standards of living, schemes such as this must be completed with all haste to provide for people who are prepared to suffer no small amount of personal hardship, particularly in relation to education, cost of services and means of communication. At least a reliable water supply will give these people the security that such a supply can offer. 
One of the main reasons that this project was deferred in 1970 was that the expenditure involved was considered inappropriate in view of the low prices being  obtained  for wool. The position, of course, has changed considerably now. Not only are wool and sheep meat products competing in a more satisfactory, economic and viable state; cattle production also has expanded, giving rise to diversification. A reliable water reticulation scheme to each individual property will have a further stabilising effect on production and income, allowing a continuation of this diversification. There are many regions in Australia where future pipeline schemes will be necessary to bring water to towns and properties. Water must be available to supply their needs. Many existing open channel systems that have served an essential purpose in the past will have to be replaced with piped supplies so that future requirements can be met. The huge annual losses through evaporation must be reduced if there is to be a reliable water supply to serve not only existing needs but also future increased consumption. 
The Lock to Kimba scheme will service an area of 259 hectares taking in about 270 properties and including the township of Kimba, with a population of approximately 900, and also other smaller community centres. The successful implementation of this project is economically important for the State of South Australia as well as for the immediate farming districts which the pipeline will serve, but perhaps its real value is not in monetary terms; rather is it its aesthetic value. Nearly all land holders in this region have at some time or other had to cart water for stock and home purposes. This has happened at frequent intervals and on occasions the State Government has even had to rail water to the district. The satisfaction of having a garden, lawns and orchards can now be appreciated and enjoyed because of this future reliable water source. 
The Australian Country Party supports this scheme as have honourable members from both sides of the House. The Commonwealth must continue to make grants for projects of this nature that guarantee the future comfort and security of all our people whether they live in rural or urban areas. I know that our new Country Party member in the South Australian Parliament,  Mr Peter  Blacker, concurs with this Bill as does the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  The Federal Government's decision to continue the former Government's policy of water conservation and reticulation is to be commended. We support this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the concern of all the people along the River Murray system in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia for an adequate supply of quality water, could the Prime Minister state his Government's position and attitude to the completion of the Dartmouth Dam in the light of conflicting statements in the weekend Press to the effect that the Prime Minister said there should be a delay in the project whereas the Minister for Immigration said that there should not be? 
Tomorrow I will be distributing to all honourable members of this Parliament an article reprinted from the 'Sunraysia Daily' and written by its editor,  Mr George  Tilley. The brochure puts forward a proposal for a north-south highway linking Darwin and Mildura. A small but enthusiastic group of men is now working to promote this proposal which could be Australia's highway to the future. The idea is one that could open up an enormous area for development, tourism, transport and defence, but it has to have the backing of governments if it is to succeed. Australia at the present time does not have a north-south road. Despite the lessons learned when Australia was threatened with invasion from Japan and Australia's north had no road links with the south, nothing has since been done. Since then Australia has developed rapidly along its coastal strip and in the west. Darwin has blossomed into a rich tropical city and Mount Isa has become one of the three fastest growing cities in Australia. Today Mount Isa has a population of 29,000, which by 1975 could easily grow to 35,000. It has the largest lead mine in the world and is the major world source of copper, silver and zinc. 
By contrast Broken Hill, once Australia's top mining city, is slowly dying. The northsouth highway would link Mildura with Broken Hill, Mount Isa and Darwin. By tourism alone it would help to rejuvenate Broken Hill. In June a committee consisting of representatives from the district's 3 municipalities and a number of interested businessmen met, and it is attempting to set up committees at Boulia and Mount Isa to form a central region with a northern region committee to be established at Tennant Creek-Darwin. The north-south highway would be of direct benefit to all States except Tasmania and Western Australia but as a tourist route would benefit Tasmanians wanting to cross Australia's centre. The highway would connect by the shortest distance the most highly developed southern parts of Australia with the most highly developed northern areas. For Victoria, it would make Mildura the gateway to the north. 
The suggested route of the highway by the North-South Highway Committee is Mildura, Broken Hill, Boulia, Mount Isa, Tennant Creek and Darwin. The connecting of Broken Hill and Mount Isa, via Boulia, would couple a network of highways by the shortest possible route. North from Broken Hill, the Silver City Highway to the Queensland border would need upgrading, with new highway construction being required northwards to connect with the sealed northern Australian highway network at Boulia. From Brisbane connection to the suggested highway could be made by upgrading of the Charleville-Quilpie-Windora road. As the gateway to the north, Mildura is already linked by the Sturt Highway from the east and west, the Calder-Sunraysia Highway, the Henty and Western Highways group in tha south, and the Northern, Loddon Valley and Murray Valley Highways group in the south cast. Broken Hill is linked to the south by the Silver City Highway and to the east and west by the Barrier Highway. 
For the inland and the developing north, the highway would provide the shortest route to Australia's major production and consumer areas which would result in lower costs and a stimulation of commerce. Road trains can be operated in the western division of New South Wales, which includes Wentworth. As part of the hub of the 3 States, road transport north out of Wentworth could cut transport costs dramatically to match sea freight to Darwin and other northern points. Freight costs would also be lower than any existing or proposed land connections whether road or rail. Road transport associations are showing a keen interest in this economic possibility, particularly as it would tie in with the beef roads of the north and the movement of beef to the south - especially in drought circumstances. The highway, of course, would increase the development of Darwin as an international point because distribution and receival of goods by land would be easier for a greater part of Australia. The highway naturally could make the Sunraysia district, Broken Hill and Mount Isa major inland transport and population centres. Rail and air services already serving these centres will assist with the decentralisation and development that could result. 
Further, development would eventuate as service centres sprang up along the route. The population could fan out along the highway. 
From the point of view of tourism the highway would open up enormous parts of the interior with greater ease and comfort for overseas and Australian tourists. With longer holidays and more reliable vehicles the average Australian is now looking for more distant holiday places. Tourist interests along the highway would include Australia's newest and largest national park through which the route proposed by the Committee passes in the south-west corner of New South Wales. 
As a defence road the highway would be invaluable. The only inland north-south road is from Alice Springs to Darwin. The coastal highways are vulnerable. There is not even a good all-weather road connecting Queensland and the Northern Territory. The suggested highway could be defended probably even better than the part way highway-railway system which now exists. Another advantage would be the connection that the highway would have with the proposed natural gas pipeline. A pipeline runs at present from Gidgealpa to Adelaide. The proposed pipeline is to run from Gidgealpa to Sydney. The suggested highway would cut right across that pipeline and would be of value during construction of the pipeline. The pipeline is to be extended not only east to Sydney but also west to link up with Palm Valley. The Federal Inland Development Organisation, which has been submitting a similar proposal but for a highway further to the east of the nation has accepted the Sunrasia concept. The northsouth highway is a workable and highly necessary project. It should have the backing of all States and the Commonwealth and should be built even if it has to be a toll road for the early years of its existence. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim that I have been misrepresented and my electorate has been misrepresented. In 9 different elections over a period of some 27 years the Country Party candidate in the electorate of Mallee has had the preferences counted only once. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister for Defence, by informing him that townspeople and primary producers along both sides of the Murray River system have been striving for days to contain the worst floods in that area in living history. Thousands of acres of farming land have already been inundated but to date stock losses have been minimal owing to the complete co-operation of shire, police, State Rivers and Water Supply Commission and all other State authorities working with local volunteers. However, today the districts of Kerang and Swan Hill are facing a renewed and critical threat and I ask the Minister: If a request is forthcoming from civil defence officials who are meeting this morning will he make available Army support to the hundreds of exhausted volunteers who are reaching the end of their physical endurance patrolling and reinforcing flood protection measures? 
Last month as I sat in this chamber and listened intently to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  deliver the first Labor Budget for some 24 years I reflected that a quarter of a century is rather a lengthy time for a party to have been in Opposition. However, during that time we have seen this nation develop at an unprecedented rate. During this time the standard of personal living and affluence of the people of this nation raced ahead of that in most other nations and I could not but feel amazed that this Government, after so many years and so many election promises and after having set itself up as champion of the small man, the wage earner and the small business man, could introduce a Budget so devoid of any policy to deal with the crippling rate of inflation. One could not help but be disturbed that the very thing - inflation - that was eating away at the wage earner's dollar, that was having severe effects upon the people on fixed incomes, particularly our pensioners, was not only to be allowed to race on unchecked but also was to be encouraged and assisted. 
I believe we are seeing an obsession to transfer resources from the private sector of our community to the public sector, a transfer of support from the productive sector into the unproductive areas of our economy. Of course, a balance is always needed and advances must continue to be made in fields of social welfare and education but if the source of these advances, the growth and wealth producing areas of our economy, are restricted or hamstrung and if the scourge of inflation is allowed to race on unimpeded, the Government will end up robbing the very people it makes a sham and a pretence of representing. Education and social welfare have been given top priority in the Budget, as they should be in any Budget, and while this is not the place to debate fully these 2 vital areas of government responsibility, I commend the government for many of the measures undertaken. The increased spending on education of some 15 per cent over the previous Liberal-Country Party Government allocation must boost particularly those new areas of learning that changing times, circumstances and public awareness are demanding. 
I cannot refrain from expressing my support for the special assistance to be given to children from disadvantaged families and to the many schools throughout many areas of this nation whose facilities are not yet up to the appropriate standard. But I ask the Government: Why in its assesment of educational deficiency has it turned a full circle and imposed a system of discrimination? Why has it turned away from the previous system of per capita grants which enabled interested parents to add to government allocations by the fruits of their own efforts? The removal of this principle in 1975 will affect up to 30 per cent of all schools which under a most unusual system of categorisation are to receive less assistance than they did under the former Government. The Government is carrying through aid programs for education and applying this principle to schools which cater for many of our disadvantaged and handicapped children. A judgment of such schools based only on the capital value of assets or facilities and not on the particular needs and requirements of children and parents served by that institution is wrong. These severely disadvantaged schools will be very seriously affected. The voluntary schools for the deaf, blind, crippled and many of our handicapped children, schools that have been supported and financed by parents who in the past have banded together out of sheer necessity should be entitled to the same level of aid as any' future or present government school catering for children with the same type of handicap. The interest and participation of parents is a significant factor in a successful education system. It should be fostered and developed and not severed as this method of school classification will ultimately do. 
I turn now to those areas of the Budget that affect the Australian citizens I represent, the rural people. These people have withstood many crises over past years. They have had a severe rural recession, have periodically had to compete with the elements, floods, droughts and other natural disasters. The wage earners in rural areas have suffered from unemployment, as has any wage earner in any metropolitan area. Under the previous Government they had rightly expected and received programs of assistance and protection. This Budget foreshadows what is slowly but surely proving to 'be a complete demolition of past protection for rural workers, business people and primary producers. As Budget legislation is being introduced into the Parliament not only is the total vagueness of the Budget Speech being realised but the grim campaign of hate and deception against rural Australia and against all forms of private enterprise is unfolding. The impact of this Budget upon one-third of our population who live outside urban areas will be immediate. 
Over the years many private businesses have developed employment opportunities under natural growth conditions to the benefit of this nation. Many private firms have secured significant export markets with the assistance of the former Government's incentive schemes but now they must regard future expansion with doubt with the Labor Government's obvious lack of affinity in continuing this initiative. The availability of finance or growth has always been the major problem for small private business people and companies but with the proposed increases in taxation to 47i per cent - the same as the taxation rate for public companies which have adequate finance sources - it will further prune the gap between operating costs and profits, leaving little or no room for expansion of private business enterprises. 
In a wild headlong lunge at multi-national organisations which possibly are best poised to absorb even a Labor government's extermination program this Budget will have the opposite effect of damaging successful family businesses and companies. In the wine industry this is particularly notable. All the major wine producers in my electorate of Mallee are family owned and controlled. The proposed change in the basis of stock valuation will financially damage these producers, not the large foreign owned or locally owned companies with unlimited availability of finance. Local brandy grape suppliers who have operated under concessional conditions in the past, owing mainly to the lack of diversity that exists in the manufacture from their raw produce, must now operate unprotected with other producers of potable spirits. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  speaks of funds that may be necessary to assist in reconstruction if any sections of the fruitgrowing industry are affected. My fruit growers do not want reconstruction. They only desire and deservedly expect some level of protection to operate in conditions comparable to the structure of wage costs and operating costs existing in the rest of the nation. 
During the general election campaign all political parties laid great emphasis upon the policies of financial support to local government authorities and to a determination of a successful balanced development program financed with support from the Federal Government. Country shires and municipalities which along with most local government bodies have been struggling to control a worsening financial burden did not even rate a mention in the Budget of 1973. In fact the amended Grants Commission legislation is only creating confusion and concern. Municipalities must be told quickly the guidelines for proposals on regionalisation and Federal assistance. They must know if this Labor Government is going to honour its election promise. Good government and good management is found closest to the people at local government level and Federal assistance is urgently needed to supplement the valuable social and community programs that are at this time being restricted by a lack of funds and the impossibility of ratepayers to absorb further rate increases. 
This Government has shown by so many anti-decentralisation actions in the Budget that it is not genuinely concerned about the future viability and prosperity of rural Australia or for that matter about the many environmental and social evils of disadvantaged metropolitan living. Government supporters talk of grandiose schemes of artificial control and growth but they are not even prepared to support existing communities with the conditions ideally suited to spontaneous natural growth. In fact, the exact opposite will take place. The Government intends to phase out support to essential air services by 30 June 1974 and to phase out support for developmental air services over a period of 4 years. The Government has applied extreme penalties on country newspapers by unrealistic postage increases and on country commercial radio stations by huge increases in licensing fees, lt has further penalised rural people by extreme increases in telephone and postal charges. As well, of course, the Government has removed the freight differential arrangements on petrol making the petrol increase in country areas up to 7c above the price that existed before the Budget. The 5c excise on petrol will affect all Australian citizens but an extra 2c per gallon represents discrimination against those people who are living further from metropolitan areas. 
Many of my Country Party colleagues have spoken in great detail of the effect of many changes in our electorates that have occurred as a result of this Budget but I wish to mention some principal variations to the former Liberal-Country Party policies that will now apply in relation to telephone subscribers and postal services. Firstly, telephone rentals will be raised from $27 or $37 to $55 annually. Subscribers to non-continuous exchanges will experience a rise from $8 to $35 which is nearly 500 per cent. New connections will go up from $50 to $60. A 20c connection fee per call will apply to operator connected calls where subscriber trunk dialling is in use. Of course, the really damaging change to people in country areas who are not yet connected to a telephone service is that line plant will be provided and maintained only up to 8 kilometres. 
As the honourable member for Calare has just stated it is about 5 miles instead of a radius of 15 miles under the previous Government's policy. Beyond this radius, of course, telephone subscribers will have to contribute to the cost of providing the service. Even private bag and postal box rentals will be increased by 50 per cent. The Country Party has always regarded rural dwellers as equal citizens of this nation and as people who are entitled to the level of service which is provided to others by government institutions. I express extreme concern at these new measures that put the boot right into the rural sector of the economy. 
I wish for a moment to go back to Budget increases in relation to postage rates on country newspapers. The present postal bill for just 26 regional dailies in Australia is approximately $160,000 per annum and with the 300 per cent increase that is to occur in March 1974 the postage costs for these 26 papers will rise to $640,000 per annum. This estimate does not include the scores of weekly, twiceweekly and tri-weekly publications that are providing a vital service to rural subscribers throughout this nation. Proprietors of these newspapers will not be able to subsidise these rates. The increases naturally will be passed on to the subscribers. An average p.per which now costs 8c will cost a minimum of 15c in March 1974. Regional newspapers published in the eastern States alone have a daily circulation of 350,000, serving a population of 1.7 million or 12.8 per cent of the people living in Australia. The whole strategy of the Budget and this issue in particular has obviously been against country people, not only rural communities but these living in regional cities. It becomes more than obviously discriminatory when we learn that in the proposed category ratings of newspapers trade union publications will be the only ones still to receive the old concessional postage rates. 
I turn now to those parts of the. Budget that particularly discriminate against primary producers. The election campaign saw a wooing of rural electors by the Australian Labor Party with policies attractive to man/ producers who had forgotten past unjust treatment by Labor governments. Who could resist the promise of rural credit at 3 per cent interest? This policy was widely canvassed by my neighbour the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  Who could resist this statement of his in the Riverina Press on 22 November 1972: 
Independent schools will die in 10 years unless there is a new deal. 
We have seen the new deal that has been dealt out to many independent schools which are serving isolated children in rural Australia. 
This Government is condemned by its double standards - one standard used by Australian Labor Party candidates with glowing promises and gimmicks at election time and the real one that uses the rural people as scapegoats for unprecedented Government spending. Let us look at what happened yesterday in this House when the Meat Export Charge Bill 1973 was introduced.. The Treasurer had stated in the Budget Speech that meat exporters would be charged a levy of lc per lb, a cost to the industry of $18m in a full year. But what did we find yesterday? The Minister for Immigration, a rural spokesman in this House representing the vast meat producing electorate of Riverina, announced that this levy on beef export products would not be lc per lb as stated in the Budget but had been increased to 1.6c per ,b, a rise of 60 per cent. In a pathetic attempt to pass this sectional charge off as insignificant the Minister stated: 
Currently there is a strong demand for Australian meats and in these circumstances it is not expected that the charge will be passed back to the livestock producers. 
Just who does he expect will foot the Bill? Of course it will be the meat producer. 
This Budget is a direct blow to all rural people. It will penalise rural industries at a time when incentives for increased production should be encouraged. Either this Labor Government has to make a brutal attack on rural people in an effort to finance its wild spending spree or it has a basic ignorance of the true position of rural citizens and producers in our economy. The interjections that are coming from the Australian Country Party section of this chamber indicate that those honourable members entirely agree with this view. I am quite sure that many metropolitan Labor members on the other side of the House are completely ignorant of the position of country Australia. In a survey released yesterday a firm of economic research consultants pointed out that while productivity from farm workers had been 20 per cent above that from all other sections of the community, producers' incomes had grown at an average rate of only 3.4 per cent a year between 1962-63 and 1972-73 compared to a 7.2 per cent rise in average weekly earnings. 
This Budget penalises productivity. It will have a dampening effect on the initiative and enterprise that has made Australia's primary producers the most efficient in the world. Rural people have not been responsible for the increasing rate of inflation. In fact, they have kept absorbing inflationary pressures generated by other sections of the community. I cannot accept this Budget and I add  my  support to the amendments put forward  by  the Opposition.  (Quorum formed) 
The Australian Country Party supports this Immigration (Education) Bill 1973. The Bill provides as an emergency measure supplementary class-room accommodation for migrant children. These class-rooms will be built at both state and independent schools so that adequate special instruction can take place. The reasons why an amendment is needed to the Act, which includes provision for capital expenditure on buildings, has been adequately explained by previous speakers and I have no desire to expand on this issue. But I must point out several urgent issues in relation to migrant education. 
I think it is advisable at this stage to recall that in April 1970 the Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a program of special assistance to schools in areas where there was a lack of knowledge of English among migrant children. This handicap, in fact the total problem of communication, is the greatest factor limiting the integration of migrant children into the total Australian society. This applies particularly to the children of migrant people. If we are to be successful in removing all discriminations - in general or those against, individuals or certain ethnic groups - that unfortunately do still exist in our society, the expansion of education facilities must be the first priority. 
Most migrant children are usually completely exposed to a new environment amongst people who are unaware of these difficulties. They meet alien attitudes and behaviour and of course they meet a language that they can neither speak nor understand. If they can understand it is usually only imperfectly. The migrant child has the compounded problem and stress of having to live between 2 different cultures. Migrant children have first of all to bridge the gap between the beliefs and the duties of their own family and the quite different ways of thinking and behaving in the life they are experiencing in and out of school. If these children reach adolescence experiencing these same stresses, at a time when they are struggling to establish their own identity as persons, the shock of finding themselves unable to communicate even at the simplest level must be a traumatic experience. Naturally they will then become disadvantaged at the most critical stage of their lives. Under these conditions only children with specific language aptitude have any chance of reaching their academic potential. 
The present scheme of special classes which offers special English language classes on a withdrawal basis according to the English language ability of the student is a well planned and systematic attempt to overcome the language barrier by employing specially trained teachers. However, this scheme does have defects. The most serious of these is that by offering the English language teaching through withdrawal from normal classes we are leaving the migrant student about 30 periods only a week in which to absorb through the medium of a language foreign to him instruction for which average Australians working within their own language require at least 40 periods a week. It is little wonder that under these conditions so many migrant children fall by the wayside. Another major defect is the shortage of special teachers and an almost total lack of them in many rural areas. 
In my electorate of Mallee - and I refer particularly to the towns of Robinvale, Swan Hill and Mildura - large numbers of migrant children require this special instruction and they require special class-room accommodation. Some schools in these areas have up to one-third of their total enrolments made up of migrant children or children of migrant families. I realise of course that in many of the underprivileged city areas there is a distinct need for the provision of portable classrooms and extra accommodation. But I do hope that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who is now at the table and who represents a rural electorate with a large percentage of migrants enrolled at the schools in that area, will ensure that some of these classrooms will also be provided in rural areas. Despite these difficulties the development of the migrant children education program has been substantial in the past. The second reading speech points out that the expenditure by the Liberal -Country Party Government increased from $1.8m in 1970-71 to $8.4m for this financial year. The number of special teachers employed has risen from 540 in 1970-71 to 1,500 this year. 
The Minister stated in his second reading speech that up to 60,000 children will be receiving instruction in special classes this year. This is a large number of young people. In order to ensure that they reach a level of understanding of the English language comparable with that of their Australian peers, not only are adequate teachers necessary but also it is essential to provide suitable class accommodation. Of the schools that are able to conduct special migrant classes, too often no appropriate accommodation is available and often these classes, as has been stated by the Minister, have to be conducted in temporary quarters, passageways and other forms of substandard accommodation. The initiatives of the previous Federal Government has resulted in advances in migrant child education by providing the funds for salaries of special teachers; the purchase of capital equipment of the language laboratory type; the provision of suitable teaching and learning materials; and funds to cover the cost of training courses for special teachers. 
This Bill is a simple one but it will be another step forward in improving in particular the facilities for migrant education and will as a result advance the total role of education available in our community. The opportunities for basic education come only once to us all, but to some areas of our community the need for complementing this basic education is urgent. The needs of children from migrant families whether they be Australian-born or not is one such area and the Australian Country Party is pleased to give its support to this Bill. Migrants have come to Australia from many different countries. They have come expecting higher standards of living and higher educational opportunities. Australia has not only the right but also the potential to give to these migrant people the things for which they come here. The first costs in any program are always the cheapest and, in the long run, any funds used to overcome the serious communication problems faced by migrant children will be more than offset by the future advantages to the whole community. I support this Bill. 
MrKEOGH (Bowman) (5.16)- I am pleased to have the opportunity to say a few words in respect of this legislation, the purpose of which is of course to repair or make good yet another piece of Liberal-Country Party inefficiency. For many years, previous governments treated the education of migrant children like so many other aspects of migrant welfare - it was ignored. Generally speaking, once migrants passed through the gates of the migrant hostel and were finally thrown into the community, the Government forgot about them. In fact, it was only in recent years that the previous Government showed any signs of coming to grips with its responsibility for a continuing interest in the lives of migrants and their children. 
For many years, Australia's immigration program was based on an incoherent system of establishing annual targets, some settlers having their full fare paid for them, and others coming here under their own steam and paying their full fare. Generally, the target that was sought was based upon a one per cent addition to the population, the rate of growth from natural means also being assessed at one per cent. That meant that the annual target increase of the Australian population was 2 per cent. This was the target balance that was set by the late 
Arthur Calwell when the immigration scheme was introduced in 1949. The scheme was adequately suited to the early 1950s. However, for almost 20 years the Liberals stuck to this balance, ignoring the fact that gradually over the years the circumstances that originally warranted a target of one per cent had changed drastically and, consequently, in the minds of many economists and others actively concerned with the welfare of migrants and their assimilation into the Australian way of life, the target became economically unjustifiable. 
Another factor which in recent years contributed to the eventual awareness of the previous Government of the need for action in relation to English language training was the increasing numbers of unskilled workers with low levels of education who were arriving from non-English speaking countries. I would like to refer to an article in the 'National Times' of 25 September 1972 which referred to a Ph.D. thesis being prepared by an Australian student, Andrew Jay.  Mr Jay  referred to the problems of Australia's immigration policy and said: 
The trouble with Australia's immigration policy  is that it has never had one. 
The article continued; 
Nowhere has this shown up better than in the recent statement from the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  ' tossing a few random extra dollars to the Good Neighbour Councils here, pumping a little more into child migrant education there, setting up a few infactory language courses for new settlers, and grandly announcing a whole new approach to selection and counselling. 
In theory it all looks fine, and like the curate's egg is good in parts, even if the egg has been rather belatedly laid. In practice the statement is a perfect example of the twin theses which have always underlain Australia's immigration thinking. 
First, that given a few language tools 'they', the imports, would eventually all become like 'us', the hosts, and integrate. 
One of the main factors that certainly has contributed to the problem over the years has been the fact that the responsibility for immigration, rightly, has been that of the national Government. The Australian Government introduced the scheme and accepted full responsibility for it. Admittedly, supplementary schemes have been operated by various States, but the main impact of immigration on the growth pattern of this nation has been rightly the responsibility of, and has been conducted under the authority of, the Australian Government. 
It has been only in recent years that the Commonwealth has shown some interest in assisting in the financing of education. But for many years the responsibility for financing education and providing the resources for the provision of education of a general nature or of a particular nature, such as was required by the non-English speaking migrants, was that of the States and of course, this is where the scheme of things broke down. This fact was recognised by the previous Government in 1971 when it introduced the Migrant Education Act. 
The Bill that is now before the House provides for an emergency grant for the supplementary classrooms that are needed for the accommodation of children in our schools who require this special education. The grant is to be provided to state and independent schools catering for large proportions of migrant children. As the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  said in his second reading speech on this Bill, these classrooms are required at some 420 schools that have been listed by the education authorities. The Minister said: 
At some schools, two or more classrooms would be needed. 
An initial estimate is that 550 classrooms will be required in all. At an estimated average cost of $9,500 for provision, erection and furnishing, an amount of $5.25m would be required over the 2-year period. Two million dollars has been provided in 1973-74 for the .'emergency classroom accommodation program. 
That is the' amount provided for in this amending legislation. Despite the statement by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  . that the success of the scheme introduced 1 by the previous Government had not been referred to by the Minister, I think it is very timely to bring to the attention of honourable members the need for this legislation and to remind them of the facts I mentioned' a few seconds ago, indicating the grave . shortcomings of the previous scheme. These shortcomings of course were forecast by the spokesman for the then Opposition during the debate on the previous legislation - now the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who was then shadow Minister for Immigration - when he proposed just such an amendment during the original debate. Of course, the clear indication that he gave then has been borne out in the years since. 
It was revealed to a large extent by the survey conducted into the needs of child migrants in the schools in the high density migrant areas of Melbourne. The idea that such, class rooms would be provided by this Government was indicated in March this year when that report was tabled by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  He said that part of the discontent among migrant children sprang from the inadequacy of school premises to house the number of special classes that were warranted by the children in attendance. There was no provision under the Child Migrant Education Program for accommodation of classes. The Minister went on to say that the schools surveyed showed that only 29 per cent of the rooms used for migrant English classes were proper class rooms. That meant that the teachers and children were working in sub-standard .accommodation. It was revealed that this accommodation often amounted to staff rooms, cloak rooms, store rooms, offices, sometimes corridors and even sick bays, and in one particular instance a shower room and a laundry. 
Before mentioning tonight an issue that is vital to hundreds of towns throughout Australia, I wish first of all to thank the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  for his immediate attention to my request for Army support in the flood stricken areas of the electorate of Mallee recently. The arrival in Kerang of some 100 Army personnel the morning after I made a plea in this House for support was a great morale booster to the hundreds of volunteers, civil defence organisations and local, shire and State government authorities which had been battling for weeks to contain the worst floods in this district's history. The prompt action of the Minister and his Department was most definitely the turning point in a critical situation and I express the gratitude of all concerned. 
The announcement recently of a survey into some 300 post offices throughout Australia, because of financial difficulties they are presently experiencing has grave implications. The implications, of course, are that the Postmaster-General's Department plans to downgrade or declassify to non-official status many of these offices, leaving reduced facilities and reduced services. This survey is being undertaken in a massive economy drive and most towns with a population of under 1,000 people appear to have been served with notice of this curtailment of service. I know that to a city orientated political party, and to this centralist Government, a town of up to 1,000 people can easily be dismissed as an expendable extremity. It gives a clear indication, I believe, of official thinking. 
The services of the Australian Post Office should be available to all Australian citizens wherever they live. I make a request to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to recognise that every effort should be made in this age when man is bouncing satellite communications around the world to ensure that small but important communities have a continuing right to full post office facilities. Of course there is more at stake in these declassification proposals than simply the level of service available. Naturally in any business, whether it be public or private, economies are of major importance. But I have to be convinced that the minute savings that would be made by post office declassification in many rural centres will have any impact when compared with the unnecessary millions of dollars that are spent and often wasted in central areas of the Public Service. I am also to be convinced that it is at this level that the greatest economic savings can be made in this large government enterprise. 
The Victorian  President  of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union,  Mr Pat  Kirley said that his union would oppose the moves for declassification, and rightly so, but the unions also must be prepared perhaps to relax many of the rules and regulations of employment as they apply to official post offices in small centres. A marginal reduction in employment may he possible in many areas and this must be preferable to the complete removal of employment opportunities and most importantly the reduction in the number of promotion opportunities available to the staff of the Postmaster-General's Department. The Director-General, in a letter to the post offices under survey, has stated that affected staff will be transferred to positions of equal classification. Where are those positions? Any duplication of staffing in any other larger centres surely will only accelerate the movement of those post offices also into the uneconomic area. The Director-General also states that temporary staff will be offered jobs at the non-official offices or attempts will be made to place them somewhere else in the town. 
The level of unemployment is still high and is increasing in many rural communities. This is a vague and doubtful proposal. I have 7 post offices in my electorate under survey for declassification. They are Woomelang, Beulah, 
Rainbow, Quambatook, Pyramid HAI, Jeparit and Nyah West. These post offices between them employ 50 people. Many of them are local people and many are career employees. Generally the post office can be regarded as a valuable aid to decentralisation. Many young people who would have been unable to find employment elsewhere have entered a valuable career offering opportunities of promotion. This fact cannot be under-rated in these days when governments are spending millions of dollars in an effort to curb metropolitan expansion and pollution. It is absurdity in the extreme that these areas offering anti-polluted living should be threatened with reduced services and become a target for official smallmindedness. The unions, too, in consultation would be in the best position to suggest ways of improving the business of the post office, such as it. the money order area, and other charges could be reduced to encourage business. Business has been falling off in recent years no doubt largely due to high charges and the fact that a severe rural crisis has curtailed spending in all fields. I am sure that the Post Office has felt the effects of this as well. 
The Postmaster-General has let reason prevail in relation to the issue of newspaper postal charges and categorisation. I ask him now to consider very closely the adverse effects of any declassification program before taking action that will se : back the development of this country. In particular I emphasise to him that in many areas the householder delivery service is extremely important. I ask him whether he can give some definite guidelines on which post offices are likely to be changed in status. It is interesting to recall the positive approach of a developing Australia of past years when our post offices were established in most rural townships. Our leaders had faith in the future and we must encourage the same faith today. A post office in a township of 800 or so people - 'that is a relative large community - employs between 5 and 10 people. Their wages help the economic life of these communities and of course provide tax revenue for the Government. I have no doubt that in the final analysis a large profit to the total community is the ultimate result. 
As the Postmaster-General is aware, I have already made representations to him following a large protest meeting at Quambatook some weeks ago. I expressed then the concern of the subscribers of that town at the possible declassification of their post office. Rural people are naturally and understandably concerned at this Government's attitude to the country areas. In the past 9 months country people's rights have been quickly cut away and many are saying that this is just another step in the campaign. They regard this plan to investigate Post Office costs as another nail in the coffin of country centres. I ask the Postmaster-General not to regard these surveys findings only on an economic basis. There is much more at stake than just a physical closure of a building. The life of whole communities is being jeopardised and this life-style cannot be calculated by economic findings or by any Treasurer's balance sheet. As  Mr Kirley  of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union said: 'It doesn't matter how small a community is, it has a right to full Post Office facilities.' I believe it is ridiculous in an age when all countries are expanding their communication facilities that the Australian Post Office should decide to curtail ours. 
This Bill preempts a major change in the administration of education and, as such, the establishment of the Australian Schools Commission to determine the needs of students in both government and non-government schols, at both primary and secondary levels, is therefore an important piece of legislation. Tremendous advances have been made in the provision of educational facilities throughout Australia by all State and Federal governments in recent years. Whilst there are many areas of agreement and disagreement with the recommendations of the report handed down by the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission, it is imperative that an impartial commission be set up to advise any government on the best means of meeting our future educational needs. The Bill deals specifically with the setting up of that Commission. I must support the amendments proposed by the Opposition which aim to protect the future freedom of choice of parents and students and to ensure that our education system continues with as great a degree of diversity, with a wide base, and taking in every area of this nation's requirements. 
The Bill, as it is, will centralise our education system. It will take away from the States much of their constitutional powers and, more importantly, the innovations that a variety of school authorities adds to our system. The amendments that the Opposition proposes, and which we hope the Government will agree to, are to ensure that the membership of this Australian Schools Commission will include people and educational groups who should appropriately be represented on this panel. I appreciate the fact that it is necessary for the Minister to have considerable discretion in regard to the makeup of the Commission but we are concerned that this Bill, in its present form, will give to all these educational groups neither the opportunity nor the responsibility of guiding educational commitments. 
Previous speakers in this debate have adequately explained the Opposition's amendments to the particular clause dealing with this matter. I wish to deal in greater detail with other aspects of the Bill. Clause 13, for instance, sets out the function of the Commission, which is to advise the Minister on establishing acceptable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff - in broad, the facilities at government or non-government primary and secondary schools. Facilities are important and I would be the first to admit that grave deficiencies exist in many areas of our system. The Karmel Committee report is a document which is exceedingly valuable and interesting. It has become the basis, no doubt, for future discussion, decision and action. It is a lengthy document but, even so, in many areas it is vague and makes but few comments on many vital aspects of our education system. 
There are groups of children in our community who have been seriously disadvantaged by a system that unfortunately, in the past, due to the demands and the clamour for education, has been catering mainly for the majority. I cannot, however, accept the emotion or the drama of the honourable member for Casey in speaking about our disadvantaged children. Whilst I believe his concern is genuine I assure him that he is not the only one in the Parliament with a desire to help these children. But it is this very type of contribution that damages Government and public endeavours. The amendments to be moved by the Opposition do not, as he suggests, limit the functions of the Commission. They do, in fact, greatly broaden its content and, consequently, its function and, I hope, its results. By these amendments we do not detract from the increases in Federal Government expenditure. I applaud those increases. I applaud also the enthusiasm of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and his endeavours towards the responsibility of his ministry but I fail to see how he can accept all the provisions of this Bill and how he can give in to the pressures within his own Party in a way that gives neither assurance nor initiative to many schools other than government schools - perhaps not even to some of these. 
The future security of many schools and parents results from the introduction of the principle of less aid or none, if the system of independent schools proceeds to use more resources per pupil, or if the standard for aid is the resource usage in the average government school. Such a principle as this will not encourage the participation of parents in schools, which is so nobly spoken of in the Minister's second reading speech. It will discourage the vital involvement of pupils and parents and, slowly but surely, will force all our governments into greater financial commitments and responsibility producing a straitjacketing of ideas and a lack of diversity and initiative. 
I believe it is essential that all viable educational groups within our community have a place on this Commission. The Opposition is not attempting, as has been suggested, to remove the discretion of the Minister. We are only ensuring full participation and representation. My entry into this debate is purely to express my desire that the future funding of our educational system will not be hamstrung by the disadvantages of centralised bureaucracy. I, and the Opposition, wish to see the Commission established so that it will provide for present and future citizens and will give not only diverse opportunity and equality of opportunity but also will be an instrument of permanent action with the support of the entire Australian electorate. 
The Karmel Committee report is an historic document but it has caused considerable uncertainty and ferment. It is valuable as a basis for considered judgments. It is, however, vital that there should be less centralisation of control over the operations of schools. The people running the schools, with the parents and even the senior students, should be given greater responsibility for effecting their own decisions. The standard of schooling a child receives should depend neither on what his parents can or will pay nor whether he attends a government or an independent school. Every child must have the right to be prepared for full participation in society, both for his own and for society's benefit. This, of course, means special assistance for slow learners, handicapped children, Aboriginal children and, of course, children of migrant parents. We must have facilities but let us concern ourselves too with the provision of teachers for these children. Remedial teachers are in short supply and there is almost a complete absence of these teachers in rural areas. 
Whilst recognising the importance of priorities as they have been established in the past, it is now imperative that this serious problem, in this important area of education, be given special attention. I accept the fact that the Federal Government has a vital role in education. I believe, as does the Minister, that the formation of the Schools Commission will commence a new era in education. But I am also of the opinion that the amendments to be moved by the Opposition will give to this Act greater diversity and provide for greater participation and will, as a result, promote the real objectives of schools. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting for the dinner adjournment I was pointing out why 1 was supporting the foreshadowed amendments which are to be moved by the Opposition. Firstly, the amendments would avoid centralism of control resulting in an unimaginative system. Secondly, the amendment could allow greater participation on the Schools Commission so that it is representative of the total community. I also mentioned that there appeared to be an over emphasis on education facilities expressed in the Karmel Committee report. While I admit that these are important they must play in present day education a secondary part to curriculum structures and the provision of qualified teachers particularly for disadvantaged students. 
I agree with my colleague, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who rightly pointed out that we must not wittingly develop a system that forces many young people into higher academic education when their skills and inclination may be more adaptable to a technical form of instruction. I believe our aim must be in providing individual children with the experience of being a member of a diverse group of people, while still acquiring basic skills and knowledge. The freedom of choice of individuals and students is a basic right in our democratic society, as is the basic right of all children to equal opportunity and equality of education. The amendments proposed by the Opposition to the Schools Commission Bill give it flexibility, greater participation in and to the composition of the Commission's expertise. For those reasons I support the amendments and I hope that the Government will see its way clear to accept some of them. Debate interrupted. 
I hope that the few remarks I will make tonight will return to this House some of the sanity which was evident earlier today. I wish to refer to the limitations of the maximum subsidies payable under the Aged Persons Homes Act for the provision of aged persons accommodation. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has acknowledged my representations to him on this matter and has pointed out that a report from his Department on the current maximum subsidy limits has been referred to the Social Welfare Commission for consideration. I raise this issue again because of the urgent action that I feel is necessary if the provision of essential accommodation is to continue. I am referring particularly to the present prepared and proposed plans. 
In my electorate of Mallee 2 organisations, the Kerang and District Hospital and the Deacon Court Management of Mildura, have reached a stalemate in their plans because it is impossible for local contributions to meet the amount of finance necessary to complete their home units, due to increases in building costs. 
The honourable member for Murray says that many other homes are in a similar position. That is quite right. At the present time the monthly inflation rate is at least one per cent. Labour and materials have become not only difficult to obtain but also nigh on impossible to find. With the existing escalation of costs, building contractors are not prepared to sign fixed contracts but are insisting on a 'rise in cost' clause being written into contracts. Those organisations which have drawn up plans and called tenders now find that, instead of having to contribute only onethird of the total cost which was possible recently, the contribution that is necessary now is almost one-half of the total cost of establishing nursing homes. This is an intolerable and impossible position. How can a community of some 4,000 people, as is the case in Kerang, meet half the cost of a 16-bed nursing home costing $186,000? This means that a local contribution of some $90,000 is necessary. That amount is quite beyond the capacity of any small community to meet. 
In an attempt to proceed with plans to accommodate aged people, the committees responsible for these homes have resubmitted their plans to the Hospitals and Charities Commission for modification. Plans are being revised in an attempt to reduce the cost of the buildings to within the limits of the cost structure as set down by the Commonwealth Government. However, so drastically do the new plans differ from the originals that the boards of management feel that the service that would be available in such a building would be inadequate to meet the requirements of the elderly citizens. The alterations that have been made have removed from the proposed buildings all the essential and most necessary conveniences for comfortable living - something which some of our elderly citizens have not always enjoyed. How can life be comfortable without the essential item of an air conditioner in an inland climate which has cold winters and hot summers? No other people are expected to live without essential comforts, but it is so much more important that our aged people should not be required to do so. 
I feel that it should be pointed out that despite the alterations to these plans and despite the trimming of costs, the cost of these projects will still be outside the allowable ceiling. I did ask the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to be in the House this evening but he apologised and said that he was unable to be here. I raise this matter not for political reasons but because the situation in relation to the provision of aged people's homes is now static. It is fruitless to proceed in present circumstances. The previous Liberal-Country Party Government set the present ceiling, but we are all well aware of the shortages of labour, building materials and so on which, combined with the national inflation rate which is in excess of 13 per cent, are now making the ceiling completely unrealistic. It must be raised immediately. I ask the Minister to impress upon the committee of inquiry into aged persons housing which has been formed within his Department to move immediately in order to make a decision urgently. I suggest that an increase of at least 25 per cent in the Government's contribution is required urgently if progress in the housing of our aged people is to continue and not be stifled. Some limits are necessary on the amount of funds made available to ensure that the appropriate number of aged people are accommodated. But in the light of current conditions, such as land prices and building costs, continual review of this is necessary. 
In the few moments left to me I would like to mention that the Department of Social Security has become our largest Government department in terms of Budget expenditure. Almost one-fifth of our Budget outlay is administered by this vital Department, and I think the sum involved is somewhere in the vicinity of S2,000m. The success of this Government service depends ultimately on its availability to the people. There are many areas in Australia where I feel that the setting up of an office of the Department of Social Security is necessary. This situation has eventuated as a result of the increases in population and also because of the broadening of the services available and supplied by this Department. The city and shire of Swan Hill, together with its surrounding shires, comprises one region which has inadequate access to social security services. The nearest offices are at Mildura, which is 140 miles away, and at Bendigo, which is 100 miles away. The decentralisation of the Social Security Department would contribute to the needs of this large region. I have asked the Minister to give me an assurance, if he can, as to the possibility of this progressive, expanding region of Victoria centring on the city of Swan Hill being granted a branch of the Social Security Department. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister share the view expressed recently by the Premier of South Australia that the Labor Government is treating the wine industry, adversely? Does he agree with  Mr Dunstan  that many Australian wineries will go broke unless the Federal Government lifts its Budget tax imposts on the industry? Will the Minister tell us what the present Government is going to do to meet the very serious situation to which  Mr Dunstan  has drawn attention? Could the Minister also advise the House what decision has been made about the problem which the Government has thrust on the fruit canneries by its action in raising rural credit interest rates to record levels? 
This Bill, I believe, is an unbelievable attack upon private enterprise. The many specific proposals in it, which are the result of Budget measures brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in August, will have detrimental and far reaching effects upon all sections of this nation. I believe that this Bill clearly emphasises the socialist philosophy of the Labor Government. It emphasises the Government's clear intention to transfer resources from the private sector into the public sector of the economy. I feel that it displays an ignorance of the important role that the private business sector has played in the community and must continue to play in the economic structure of this country. The measures proposed in this taxation legislation will raise approximately $360m. Pensioners will be taxed for the first time and it is clear that a large number of pensioners still under means test requirements will receive less income than they did before the latest pension increase. This legislation is also a severe blow to the small family and private company businesses as they have always been restricted because of a lack of availability of finance for expansion and development. Unlike the public company, which has ready access to the stock market, private business has been almost entirely dependent upon the accumulation of profits - a slow and often unreliable source - or the need to borrow from conventional finance sources such as banks or insurance companies. This type of borrowing has imposed huge limitations, particularly as capital repayments and interest costs have restricted working capital. At a time when productivity and increased supply is urgently needed in this country this clause of this taxation Bill will sap confidence and initiative and place the private company at a distinct disadvantage compared with the large Australian public company. 
Many of my colleagues on this side of the chamber have spoken about the changes that are to be made in sections 75 and 76 of this Act - those sections which in the past have allowed primary producers to deduct in full expenditure incurred as capital expenditure and which have allowed primary producers and manufacturing industries to claim, in addition to depreciation, 20 per cent of the cost of new plant as a deduction, which is known as the investment allowance. These sections, which were introduced by the previous Government, have done much to encourage the establishment and updating of our primary and secondary industries. I believe that they have been largely responsible for the outstanding efficiency and productivity of our primary producers who, operating in a high cost economy, have been able to compete on favourable terms with exports to under developed low cost economy nations. 
For the remainder of my. time this afternoon I wish to concentrate on clause 8 of the Bill which deals specifically with section 31a of the principal Act which relates to the trading stock of winemakers. Not only do the previous clauses which I have mentioned have a direct bearing upon the productivity and efficiency of wine producers and grape growers, but this Budget has dealt an extremely heavy blow to the Australian wine and brandy industry by phasing out section 31a. Section 31a has provided for the wine industry a consistent minimum basis of valuation, and it must be emphasised that this measure has acted only as a deferral of tax and not as a tax reduction. The deferral of tax liability on stocks is essential in an industry where producers' profits cannot actually be determined until wine is sold. Now, however, these stocks are to be brought up to the value of cost, replacement or market value in progressive stages over the next 5 years. Tax will then be levied on revaluation of stock and is in no way related to sales. In other words, tax will be levied even if wine is not sold. 
I believe that the Government should immediately defer this proposal so that the total effects of this measure can become known through an inquiry. The reasons why this action should be taken can be seen by pointing out the unique features of this industry. The industry has a long working capital cycle as funds are committed in maturing stock. Stock turnover is lower than in most other industries. The average turnover in 1972-73 in the wine industry was 33 months. This time lapse is, of course, from the receipts of the grapes until the sale of the finished product. Section 31a has aided and abetted the wine industry and it is by the previous Government's policy on the brandy excise differential and the stock valuation provisions that incentives have been given to the industry. I am worried now that the wine industry will not be able to take all the grapes as and when offered. I am worried that the industry will not be able to absorb large tonnage fluctuations from vintage to vintage. I believe that section 31a has made a valuable contribution to the stability and prosperity of the grape growing industry. 
These 3 factors have tended to keep stock levels higher than would have been the case in normal manufacturing industry and stocks of wine at wineries therefore have not been related only to sales forecasts. In other industries raw material often is readily available and can be easily stored. In the case of alcoholic beverages made from other than grapes raw materials can be obtained throughout the year on an immediate delivery basis. But wine growers have no alternative outlets and look to the wine industry only for the disposal of their raw materials over a very limited life of some 8 to 10 weeks. The major effect to the industry of repealing section 31a will be the dispossession of owners of private and family companies. There are approximately 180 such companies within the industry, which today has become one of Australia's very important industries. The wine growing industry is scattered throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Therefore this is by no means a parochial matter. Previous government policy has been to encourage capital investment by the industry. As a result the industry has kept abreast of the best international wine and brandy making techniques and has continued to upgrade its equipment. The industry has invested in a large amount of expensive equipment which is used only for the vintage for a small part of the year. 
The effect of this measure will result in an unwillingness to accept all grapes offered. There will be a general lowering of wine stock levels which will flow through to grape growers and the co-operatives. Professor Grant in his report on the Australian wine industry says that the wine industry is unusual in that the burden on surpluses is passed back to the residual suppliers who are defined as the growers who supply proprietary companies and co-operatives with grapes and some small wine makers who supply them with bulk wine. Cooperative sales to other proprietary companies would be considerably reduced and consequently their intake of grapes also will be affected. It is important to recognise that grape growing and the wine industry are interdependent. I have mentioned that the industry must undoubtedly restrict grape intakes and reduce stocks both to conserve cash and to reduce stock holdings on which it will be taxed. Even if one assumes that total wine demand remains constant, this will result in some diversion of grapes to large organisations with the resources to finance such stocks. Similarly, stocks of immature wine could be directed to the financially strongest organisations at less than economic prices. 
This taxation measure, like most others in this Bill, points out, I believe, the ignorance and complete lack of understanding by the Government of this major industry. It is vital to the future of Australian wine producers and the producers of grapes that the repeal of section 31a be deferred. The Labor Government would not be denied taxation for some months and it would give it time to inquire into the disastrous repercussions that this measure will have on the industry. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The House is having a cognate debate on 5 Bills dealing with education but I wish to concentrate my remarks on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3), which will extend the provision of financial assistance for all State teachers' colleges and the pre-school teachers' colleges as from 1 July 1973. The Australian Country Party, as part of the Opposition, fully supports this Bill. Over past months various education Bills have been passed by the Parliament which have rightly placed considerable emphasis on expenditure to improve the amenities and the facilities of our education system. But more important to the future success of education programs will be the effectiveness and capability of our teaching profession. This Bill will assist just that. By integrating teachers' colleges completely within the framework of advanced education we will have a situation where the same financing arrangements will apply to teachers' colleges as to our universities and colleges of advanced education. Teachers' colleges now will be fully within the structure of tertiary institutions. 
Pre-school education is recognised now as a most necessary start to the education of our children. Work done by teachers at this level is important to the future success at higher levels of schools, and greater support is necessary not only from the Federal Government but from State governments which also must recognise the rights of our young children to pre-school training. It is of particular advantage in under-privileged areas. In many inner city suburbs where there are large families, where often 2 parents are working or where large concentrations of migrants are living, it is essential to provide satisfactory pre-school centres staffed by adequately trained teachers who can apply themselves to problems which face these young people. Our teachers need training but they also need adequate working and living conditions so that they do not just become commuters to the schools and their pupils but can live and work within these communities. We have to encourage our teachers to raise the performance of themselves and their students. There is no doubt that the environment and the relationship between the teacher and the child will have a much greater influence on educattion than the surrounding facilities which, as I mentioned, are being given great attention. 
There is an ever stronger argument for increased pre-school activity for our Aboriginal people and children in rural Australia who do not always have the advantage of constant communication and association with other children in some form of tuition before primary school. The teaching profession is the major link between parents and our society in our education process. It is, I believe, the most important link. I am firmly of the opinion that to date too much finance has gone into the top academic roles and it is for this reason that I am pleased to give my support to any legislation aimed at diverting funds into teacher training. Teachers must be encouraged to develop standards in their profession and to accept responsibility for the measurement and appraisal of those standards. This is not easy and it will not be an easy task, since each child is an individual and responds to different circumstances, techniques and personalities. 
We must expand the. facilities for in-service training for teachers. We need special course arrangements and for teachers to participate in post-graduate courses. Changing patterns in education must apply to a rapidly changing society and it is vital for the teaching profession to participate with in-service training in order to give teachers a more fulfilling and productive role. The Australian Country Party is aware of the ferment and uncertainty surrounding education and of the need to adopt the organisation, control, methods and objectives of education to the requirements of the people in this changing world. We see the likelihood of far reaching changes in education and teaching methods as part of this rapidly changing environment in which national policies must be continually determined and revised. 
There must be greater recognition of the fact that the structure of the family in society is not only changing but is under challenge. Demands and new approaches are being applied to the places occupied by each person in the family and society, and to the means by which each person is to be enabled and equipped to play his or her role. I mention these changes and these challenges because it is to the teachers, to responsible professionally trained young men and women, that the future course of the lives of our young children will be moulded. 
It is not my intention to canvass or challenge the source of the funds made available in these 5 Bills except to say that with the spiralling inflation rate causing high rises in building and wage costs of at least 20 per cent anually a 20 per cent rise would be required to maintain the status quo given present conditions. The only question I raise in relation to the funding of education is that the source of finance should not be used as a means of control. Diversity and freedom of choice will be the criteria of an effective educational system and if there are any tendencies they should be towards regionalisation of administration, control and policy making. 
Since I entered this Parliament I have always stressed the need for governments to meet the deficiencies in library facilities and conditions at our primary and secondary schools quickly. Libraries today are an integral part of education and it is pleasing to see libraries receiving special grants in respect of the acquisition of library material and the employment of library staff as these things apply to teacher training colleges. The Country Party applauds the provision of $9. 17m by the Government to meet the cost of pre-school colleges and its decision to meet its share of these grants even though these institutions will not become selfgoverning under the general supervision of the appropriate bodies in the States. We support these Bills in total, recognising the right of every member of society to avail himself or herself of a period of education at public expense, an education that will be appropriate and useful to his or her needs. 
Together with my colleague, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  I am in general agreement with the objectives of this Bill. However, I think that the development of some of the remarks made in this debate already is worthwhile. For a country such as Australia industrial research and development are of vital importance despite the fact that Australia, in common with many other medium sized industrial countries, can in general import by adaptation many of the results of research and development elsewhere. However, Australian conditions, it should be emphasised, dictate the need for an original approach and an original resolution of research and development programs. 
To illustrate my argument, I take the POBtion of rural research. In rural industry many of the advances of the past quarter of a century have occurred because of the successful application of scientific principles and practices to farming. These principles and practices have been successful because they have been developed for Australian conditions. As a result, they have taken account of the limiting factors, such as environmental conditions, facing Australian farmers. When one takes an introspective look at research and development in Australia with relation to legislative policy one is disturbed by 2 characteristics. Firstly, there is a very small amount of money spent on research in Australia. 
Secondly, what money is spent often fails to take into account the socio-economic aspects of the implementation of the findings of research and the lack of integration of our research and development efforts. Before continuing, I quote from a paper by  Mr E.  J. Prince, published in August, on the role of the legislature in science policy.  Mr Prince,  last year's Commonwealth Parliamentary Fellow, made the following point: 
As conventional wisdoms lose currency, so often do they appear simplistic and elementary at a later date. Among the conventional wisdoms of the sixties was one that assumed a close and direct relationship between the absolute level of resources invested by a nation in research and development and the rate of economic growth. 
Continuing,  Mr Prince  said: 
The weight of evidence points to the conclusion that the relationship between research and development and economic growth is far more complex than that originally postulated. 
Unfortunately, although wisdoms change, it becomes evident that it is more difficult to change the trust of legislation with regard to science unless there is a recognition on the legislature's part that science itself in a fastchanging world needs either flexible legislation or legislation under constant review by legislators in an attempt to keep abreast of research and development advances. Earlier, I said that I agreed with the general objectives of the Bill. However, I believe that there is a need for the Government to take stronger steps towards integrating its research efforts. 
I am not calling for over-centralisation of research effort but for greater integration, so that the possibility of greater effectiveness and efficiency can flow out of research efforts. I believe there is a need to have a continuing overall review of research today, undertaken in full or in part with public funds, whether it be by this Government or its agencies, the State governments or their agencies, and industry, wherever practicable, to ensure that the research under way or planned is needed and that the results of the research meet the socioeconomic aspects of the people. 
If I may develop my last point further, it is ridiculous to use research funds to develop a new container for, say, a generally used commodity, if consideration is not given to the cost of the container to the consumer, the real need of the consumer for a new container, and the ease with which a consumer could dispose of the container without causing an excessive litter problem. In any move towards an overall continuing review of the national research effort, I see a strong necessity for a critical analysis of the national priorities for research, as well as a national information data bank among researchers. However, this must not impinge on the original discovery rights of researchers and must respect their desire, if expressed, for confidentiality. Perhaps the Ministry for Science is the appropriate body for this co-ordination. 
Such a strengthened role for the Department of Science would stimulate research in Australia and lead, I suggest, to economies in research operations, which could successfully be employed in any urgent research project. It is not insignificant to me that this Bill, which serves as the major bridge between the Government and industry with regard to industrial research, is administered by the Department of Secondary Industry, which I doubt is overburdened with research-oriented personnel. This is not a reflection on the Department, because the same argument holds for researchfunding activities exercised by other departments. The Department of Science, which is the Department one would logically expect to be intimately involved in science research and development, is hardly considered in the allocation of research funds. The Department is not even a net of review between the tennis, players of all research-funding departments and the researchers. 
Appreciating that the Bill is only an interim measure, I urge the Government to ponder the rationale for a greater measure of integration in our research efforts. I ask the Government to consider also that there is a greater need for the legislature to have better communication between the multiple-funding sources for research and the researchers themselves, whether they be social scientists, physicists, applied scientists, chemists or management scientists, so that we can in the future legislate for the science needs of the nation, bearing in mind the total aspirations of the community. Such a step could be taken by this House in considering the appointment of a House committee on science or, alternatively, the House setting up an office such as the United States Office of Technological Assessment that could examine development in science, whether science is being restricted by legislative strictures, and whether the research results being achieved are what was envisaged when the projects were being financed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the serious damage by rust to wheat crops, particularly in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. This fungus disease has not only cut yields but also has severely reduced grain quality. In fact, losses to the industry have been conservatively estimated at $ 1,000m. In answer to a question in the other place last week, the Minister for Primary Industry said that there was a considerable incidence of the disease but that, because of prompt action, losses would not be so bad as expected. My question is: In view of the fact that wheat farmers know of no control measures against such a disease, what was the prompt action taken? 
The Minister for Health will be aware that the outbreak of encephalitis throughout large areas of Victoria and southern New South Wales has now claimed the lives of 5 people and has left a large number of people critically impaired, as well as resulting in huge losses in tourist returns. Many people have been disturbed by reports which suggest that health authorities were warned of the likelihood of this outbreak 2 months before the first cases were reported. I ask: Is it a fact that a warning was given? If so, to whom and when was it given? Why was the warning not made public, and what department or persons were responsible for this decision being made? Finally, what research is going on into this disease, and is a sufficiently large sum of money being made available? 
This Bill, which seeks to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972- 73, is a most important and significant piece of legislation. It is important firstly because its provides for the projected cost of wool research and promotion as well as the cost of financing the marketing and administrative expenses of the Australian Wool Corporation. The significance of this Bill is that the basis of the Government to grower contributions has been changed. In the past the producers have made contributions on a dollar for dollar basis. This legislation seeks to change that basis. As a result of its implementation the contributions will be closer to $3 from the industry and $2 from the Government. While on this point I would like to quote from the speech that was made a fortnight ago on this Bill by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  The honourable member complained that members on this side of the House were grizzling. He said that they were splitting straws over a difference of $400,000 between what the industry will contribute and what the Government will contribute. This is not the fact at all. The amount is not $400,000 but $23. 6m. To emphasise the point, may I place on record in Hansard what is contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The Minister stated that in the first year of the program the industry contributes $22.9m. The Government's contribution will be $21. 3m. The difference is $1.6m. In the second year of the program, the industry contribution will be $29.9m. The Government will contribute $19.2m. The difference is $10.7m. In the third year of the program the industry will contribute $32.2m. The Government will contribute $20.9m. The difference is $ 11.3m. As I said earlier, the total difference is $23.6m. I do believe that the credibility of the honourable member for Wilmot on this matter has to be doubted. We are not grizzling about $400,000. The amount involved is $23.6m. 
Research and promotion within any industry, manufacturing or primary, is essential if modern techniques of production, of handling or of marketing are to be developed. At this stage, I must emphasise the appreciation of all Australian wool producers of the valuable and dedicated research carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The gains that have been made at the producer level in techniques to increase wool productivity and quality over recent years by this efficient research organisation are incalculable. The research and techniques developed by CSIRO have not only meant large increases in wool production per acre but also the technological advances made in the manufacture and use of woollen products have enhanced wool's place as the world's number one fibre. This is a fact that I do believe the general population is now recognising. 
The Australian Country Party supports this Bill. But I wish briefly to canvass 2 points that I regard as vital in any program of Government involvement in co-operation with an industry, whether primary or secondary. In this Bill, as I have suggested, the support given by the Government to the next 3-year program will decrease. On the basis of a $ 1,000m wool clip, the new levy of 2.75 per cent will bring an excess of funds which will correctly be carried forward for expenditure in future years by means of a trust account. The desirability of this action, I might point out, was stressed by my Party in the course of the debate on the Bill to give effect to meat industry levy charges. It is pleasing to see that the Government has recognised the necessity for a trust account to carry forward officially this increase in expenditure. 
The rate of levy struck in this instance is geared to a total clip of $850m. The returns for wool during 1973 were at record levels. But, since October, as the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has pointed out, wool prices have dropped by 70c a kilo. This gives rise to my first query of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is at the table. Will the Government give an undertaking that, if wool receipts drop beyond the extent of the levy, the Government's contribution will rise automatically? Wool promotion and research 

<graphic href="088131197404025_49_3.jpg"></graphic>

have been financed from money provided by the Australian Government and by levy on the gross value of all wool shorn and sold whether at auction or otherwise. Contributions from the Federal Government approximately doubled between 1969-70 and 1970-71. As from 1 August 1970 grower contributions to promotion and research were reduced from 2 per cent to one per cent of the value of wool sold. The Wool Industry Act 1973, introduced by this Labor Government, increased this tax to 2.4 per cent, effective from 1 July 1973. Now, the Wool Industry Bill 1974, again introduced by this Labor Government, proposes to increase the tax on growers to 2.75 per cent of the value of shorn wool from 1 July 1974 for the following 3 years. At this stage, I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the amount of industry and Government contribution to wool research and promotion from 1968-69 to 1976-77. 
The Australian Country Party welcomes and supports this proposal to establish a committee of inquiry with a view to developing an Australian institute to co-ordinate and to foster collections of national significance. Governments and man in modern societies must continue to search for ways to integrate the arts into society and to involve the public closely with the cultural life of our communities. There has been a separation of the arts from the public. The paradox is that it has occurred at a time of rapid world urbanisation, technological change and automation, when the machine is changing human patterns of work and play. It has, on the other hand, created more leisure time and, I hope, more energy. Greater emphasis will have to be placed by administrative bodies on more support to smaller, even perhaps experimental organisations, together with our creative individuals. Many smaller operating professional groups are working energetically for the arts in our community. They will feel more confident in the long term if such a coordinating body as is proposed can assist them not only financially but also by aiding them in establishing contact with sister galleries and allied institutions. In my electorate the dedicated work of small groups must be given the greatest praise not only for bringing art to our region but also for promoting local participation and an application of the arts in the community. For this reason the Australian Country Party supports the conception of an Australian Institute and the contents of this statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
 I wish to raise an issue which is vital to the future of many of my constituents. I believe that it also is a problem that is common to most of Australia's rural areas. This is the rapid deterioration of postal services and the huge costs that will have to be met by rural subscribers if they wish to retain the use of their telephones. The Government has been able to avoid responsibility for its obvious inability to reconcile postal unions and their disputes by continued reference to the now concluded royal commission into the Post Office. The report of that royal commission is soon to be tabled. I hope that, following that tabling, immediate action will be taken by the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  to restore to the Australian public the real value of service from our largest Public Service department. 
One hundred years ago mail was delivered throughout my electorate by horse, Cobb and Co., foot and tremendous dedication. The delivery of mail from a metropolitan area to any of the major towns in my electorate and to many smaller towns never took more than 2 days. But today, with all the advantages of modern transport, including air and rail services, it now takes from 5 days to 7 days for mail deliveries to be made to our major towns. The average time for postal deliveries to be made between 2 towns which are some 224 kilometres apart is 6 days, while people in towns separated by a distance of only 30 kilometres often find that a period of up to a week is required for receipt of posted articles. Even our dedicated non-official postmasters are being frustrated in their attempts to provide a satisfactory service as they are unable to open mail bags on a Saturday even though, in many cases, the mail bags concerned are actually in the post office or perhaps are at the local railway station. Union regulations which restrict the sorting and delivering of mail on a Saturday morning are the cause of this situation. What a condemnation it is of a modern government that essential services are being curtailed and cut back in so many areas. The comparison between what is happening now and the initiative of earlier governments which established adequate postal services to all areas of Australia, remote or otherwise, despite enormous difficulties is a dismal one. 
This week, I have received letters from 2 constituents,  Mr Doug  Richardson and  Mr Frank  Hynam. The story of the experiences of these 2 gentlemen appeared in last Tuesday's 'Sun'. These gentlemen must each pay 81,280 if they wish their homes to be connected to the automatic exchange at Patchewollock. 
It certainly is shocking, as the honourable member for Wimmera says. It is shocking that, in modern times, people can be placed at such a disadvantage that they may lose this means of communication if they do not pay $1,280. 
The amount is $1,280. They must pay this amount despite the fact that they have built and maintained private lines to that exchange for up to 50 years. These extra charges for a public utility are a direct result of the policy of the Labor Government. The reduction of the free maintenance and construction provision from 15 miles, which was the policy of the former Liberal-Country Party Government, to 8 kilometres or 5 miles and a charge of $160 per half kilometre means that many people now cannot afford to retain an essential service that has been available to them for many years. The anomalies and injustices are more apparent to new applicants when neighbours and subscribers on the same exchange, who were fortunate to have signed applications before the new policy was introduced, are connected free of cost. 
It is discrimination, as the honourable member for Wimmera says. These 2 cases are only a sample of similar situations that exist. Many subscribers to a proposed automatic exchange at Roseberry will also be advised this week that charges of 82,400 - in the case of 2 subscribers- $1,920, 51,620 and $1,280 are to be imposed on them for the conversion of their lines. The former LiberalCountry Party Government introduced the 15-mile free scheme to avert the substantial capital costs to individual rural subscribers from the Post Office's investment program of conversion to automatic exchanges. This scheme applied not only to conversions but also to new subscribers. 
The Coombs Report - the Labor Government's manual for the economic destruction of country people - recommended that this program could not now be justified when 93 per cent of telephone services are automatic. The stark reality of this statement is that the remaining 7 per cent of telephone services are in country regions of Australia where communication costs are high but where these services are imperative just to conduct normal life in the home and in business ventures. Public amenities and services are the basic right of every citizen irrespective of whether those citizens live in urban or rural areas. The resources of this nation whether human or material do not all originate in the city. Country people make an enormous contribution to our economic wealth, a wealth that is being used to advance all Australians. 
The Australian Post Office is in a state of disruption and deterioration. The Post Office is not performing the functions of its charter. But whatever decisions are made in relation to its structure following the Vernon report, one aspect is quite clear. This is that its services must be improved to meet the needs of a modern community and its charges should be levied on a basis of equality. I ask the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who represents the Postmaster-General in this chamber - the Minister is not present in the chamber now - as I have asked the PostmasterGeneral in representations that I have made to him to rethink this Government policy on telephone extensions and connections. If this is not done, the Minister may well find that the Government will need to provide our essential community services free in an endeavour to encourage people to remain in country areas. People whose net incomes have not reached $2,000 per annum in past years cannot pay from $1,000 to $2,500 for a telephone. Surely,  Mr Speaker,  1974, when technological developments are outstripping" our ability to harness them, is not the year to see the removal of basic communication services that people need. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. What steps has the Government taken to rectify the industrial strife and bans on shipping, particularly Greek shipping, that have led to the delay of wheat shipments, resulting in a deferment of a substantial payment to wheat growers? These stoppages have already cost growers $500,000 in extra demurrage charges and will create chaos for producers whose budgetary and financial commitments have been based on the previously announced payments of 20c a bushel for the 1973-74 crop. 
This discussion that the Opposition has introduced deplores the repudiation by the Labor Government of its public undertaking to commence a full scale pre-school and child care program. We do not criticise the principles of that program but we do deplore the action of a government which, for political expediency, was prepared irresponsibly to use this issue as an election gimmick. It was a gimmick that undoubtedly had a strong appeal and influence on the result of the past 2 elections, despite the fact that it is now obvious that no coherent or workable policy had been developed that would allow for a successful commencement of this program and which not only recognised the needs of the children but could also operate within the bounds of our economy. We have had the Fry report, the Social Welfare Commission report and now, of course, the Priorities Review Staff has recommended that the commencement of the program be postponed so that the Government and the community would have time to prepare for its implementation. The Priorities Review Staff report has even suggested that if the Government's program were continued it would not be consistent with the stated objectives and priorities of the Government. What an indictment it is of this Government that it embarks upon a program it cannot deliver or finance and, more importantly, that does not even follow its objectives. 
There is no doubt that pre-school and child care policies were dangled like a carrot on a stick before the nation - a nation that because of the disastrous economic initiatives of this Labor Government now finds that changes have taken place that have transformed the care of our pre-school age children from an isolated, individual problem into a subject of national concern. In 1 972 there were 1 ,092,000 married women in the work force. This figure is increasing dramatically. More women are having to work out of economic necessity. They are either the sole supporters of their households or are supplementing the earnings of their husbands that are inadequate owing to the scourge of inflation - a scourge which is developing at an increasing rate and which is devastating the savings and incomes of our work force. 
There is also the view that women have a more viable place in society and a role that will add to the work force many women who wish to work for the personal satisfaction of using their education, their skills and their creativity. I mention these 2 factors because this influx of women into the work force has made the child care problem visible in our society. If we analysed the need for child care solely in terms of the increased number of working mothers, we would run the risk of the inadequate considerations of the range of possible solutions to our problem. The Government  -  I probably should say the Priorities Review Staff - has discovered this, raising doubts as to the Government's credibility. It can become all too easy to say simply that places must be found to park the children while the mothers are at work. Such a solution leaves out the critical ingredient, that is, the needs of a growing child. The circumstances of our rapidly changing society give the issue of child care a wider dimension than the mere need for baby sitting services while mothers are at work. When we discuss pre-school and child care programs we should be showing a humane concern for a program of national commitment that is both feasible and capable of full development, not one that has stirred the hopes of the nation and now has become a frustrating exercise in political expediency. 
The motion deplores the callous manner in which the Government has seen fit to sacrifice the interests of women and their children. The Labor Government gave a public undertaking which it now does not intend to fulfil. Of course, the child care area is not the only one in the list of promises which have been broken. In the 1972 election campaign the Australian Labor Party, through the present Prime Minister, announced a proposal to allow income tax deductions in respect of payments to a recognised centre up to a maximum of $260 per annum. In answer to a question by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  on this subject in May of last year the Treasurer said that in the circumstances it did not appear practicable to render such payments as an allowable deduction. That is another broken promise. The electors of Australia are now asking - they have every right to ask - questions that an article in yesterday's 'Australian' asked. It stated:  ...  Mr Whitlam  and his 27-man Cabinet have bought a somewhat questionable anti-inflation miniBudget at the expense of one part of society - working mothers. 
The $134m child care program, they decided, was dispensable. Nothing else would do. Not their defence or foreign aid expenditure, not their new departments, increased salaries, health schemes . . . . industry assistance, repatriation perks and other pet ministerial projects. But child care centres. 
At yesterday's Press conference the Prime Minister also announced that the Government intended to buy Boeing 707s for the VIP fleet and his own overseas trips. The purchase and running costs of those 2 planes over just one year would go a long way to meeting the costs of the ... . child care scheme. 
The honeymoon is over, Frank,  Mr Whitlam  told his Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  after their mini-Budget. He should have said the same thing to the women who had voted for him in the hope that the preferred new deal might be theirs too. 
Pre-school and child care programmes, of course, are a philosophical consideration. Let us hope for the sake of Australian children that at least this matter has been settled within the Government. If another ministerial squabble develops over child care as it did at the Australian Labor Party Conference in 1973, it will be some time yet before the objectives and attitudes of the Government are known. 
The Opposition parties made it quite clear before the May election that they would continue the programs which had been developed. At all times they emphasised that having regard to the serious economic situation facing the nation they could not responsibly match the promises made by the Australian Labor Party. Those promises have now been completely repudiated. What did the Government say in the course of the election campaign? The honourable member for Moreton referred to the previous election campaign. I wish to go back to the 1 972 campaign in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
Our program will develop a variety of services including the development of family day care programs, day centres, pre-schools, play groups, outside of school care, emergency and occasional care, toddlers groups and baby-sitting pools. Provision will be made for payment of care by relatives, friends or neighbours. The scheme will be diverse and flexible to recognise different needs of different communities. 
The promises were great vote getters but unplanned, dishonoured and now proving to have been a sham. 
The Prime Minister's adviser on women's affairs said on the radio program 'AM' before the last election: 
The essential test of whether either any party's words are genuine, is the amount of money the politicians have said that they are going to be prepared to spend on the important issues, and if you just take child care and retraining. Liberal-Country Party have said: '$20m we will set aside next year for child care and retraining.' That's not sufficient to keep the present programs going. $130m the Labor Party has promised for an adequate child care program which would benefit every child in the community, whether that child is at or in somebody else's care. 
She went on to say: 
Words are all right, but the sad thing is that when politicians learn the jargon, exploit it for political ends and then forget to put their money where their mouths are. 
On the same radio program on Thursday last, when questioned about future Government proposals, the answer given by  Ms Reid  was: 
I can assure them that the whole future is definitely in the melting pot, because what's going on is a total reassessment of what we have now, anil that is why we are taking great care about implementing it. But at present the second report hasn't even been tabled in Parliament. 
She said further: 
At Federal level you can't have action if you don't have a program. It doesn't impress me to say that the Government is not acting, I don't want the Government to act stupidly, I don't want the Government to act hastily, just due to pressure from whatever sources, and I don't want the Government to spend money foolishly. 
That is what the Prime Minister's adviser on women's affairs had to say before the election and following the election. She is admitting quite openly not only that the Government is unable to meet its financial commitments but also that it did not even have a comprehensive and detailed plan available. 
The Government by its actions and its promises has let down the Australian people generally and our women and children in particular. It has repudiated a public undertaking. It has lost its credibility and it must be concluded that political expediency prompted its professed concern. When politicians use an emotional and sensitive area like child care and exploit it for their own ends, they deserve the nation's strongest censure and condemnation. 
-First of all, I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who made his maiden speech tonight. I am quite sure that this young man will make a very great contribution to this Parliament and also to his own electorate. Last week, when the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  introduced to the House what was only the second Labor Budget in a quarter of a century, the immediate media reaction must well have satisfied the socialist philosophies of the Labor Government. We could well imagine the Treasurer in his role as Robin Hood, his dislike for profits, his desire to strip an individual of the enterprise and initiative that has been the trademark of Australia's development. Of course, it was clear even to one not widely versed in the fundamentals of economic theory that the 2 major problems confronting the nation would not be checked by the Budget strategy. Inflation will still rage ahead. But should the Government be concerned about this when it is a. means of financing an enormous increase of 32.4 per cent in expenditure? 
I was amazed at a statement by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who said that pent up savings were unleashed because of a new aura of confidence when the Labor Government took office. I should like to suggest to him that the fact is that the people started to spend their savings because it was apparent from the ALP policies that inflation was to be used as a tool of the Government. In fact many Australians I believe correctly interpreted this as an intention by a Labor Government to let inflation rip. Should the Government today be concerned about a worsening unemployment situation, a situation in which up to 1,000 people per week are losing their jobs? Where is the reasoning behind a program of social equality if that equality is to be achieved only by payments made through the Department of Social Security? Our people want employment, not welfare. Employment depends largely upon the ability of the private sector to create it. 
It is simply not good enough for senior Ministers who should be responsible for the management and expansion of our economy to gloat over and to point to the Mainline Corporation Ltd collapse as an example of private enterprise. Many of our businesses and firms which are well managed and have provided the means of sound employment and have contributed to a thriving national economy are now under intense pressure. Liquidity is tight, and it will remain so. Private investment has been falling away rapidly and in the long term, particularly now that a tax has been placed on people who have made an effort in the past to be thrifty, this will cripple our ability as a nation to meet those payments of scale to our welfare programs, our health care programs and also to education. 
In his speech to the Liberal-Country Party Government of August 1970 the present Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  asked: 
What has been done in this Budget or outside it to deal with the causes rather than the symptoms of inflation? 1 would say that nothing is being done insofar as this major problem is concerned. 
It has now become obvious even to those members of the national Press who gave such rosy reviews of the 1974 Budget that our Treasurer is still only asking questions; he is still not giving the nation any answers- answers to questions such as why Australia has increased its inflation rate by up to 9 per cent in the last 22 months and answers to the questions being asked by our consumers who are being called upon to meet cost of living increases, particularly to retired people and pensioners who are finding it far beyond their ability to pay. 
This Budget does not provide the answers to these questions; instead it will aggravate the present dangerous situation. There will be a further reduction in personal incentive and productivity. The desirable result of any Budget surely will be cut and will be to the detriment of the country. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and other speakers from the Liberal-Country Party side tonight have adequately expressed the overall effect of this Appropriation Bill. As a representative of a rural electorate I wish to point to specific areas within this Bill that affect my electorate. In the Budget last year the Government set out to bring the excise on brandy into line with that on other spirits and forecast the total removal of the differential that existed. Together with the huge increase in the miniBudget last month this is now being carried out. Surely this must be the first time in the history of the administration of the excise duties that the general public has been warned a year in advance of an increase. This has already had a disastrous effect on brandy sales. Prior to the two latest imposts brandy sales had fallen by 20 per cent, according to the figures that were available before the 1973 Budget. The increase contained in this Budget will effectively increase the cost of a litre of brandy by 40c or, as I believe was accurately stated by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  last week, by up to 12c a bottle. However, it should be remembered that other costs will automatically follow. These products will now be subject to sales tax at 1 5 per cent and to a State liquor licensing fee of 6 per cent in Victoria. This could well mean that the real increase per bottle could be more likely in the vicinity of 15c. 
This Government has proved itself to be incompetent in the way it is treating rural industries. Its decisions relating to the brandy industry give an outstanding example of its lack of understanding of a vital and important industry- an industry in my electorate and in the electorate of Angas that is restricted to specific regions of Australia. The production of brandy faces problems different to those associated with other spirits. It was for those reasons that a differential in duty was warranted. A tonne of grapes produces about 100 litres of brandy. The Government's take through excise and sales tax has increased by 1 9 1 per cent in the last 1 3 months. It is now getting $1,107 for each tonne of grapes used for brandy production, while a grower receives an average of $70 a tonne for his year's work of growing, picking and supplying the grapes. In 1973 the take by the Government was only $420 a tonne. This budgetary measure is just one more example of the vindictive policy that is being directed towards rural industry. This will cause a decrease in sales and, it follows, in grape production. 
One of the most dangerous aspects of this Government's action towards private business, whether urban or rural, is that it is running directly opposite to the direct expressed views that it would support family businesses and farms. The ultimate result of every action that has been taken since Labor came to power in 1972 has resulted in an aggregation of rural holdings and a strengthening and build-up of corporate bodies. 
The Phosphate Fertiliser Bounty Act expires on 31 December 1974. It is not to be renewed. This will effectively remove $34m from the rural sector in 1974-75. With the huge increases in the cost of rock phosphate, the large anticipated rises in freight charges and, more importantly, a world wide need for increased food production, adequate justification exists not for the removal of the bounty but for an increase in the bounty. Policies for primary production should not be considered in isolation or only in relation to the immediate economic worth to the producer or the nation. Of course, the effects of any policy on future land use, on marketing and transport requirements or on the wider community and on the environment must be considered. I suggest that the Government has not made any studies in relation to the effects of the removal of the bounty but rather is simply responding to recommendations made in the Coombs report- or should I call it the Australian Labor Party's handbook for the extermination of rural industries? 
Has the Government considered, for instance, its action in the light of the resultant increase in farm production costs and the reduction in productivity per farm or perhaps the increase in commodity prices? Perhaps the most significant effect of the bounty as provided by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government is that it supported economic production on land that would otherwise have been uneconomic. The effect of the withdrawal of the bounty on the land use of hundreds of thousands of acres of marginal land should not be regarded too lightly. When the effects of the withdrawal of the bounty bite, as they will, it will leave the farmer with little alternative but to neglect largely any portion of his land which produces least or which results in a negative income. As this occurs, not only will rural outputs decrease but also the national resources, the quality of water supplies, public utilities, ports and harbours Will be affected also. 
The purpose of the bounty program when it was introduced in 1963 by a Liberal-Country Party Government was to reduce farm costs, to promote economic production, to facilitate the growth in rural output, and to improve the competitive position of exports. Not one person on the Government benches can deny that this result was achieved. The statistics released last week give an estimate in the gross value of rural production of 1973-74 as $6,5 13m. As a direct result of Government policies- the removal of the bounty, capital gains tax, the surcharge tax on non-earned income, the failure of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  to reintroduce the essential tax concessions for water and fodder conservation- farm incomes could well fall by up to 50 per cent this year. The removal of the bounty is short sighted in a climate when the outlook for rural industries is the worst since the 1930s. I ask the Government to reconsider its position before 3 1 December and to reintroduce this assistance before further erosion occurs in the profitability of those rural industries which have as their basis the family farm. 
A Budget proposal that receives my instant support, not only because it was a matter of policy of the Opposition during the last election campaign but also because it is a necessary national responsibility, is the proposed introduction of a handicapped child's allowance of $10 a week. We could argue as to whether $10 per week is adequate, but this would be unreasonable. The move has been made and it is to be commended. It appears to me that parents or guardians of children who need constant care and attention require assistance to meet circumstances of personal costs and devotion not encountered by parents of a child not afflicted by severe handicaps, irrespective of that child's age. The former Government made no attempts to increase child endowment payments to give encouragement and support to our basic unit- the family. This Government, despite the recommendations contained in the interim report on poverty and the thousands of requests made by organisations, individuals and petitions, has also not responded. Family life today is under challenge. It is not being encouraged by some forms of social legislature introduced and to be introduced by this Government under the guise of reform and social progress. Raising a family today is not easy. The economic and social climates are difficult and incentive and support could well have been provided by substantial endowment payments. Huge expenditure by the Government on child care and pre-school facilities in the future could well prove to have been unnecessary if such incentive was available. 
The development of growth centres and decentralisation have rightly become major endeavours of our national and State governments. Australia has an excellent opportunity to avoid, or at least to correct, the severe ills caused by over-urbanisation in many parts of the world. It will be impossible, however, to achieve programs of long term viability by artificial means of government support. We have seen successful decentralised industries- large employers of rural labour- devastated and ruined by specific government action. Years of achievement, which has never been easy, have been nullified by an across the board tariff decision without reasonable reference to each specific industry, to the efficiency of those industries and to the value of those industries as a component of the total economy. 
I put it to the Government also that until such time as our most essential public utility- I refer to the Post Office- is used as a vehicle to promote balanced development, future gains will also be difficult. The removal of televisionh and radio licence charges is welcome. It is something which I have been recommending for some time, mainly for the reason that all regions of Australia do not have the advantage of an adequate service or reception. Many deficiencies of transmission and quality of programs exist. It is hoped that new initiatives now under way within the PostmasterGeneral 's Department will correct these deficiencies. It is difficult, however, to reconcile the thinking of the Governmnent on this issue when it says that the cost of a public service which is provided for the community as a whole should be met out of general taxation and then proceeds to make substantial increases in postal and telephone charges. The proposed increases represent a significant cost additive to business and private individuals. There will be cutbacks in mailings, with resultant effects upon employment. There is nothing more sobering than an examination of the increases in postal and telephone costs. An article which appeared in Monday's 'Australian' makes interesting reading. It reads in part: 
If hyperinflation is your fear, then it must be the Australian Post Office's ideal, because the increases are in the hyperinflation bracket. 
Telephone connection fee: Up 33 per cent to $80; connection of an additional phone: the same increase to the same amount. If you can't afford the 24 per cent increase in local calls and the increases in trunk calls, you can cancel the service or the APO will take it away from you- the charge for this remains at $15. To add insult to financial injury, if you can't meet the account and the phone is removed, you'll have to pay an extra 33 per cent in future to get it back- the rise is from $60 to $80. 
The attempt in the July mini-Budget to increase the basic postal rate by 28 per cent enraged the Senate, which threw it out, so now the Government is increasing the rate by 42 per cent, from 7c to 10c a stamp . . . 
Aerogrammes will henceforth be a better example of flying inflation than first-rate service- they're rising by 42 per cent, from 14c to 20c. 
-That is right. The article continues: 
You could put them in a Concorde or an SR7 1 and they still wouldn't reach you any faster than 10 years ago, and never on Saturdays, as they used to do. Local mail service and frequency of delivery was good at threepence, a bad joke at 7c and at 10c will bring delight to private courier services. . . . businesses that want fast communication won't pay increased postal charges for a declining service. 
The future management and policy decisions made within the Postmaster-General's Department will have as direct and important an influence upon inflation and employment as most other government decisions do. The Australian Post Office is particularly vital to rural people. It is not just a convenience, it is an integral part of their business operation. As I mentioned earlier, it will ultimately determine the success or otherwise of balanced development. 
In the Treasurer's own words, the expansion in the public sector contained in this Budget is designed to take up the slack emerging in the private sector. This is perhaps the most significant statement in the whole Budget Speech. It emphasises that under Labor the Australian nation is being swiftly guided onto a new course. It heralds m an era of big unions, big business and big government. The importance of the individual having a say in his future and using his enterprise and initiative for the benefit of the whole nation has gone. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It clearly indicates to the Australian people the different direction that would be taken by a Liberal Party-Country Party government. 
-I should like to make a very short contribution to this Bill. It is an important Bill and deals with 3 aspects. I should like to mention the one which makes grants available for research and the training of teachers of handicapped children, including those children with specific learning difficulties. The Country Party, of course, gives its total support to this legislation. The teaching of handicapped children in Australia at this time falls well behind the times. The Senate report on the Commonwealth's role in teacher education which came out in 1972 revealed that within our state education systems the provision for training teachers to teach mentally retarded children was virtually non-existent. Of course there have been some pockets of interest in this field. 
In Victoria the Melbourne Teachers College has a course which turns out a very small number of graduates each year. Other state colleges have limited courses. Some have short courses in inservice training. There are few specific courses for training teachers to teach even mildly or moderately handicapped children. In too many cases teachers with no training or experience in special education are faced with the task of teaching remedial or special classes. This is not only a huge problem for these teachers but also it is a huge problem with children who have complications, emotional disturbances, speech and other learning difficulties as well as the common disability of mental retardation. This Bill, when passed, will make a contribution to the major problem- the critical shortage of specialist teachers. An inquiry into special education in Victoria last year showed that only 98 guidance officers, 43 of whom were still in training, were in the Psychology and Guidance Branch of the Department. These teachers had to serve a school population of more than 600,000. 
The funds that have been recommended in this Bill will enable the enrolment of an additional 20 to 25 students in special education. While the Branch will make a contribution it will be quite inadequate in meeting our present needs. The intake of students for the Bachelor of Special Education course at Monash University will double next year. But the doubling of the intake of students will increase the number of students to 40 only. I think it must also be pointed out that last year when applications were being called for these 20 places, 357 applications were received. I think this points to the tremendous interest by our young people throughout the nation to enter into this type of service for the handicapped. I am quite sure that while the demand next time will not be so great there will still be several hundred applications for the additional 20 places. The Whip has made it well known that this debate should soon be concluded and I bow to bis request. I point out that there is an urgent need for one recognised training course in each State for special school teachers. The limiting factor, as I said, in providing the opportunity for all our handicapped children to have the quality of education that they deserve is qualified teachers. This Bill and any Bill which deals with this particular problem has the complete support of the Opposition and the Country Party in particular. 
It is not my intention to delay the passage of the Universities Commission Bill to any degree. But over the past week I have taken the opportunity to read the 1959 Hansard dealing with the establishment of the Australian Universities Commission by the Liberal-Country Party Government. I also read the speech by the present Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  I am quite sure that when he spoke then in support of that legislation he would have been pleased to know the quality of ideas that have come out of the Commission over the years and have been applied through the universities and of course in turn to our community. The Bill then was successful, and I am quite sure that the changes that are anticipated now will also be successful and are necessary. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  mentioned the 3 areas of change in the Bill. I think the first one, the appointment of a second full time  Deputy Chairman,  is quite justifiable. The work load over the years has increased and I think that areas of abolition of fees, new programs, the developments in special education, etc., and the provision of allowances for needy children emphasise the fact that this work load has increased, changes have taken place and that it is necessary to expand the membership and the work of the Commission. The second change proposed by the Bill interests me a great deal, and that is the definition of universities. Universities are now, I believe, to be defined as those institutions only that are established by State and Australian governments. I believe that this definition is probably quite reasonable. But I believe that there must still be a place in the Australian community for private institutions. The reasonable way to provide for private institutions would be by setting standards rather than by definition. I think that the way to control universities, whether they be government controlled or privately sponsored institutions, is by the setting of clear guidelines in regard to the standards that should be applied to those institutions. 
In adding my support to the Bill I would ask the Minister to give the reason why the word 'Australian' is being deleted from the title of the Australian Universities Commission. The Minister in his second reading speech mentioned that this change is in line with Government practice. However, it appears to me that it has been the practice of the Government since it took office in 1972 to add the word 'Australian' to much of its legislation rather than to remove the word. The Australian Country Party supports the Bill as does the Opposition. The Australian Universities Commission has played an important and vital part in education in this country. I believe that the appointment of a second full time Deputy Chairman will add to its effectiveness. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security justify the disparaging remarks he made about the Leyland P76 motor vehicle recently on national television when he called it a 'lemon'? Is he not aware that that public statement by a senior Minister has thrown into jeopardy successful car dealerships throughout the nation and the jobs of their employees, who collectively have had years of experience in assessing what is good in a motor vehicle? 
-In few other areas of State or Federal Government responsibility has the burden of the effects of inflation been more pronounced than in the area of education. Overall expenditure by all governments on education has shown a dramatic increase over recent years in a genuine endeavour to meet and improve the quality of educational opportunities for all students. There has been doubt for some time now in my mind as to whether the increases in the past 18 months have been as effective in maintaining the momentum in educational expansion as the amount of money being made available implies. I believe it is also becoming evident that greater emphasis has to be placed not just on our expenditures but also on the effects of forms of education upon individual students because of the fact that today they are moving out into a slack labour market and still have to compete for orthodox and stereotype employment. 
In August the Schools Commission presented to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  a report which showed that supplementary grants were now needed even though it is only months since allocation arrangements were made. I think speakers on the other side of the House have missed the real point of this Bill. It is a supplementary Bill that is needed because of the effects of inflation and cost increases upon the programs of the Federal Government to assist primary and secondary schools through both State government and Federal government initiated programs. It is quite obvious that the diminishing purchasing power of grants has frustrated plans to expand and improve educational services. For some time now many schools and advisory councils have been expressing grave concern to me at the protracted delay in alterations or new building programs. In the electorate of Mallee, for instance, improvements that have been talked about and approved in principlein fact in some cases tenders had even been called- were recently frozen by the Victorian State Government owing to a lack of finance. There have been delays in alterations to an administrative area, a humanities complex and art rooms at the Kerang High School, while in the same town construction of a new arts and crafts centre at the primary school was stopped. A similar situation developed at the Swan Hill High School, where a much needed library block was delayed. These works will probably now go ahead, but new tenders must be called for the works. Of course this will result in further delays. 
In all schools affected by delays the staff and the students have suffered poor working conditions for a long time and it is a credit to the teachers that they have not added to the problems by causing industrial unrest. The specific examples I have given are not isolated instances but are examples of what has been quite common througout Australia and throughout the State of Victoria, where in recent months numerous projects have had to be frozen. Recriminations have been flowing backwards and forwards between the State and Federal governments. Concerned people in my electorate have been continually asking me to establish at what government level the blame could be laid. I am not interested in establishing fault. 
What does concern me is that the supplementary finance is now being made available and can be used to continue the necessary programs. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  made quite an issue of the fact that the State governments were not spending the finance available. Whilst I acknowledge the increased amounts of money that have been made available by the Federal Government I think it is fair to recognise at this time the problems of all our State governments because of the slack economic conditions. Within the building industry problems have arisen in providing the services necessary to use the money that is available. However, one thing of which we can be quite certain is that inflation has pushed up building costs, particularly in rural areas, by up to 80 per cent. Administrative and salary costs are also now claiming an ever-increasing percentage of the education estimates, leaving a smaller percentage of the total to be spent on improving our facilities and the quality and efficiency of our systems. 
As pointed out, this legislation makes available $64.47m in recurrent grants to schools and $ 14.43m in capital grants up to 31 December 1975. Of those sums government schools will receive $35.6m in recurrent grants and $ 11.83m for capital purposes. Non-government schools will receive an additional $23.67m towards recurrent costs and $2.5 lm for capital expenditure. It is interesting to note that $8.29m will be added to programs which apply to both government and non-government schools. It is also interesting to note that the Interim Committee in framing its financial recommendations for the 1974-75 biennium made some allowance for price rises. It pointed out quite correctly that, in the interests of consistency and in the absence of acceptable measures of rates of increase in primary and secondary education costs, provision must be made for inflation, but no authority could be held responsible for the drastic effect of the Government's policies upon our economy. Not only has the value of our dollar been reduced to a shadow of its former self; there has also been an attack by the Government on private enterprise particularly in an environment of tight credit, which is driving construction firms out of business or into inaction. The Schools Commission has the administrative responsibility for those programs supported through the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-73. It has therefore recommended to the Government this supplement to the funds currently provided so that the achievement of program objectives will not be impaired by the huge reductions in the purchasing power of the original grants. 
How often since this Government has been in office have we seen ad hoc decisions taken without any apparent consultation or economic reasoning. It is therefore refreshing to be able to read in the report of the Schools Commission the actual criteria on which it bases its new assessments. I feel that these should be placed in Hansard. This would at least assist from a Federal member's point of view in any future protests from schools if this Government allows inflation to continue out of control and takes measures that further weaken the purchasing power of our dollar. The Commission believes that in the present circumstances and given the nature of school budgeting any favourable adjustments to recurrent expenditure grants to schools should take into account all costs increases that have occurred since the dimensions of the Government's program were first determined, and should also provide for future increases. 
Payments should be made, the Commission says, in such a way that schools receive the benefit of the supplement at the time the expenses are incurred. By taking into account cost increases which have actually taken place since the Interim Committee made its calculations and by making provision for future increases the Commission has assessed that the unexpended portion of the 1974 recurrent grants should be increased by some 17 per cent and the 1975 grants by 21 per cent. The Schools Commission said that it will be appreciated that these percentages do not represent annual rates of price movements but are rather the estimated rates required to maintain the momentum of the originally planned program. A finite supplement to the recurrent grants is considered to be appropriate at this time pending the development of an index of school operating costs which will be of assistance in making allowances for reasonable increases in running expenses in a manner compatible with national economic policy. 
The Commission went on to say that it is important that the method used be publicly known, for although all running cost increases which have occurred over the past 18 months have been incorporated in the supplementary recurrent grants calculations, such may not be the case over the next 18 months. It said that to the extent that educational costs increase at a rate greater than the rate of general cost increases considered tolerable by the Government, the aim of restoring the intended purchasing power of recurrent grants will not be completely achieved though the recommendations contained in the report. The Commission hoped, however, that a spirit of restraint would prevail among those who are influential in educational decision making in order to contain the rate of inflation in the school sector. The Opposition supports the Bill. The ravages of inflation are having a detrimental effect upon the works programs far in excess of the percentage increase of this supplementary grant. A Bill relating to universities has also been introduced into the Parliament to give supplementary assistance in that area. 
-That is correct. If we are to obtain value for the large increases in educational spending by all our State governments and the Federal Government in the long term the diminishing power of our currency must be controlled and productivity must rise in our service industries. I was very interested in some of the comments made by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  I have said that I have no hesitation in acknowledging the extra financial assistance that is being made available by the Federal Government to the State education systems and directly, but I point out to him that it is the poor non-government schools that are feeling the pinch at present. I draw the attention of the Minister for Education to a question asked by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  when he was Acting Minister for Education during the absence of the Minister. The honourable member asked about the announcement of building grants on 22 September of $1.5m for disadvantaged Catholic schools in 3 States. He stated that the amounts allocated were identical with those indicated to the applicants several months previously which had not then been received. The honourable member wanted to know whether those grants were one and the same allocation and if so, whether they were to have been made from last year's Budget. 
If this is the case, will there be another similar grant this financial year, and when will it be announced? If there is to be only one grant allocated, is the Minister prepared to make a supplementary grant to cover the cost of bridging finance used in anticipation since the allocation was announced and to overcome the loss in the value of inflationary costs in the building industry? This is one area where the Opposition has very real concern. Many schools which have been advised of grant allocations have gone ahead in anticipation and are running themselves into quite large overdrafts. They are desperately in need of the money they are expecting. If the construction industries can get an injection of confidence and incentive to meet the heavy demands being made upon them in all areas of activity, and particularly in education, we will see a tremendous benefit deriving from the increases in expenditure being made by all our governments. 
I think it is very proper at this stage to point out that State governments are, from their own resources, accepting a major share of the financial responsibility towards the provision of educational services. There would be few State governments which are not spending from 40 per cent to 50 per cent of their total budgetary expenditure on education and one wonders how far a State government can go with its limited resources towards meeting the needs of our education system. I believe that in Queensland nearly 90 per cent of total expenditure on education is met by the State Government while 7 per cent comes from the Schools Commission. The Opposition- and, as I am speaking for the Australian Country Party, particularly the Australian Country Party- supports this BUI. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. The Minister will be aware that there is growing concern in the fruit industry that the sugar agreement was allowed to expire at the end of September and there appear to be no plans for the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee meetings which are usually held in late November to fix minimum prices in respect of certain fruit varieties. Will the Minister ensure that, if it is not possible for a new sugar agreement to be reached in time for this fruit season, the present agreement will be extended so that minimum prices can be set? Does the Minister agree that without a sugar agreement the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee cannot set stable prices and this would be contrary to the Labor Government's support for incomes stability in agriculture? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a policy of the Government that aged persons pensions, wherever possible, should represent 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? If it is, would the provision of $700,000 help the Government to achieve this aim? Could this amount of $700,000 for increased pensions be achieved by a saving by the Government if the Prime Minister cancelled his charter of a Qantas aircraft to visit Europe soon? Would pensioners appreciate such a move? 
-As previous speakers have pointed out, this cognate debate deals with 3 Bills- the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2), the State Grants (Advanced Education) Bill and the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill. I do not believe that the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) requires any detailed examination, except that I should point out that the Bill, which provides an additional sum of $5 1 m, is necessary not because of an expanded program of capital expenditure but to meet the diminishing purchasing power of the Australian currency brought about by inflation. Huge increases in building costs, in fact the difficulty the building industry is having in meeting the nation's development programs, combined with escalating administration and salary costs, have drastically reduced the effectiveness of increases in education financing. 
However, I wish to turn my attention to the most important of the 3 Bills, that on technical and further education. The report if the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education was tabled in this Parliament in April. It is a most significant report, and I believe that the Committee which submitted it made a serious and non-political attempt to isolate the problems that existed within the Cinderella of education- technical education. Technical education is still regarded as a poor relation when compared with colleges of advanced education or universities, and if one takes into account the support given to it from either the State or Federal governments. There is, I believe, a shortage of technical facilities, particularly in the rural areas, and this shortage creates major difficulties in mounting new courses to meet changing community needs. There is a shortage of accommodation, particularly for the teaching staff, and this is a most common deficiency. There are few opportunities for in-service training. What facilities there are are usually concentrated in metropolitan areas. Every effort must be made, I believe, to assist staff to attend in-service training as a relief from teaching programs. 
There is also an obvious need to improve the status of technical aducauon in the eyes of the community, which in the past has tended to regard it as second-class. I was interested to note that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  emphasised the poor conditions that existed in some areas of his electorate. I cannot complain about the poor conditions and facilities that exist in my electorate in the technical schools at Irymple, Swan Hill and Mildura. I am sure that there are no better schools in the Commonwealth. But what I do complain about is the lack of technical facilities throughout the area. All these issues I believe were discussed in the TAFE report, yet tonight we are debating this Bill, which allocates $89.268m to the States over 2 years, when we have not had the opportunity to discuss in the Parliament the recommendations or ramifications of the report from which this Bill has been developed. If I remember correctly, when this report was tabled in the Federal Parliament the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  spoke on it for some 25 minutes and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  spoke on it for about 8 minutes- not a very long period of time in which to discuss a report of such importance. Are we to assume that every report tabled in this House and the recommendations contained therein are to be accepted without debate or discussion in the public forum? 
Other speakers for the Opposition tonight have emphasised the uniqueness of this Bill and the ridiculous conditions and demands that the clauses of this Bill place upon the efficient administration of the expenditure of the money. Duplication of the administrative processes at both the State and the Federal level will be inevitable owing to the unrealistic conditions contained in it- conditions that could easily allow the Australian Government to create a debt for the State governments if in fact the Minister or 'an authorised person wished to revoke or vary any projects undertaken by a State'. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has fully exposed these clauses. It must surely be beyond the bounds of reason that a Minister or a person authorised by him in Canberra can revoke or vary any proposal relating to the purchase of any items of equipment down to this insignificant cost of $2,000 in connection with any technical or further education processes in any State. I believe that the trends in education must be towards regionalisation and not centralisation. 
As this House will have no opportunity to discuss the report of the Committee on Technical and Further Education I would like to make some brief comments on the areas of controversy and deficiency within it. I must say that there quite rightly appears to be a general consensus in agreement with the general principles and recommendations in the report. In essence, the sums recommended by  Mr Kangan  over 18 months from 1 July 1974 to 31 December 1975 now appear to have been applied to a 2-year period. The three main exceptions to that statement are the capital expenditure grants for land, buildings and design, the disappearance of the possible matching capital expenditure grant and the reduction in the research grant to be administered by the Committee on Technical and Further Education from $550,000 to $250,000. Thus a total of some $89m has been allocated over 2 years to technical and further education in the States compared with the sum of $ 105 m recommended by  Mr Kangan  over 18 months. The $20m provided in this Bill to the States for fee reimbursement purposes was in continuation of an earlier Government initiative. As this is now to apply over a period of 2 years rather than the projected 18 months some shortages of recurrent funds may result. 
-I have read the comment that has been provided in the report by the Committee on Technical and Further Education in which it has recognised this drawback and has recommended to the Government that this matter be rectified. 
I am just going to refer to it now,  Mr Minister.  The Committee pointed out and drew attention to 2 aspects of the Government's program which it saw as being of concern within the report. The first is related to the repercussions of the Government's decision to extend the period of the program from the recommended 1 8 months to 2 years and particularly the effect that this has had on the amount of funds provided for the reimbursement of fees. The second was the general effect of rising prices on the level of grants approved by the Government. I am pleased to agree with the amendment introduced by the Government to rectify the very serious deficiency which did occur in the report and which has now been corrected. 
In the light of increasing contributions to areas of post-secondary education, large scale involvement by the Australian Government in the financing of technical education must have appeared inevitable if severe imbalances were not to be induced between tertiary and subtertiary vocational training opportunities and manpower supplies. It could be that the maintenance of a continuing balance and an efficient allocation of resources between the various sectors of higher and further education might require an umbrella co-ordinating commission with separate committees for universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges. The level of funds currently recommended for technical and further education, on the report's own admission, has been largely determined by the States' ability to organise themselves immediately for the use of the extra money. At present an important intricate factor in the Australian Government's interest in technical education may be concerned with attempts to ease student entry pressures on more expensive full time universities and colleges of adult education, particularly in the re-channelling of intending tertiary students to para-professional certificate courses. 
In failing to relate its own recommendations to the external studies proposal that was formulated by the recent open tertiary education inquiry, the Kangan report may of course not be promoting the efficient use of Australian Government funds in the entire higher and further education field. Although recommendations to hold further inquiries on technical education, teacher preparation, paid study leave, apprenticeship education, trade union education and financial assistance to adult education may have emerged from a genuine lack of sufficient consideration time, it is also true that the current injection of large sums of money might be poorly spent in the long term if technical education's scope and directions are to alter radically following completion of the special inquiries. In the short term, of course, inquiry delays do limit the extent of Australian Government financial outlays. The May 1974 report on Australian labour market training- the Cochrane report- and developments in apprenticeship training assistance schemes could also greatly increase the pressure on technical and further education systems. 
The Kangan report has given scant attention to the effects of these latter possibilities, regarding them basically as matters that the proposed Commission will need to pursue. The committee appears to have placed little stress on the possible contributions by private organisations, such as employers, to technical and further education financial assistance. The report took the view that technical education ought not to involve itself in manpower planning, but should establish systems whereby rapid educational reaction to employment needs could occur. It is nonetheless noteworthy that the Kangan committee neither addressed itself in any depth to national manpower needs and goals, nor encouraged as a matter of prime importance surveys of supply and demand in particular labour market areas, with an eye to maximum efficiency in the use of these funds. Indeed, large scale injection of funds has been recommended for reorganisation and development without apparent regard to detailed manpower priorities, needs and objectives. 
The report appears to be deficient in its treatment of migrants' special problems. The question of award conversion is introduced almost as an afterthought in one conclusion. Migrants might well require special study on their own with individual treatment given to specific ethnic groups to facilitate their entry into the technical and further education field. Although technical teacher organisations had requested that a national inquiry be instituted into their salaries, the report ignored this issue and its relationship to technical and further education advancement. If technical education is to gain further parity in public esteem with higher education there would seem to be considerable merit in the general principle of salary equity with teachers in universities and colleges of advanced education. Technical education is concerned primarily with establishing and extending vocational competence, and the importance of this aspect of individual development is obvious. Technical education, however, has other broader objectives and effects. Whilst self-fulfilment for individuals remains the primary aim, a constant regard to national and community needs is vital especially for trained manpower. A technical school should offer a great diversity of courses and no uniform examinations requirement should be necessary for admission. It should offer opportunities to people with a wide variety of educational backgrounds and life experience. Technical education must keep in touch with developments in industry and commerce. 
It should be recognised that education, viewed as consumption in the economic sense, is expensive. Equality of opportunity and quality in provision spring from a sound economy. Technical schools must become increasingly involved in retraining as our pattern of work and life style change. I agree wholeheartedly with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Moreton, particularly clauses (a) and (b) which give emphasis to the fact that the States are going to have imposed on them by the implementation of this Bill intolerable and unacceptable administration burdens. I agree with the amendment and support the Bill as amended. 
-This Bill, the Australia Council Bill 1974, establishes a statutory authority for all purposes connected with the promotion of the arts and provides for the function and powers of that Council. The Opposition is in agreement with the proposals to have a broadly based authority so that the aspirations of our community can be on the widest base possible. The possibility is therefore decreased that any established organisation or powerful elitist group can maintain too solid a grip on the Council 's affairs, as this legislation insists on strict limitations of a member's tenure of office not normally required, I might say, in other Australian statutory authorities. 
I dunk we must all agree that there is a growing desire and interest for the enrichment, preservation and development of all aspects of our environment. The demand to participate in the cultural life of our community is increasing and will continue to increase as more leisure time becomes available and as this becomes a major social issue. Governments and man in modern societies must continue to search for ways to integrate the arts into our society and to involve the public closely with the cultural life of our communities. I will not deny that there has been a separation of the arts from the public. The paradox is that it has occurred at a time of rapid world urbanisation, technology and automation, when the machine is greatly changing our human life patterns of work and of play, while on the other hand more time has been created and there are less positions to occupy our energy. 
The Australian Council for the Arts must be given an opportunity to do those things set out in this Bill. Its validity, of course, will be able to be judged during its second term when such judgments can be based on performance and good faith. The administration can then be appraised objectively. I do not wish to canvass the functions of the Council but I do wish to mention briefly some points not specifically documented in this Bill but which I feel will be vital to this Council's success. One of the main obstacles to participation in the arts is a lack of understanding within our general public. The normal practice of simply bringing cultural performances and exhibitions to our communities has left our communities in some cases culturally deprived. These will not in themselves guarantee a wider appreciation of the arts. The actual experience of creativity, that is, active participation in the arts, is a most important step towards fostering a greater understanding and appreciation of them. Therefore, it will be desirable to promote community involvement in the arts and to combine this with visits from opera, ballet, concerts and the like. Art consumers would then be able to identify with a better understanding of performances and of artistic and creative events. 
It should be recognised, though, that culture, especially the arts, cannot be imposed on people. People cannot be uplifted culturally unless they so desire and have a sense of our cultural heritage. We have to bring experience into the arts through the schools and by extending the involvement in them to the home and the work situation as well as to leisure periods. Greater emphasis will have to be placed by administrative bodies on more support to smaller- perhaps even experimental- organisations together with our creative individuals. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  spent a great deal of time, and rightly so, discussing how the Council could be of tremendous support and assistance to those people connected with the arts in a very intimate way. I believe that the prime purpose of establishing a council such as this is to assist and interest community participation in the arts. 
I can think of many small professional bodies in my electorate which are working energetically to promote the arts in the community. I am quite sure that they will feel more confident in the long term if such a co-ordinating body as this can assist them, not only financially but by aiding them in establishing contact with sister galleries or allied institutions. Whilst I cannot claim to have had any acting experience as the honourable member for Franklin can claim, I have seen the dedicated work of these small groups. They must be given the greatest praise not only for bringing art to regions that would otherwise not receive it but also for promoting local participation in and application of the arts in the community. For instance, in Mildura we have a magnificent art gallery which preserves the heritage of the past but combines with a modern and spacious gallery adequate theatre amenities. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Franklin has heard of the city of Swan Hill where, by an understanding and enjoyment of the arts by a few people, opportunities have been provided for persons to practise the arts. They have promoted an annual Shakespeare festival for many years, the only one of its kind in Australia. That festival has been a vital and growing part of that community and for many years has played a very important part in the year's activities. The cultural life of the whole of Victoria, particularly the rural areas which are young in terms of development, has been enriched by these small groups and individuals restoring and promoting the heritage of the past in museums, pioneer settlements and the visual arts. I am very grateful to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  who a fortnight ago made a grant of $2m over the next 5 years to the Robinvale aboriginal people to establish a museum of Aboriginal culture of the Murray Valley. 
The final point I would like to canvass is the need to investigate consumer needs and preferences and to enable those people normally unable to afford the cost of attending art performances to do so in the future. The functions of the Council do not expressly include the fostering of the interests of the consumers. The crux of this issue is simply not supply of arts for the masses versus arts for the elite. The trade-off is seen better, I believe, as that of spending money on inducing the uninitiated to start attending and participating in artistic events that are tailored to their untrained tastes as against spending more on educating existing audiences. It is simply not feasible to go on promoting those art events which the vast majority of people refuse to attend. Surveys could well be taken of a wide range of events, concentrating not just on opera, ballet and drama but on fringe theatre, jazz, folk music and poetry readings. 
Many criticisms have been made of this Bill, mainly revolving around the concern that the Board will not truly represent the nation's wide diversity of artistic talent. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
It is our intention that Government support for the arts should not become the province of entrenched interests and that it should serve, in the widest possible way, the artistic needs and aspirations of the Australian community. 
This should be the ultimate aim of the Council. I am quite sure that, if that aim is advanced and is successful, the Council will have done its work well. 
Of course, one could speak in this debate on the Government's priorities as they have been established since the Austraiian Labor Party attained office. For instance, one could well ask whether the purchase of the paintings 'Blue Poles' or 'Woman V, irrespective of the varying opinions of their artistic value, will do as much for promoting the public appreciation and enjoyment of the arts as would a tour of the Sydney and Melbourne Symphony Orchestras to many of the regions of Australia, similar to the tour which was made by the orchestra to Europe, as mentioned by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  Such a tour could not be financed out of a communities own funds. I think that a project such as this is one that could very readily be undertaken by the Council for the Arts in an endeavour to bring such an orchestra to all people, wherever they may live in Australia. If this Council can provide the opportunities for the public to be closely involved in the arts and the cultural life of the country it will be fulfilling its purpose. This is why the Opposition gives its support to the Bill. 
-by leave-I wish to add my support to that given by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  to the report tabled by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. As a relatively new member of the Committee I also must congratulate those members who have drawn up this report. With the honourable member for Bennelong, I add my congratulations to the  Chairman  of that Committee,  Senator Milliner,  for the tremendous amount of tolerance that he showed as  Chairman  and also for his great attention to detail. It would have been possible to present this report at an earlier date but, because of the detail on which the  Chairman  insisted, I believe that we now have a much better report and one which is more satisfactory. 
I compliment also the staff who assisted the Joint Committee. I believe that the value of the work that the staff provided is evident in the report. Because of that work, the report has been produced most rapidly following quite a number of complications. It is quite proper that Canberra as a growing and vigorous city should have some self-determination in its government. But I do believe that it should recognise that with this will involve a tremendous amount of financial responsibility. This report will be the basis for discussion and of many references not only in Australia but throughout the rest of the world. I support the tabling of the report. 
-This legislation proposes a major change in the structure of Australian society. The nature and quality of the debate indicates that this Parliament is well aware of the profound effects of radical changes in the nation's divorce laws. It also clearly indicates the very broad spectrum of opinion and attitude that exists within our nation on this issue. There is an urgent need for divorce reform. Our present archaic legislation does nothing to promote a strengthening of a human relationship. Where difficulties have developed in a marriage and hostilities exist, our current laws have, I believe, led to a further deterioration. Vindictiveness, indignity and hatred too frequently are the results of divorce proceedings. 
We are dealing here with the relationship of human beings, with a situation that requires tolerance, patience and many compromises of 2 people usually with different personalities. I doubt that anyone who has had a deep relationship with another person, where love and respect have existed, will rush into divorce with gay abandon or irresponsibility irrespective of the divorce laws. However, marriage must begin with a strong conviction that it is to be a lasting contract and union between 2 people- a contract not to be taken lightly but at the same time a recognition of the understanding and involvement that will be required for success. It is in this environment that our divorce laws of today must be framed. They must be framed with some restraint upon each person and yet be humane, just and of a reality to protect disrupted lives without leaving them scarred by hate, disgust and contempt 
Before dealing with aspects of this Family Law Bill 1 974 in closer detail I must comment on approaches that have been taken by some speakers in this debate as well as representations from the Australian community at large. Over past months all of us as members of Parliament have been inundated with volumes of letters from individuals and groups expressing their concern either for or against this Bill. It is totally unfair and sometimes dishonest to point to any section of these representations, as some honourable members have done, as bigoted, selfrighteous or self-seeking. Every person in a democracy should have his belief considered with respect. It is also not correct to quote religious denominations or community organisations as strictly adhering to one view or another. Within every church there are divisions of opinion, as there are within other groups. In the majority of representations, however, one thing is quite evident, and that is that this legislation's intent and content are not understood. There is a clear lack of communication with the electorate at large on this Bill, as there is on many initiatives of the Government or Parliament. 
Too many of our people see this legislation, depending on their beliefs, as a complete threat to the institution of marriage as the basic unit of society, or on the other hand as the complete answer in removing the resentment and bitterness that occur when marriage breakdowns and divorce proceedings are inevitable. Neither extreme point of view is acceptable. Seldom is legislation black or white. No Bill that this Parliament produces will remove entirely the trauma and heartbreak of a family disruption. Equally, a parliament cannot by legislation establish a moral attitude or a social standard. Our responsibility is to compromise a difficult situation whereby our actions do not promote a relaxed attitude to the value and institution of marriage but at the same time we recognise that we are dealing with human lives and relationships in which friction, difficulties and irretrievable breakdowns do occur. 
I turn to the aspects of this Bill that meet with my approval. The extension of counselling and reconciliation facilities is to be commended, as is the establishment of family courts where private proceedings can take place. Of course, we can all argue about the effectiveness of these initiatives and we can doubt their applications; but the expressed intent is good and should be supported. The benefits and results of these clauses depend not on this Bill but on the future successful and dedicated administration of its provisions. It has been correctly argued that adequate counselling before marriage is more desirable. Of course we are all in agreement with that; we may wish to argue about it on this Bill. But unfortunately it does not come within the ambit of this legislation. 
There are 123 clauses in this Bill. Following over 100 amendments by the Opposition in the Senate, this Bill is now greatly improved. Today the main causes of concern revolve around clause 48, which of course contains the true philosophy of the legislation. Clause 48 ( 1 ) states: 
An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the f round that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. (2)  Subject  to sub-section (3) in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. (3) A decree . . . shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
This clause states 2 objectives: Firstly, it provides for the removal of fault provisions from the Act. On this issue I give my support. The proof of fault in divorce proceedings has made a farce of law and has greatly damaged the institution of marriage. Parties to divorce proceedings have, under the existing law, suffered great indignity, bitterness and hostility and resorted in many cases to fraud. Once proceedings have reached this level of confrontation great damage occurs to the human relationship, huge cost and expenses occur and the fracturing of the family ties where children are involved is often irreparable. 
All divorce proceedings must produce heartbreak and trauma but this objective should assist in producing a more humane judgment. The second objective of this clause relates to the time of separation. On this issue all of us as individuals must satisfy our own beliefs and research. As a Christian, I believe marriage should be regarded as a contract mutually undertaken by 2 people for life. It should neither be entered into lightly nor broken lightly. On this basis I am convinced that a 12-month separation period by a unilateral decision of one partner will weaken the nature of the contract, will produce an attitude damaging to the values of the institution of marriage and therefore will not act as a buttress to society's structure. 
I will therefore be supporting in the Committee stage an amendment to this clause so that consenting parties only can obtain divorce within a 12-month separation period. A 24-month separation period will be necessary if the 2 parties to a divorce do not agree. It is most important that Parliament does not assist the development of an attitude among our young people that marriage is dispensable. Marriage between 2 people carries with it great responsibilities. It is the most important decision 2 people can make in their lives. Parliament has a responsibility to protect or perhaps a better word is to support a new marriage. I wish to make it quite clear that I will not support this Bill unless the objective I have mentioned is so amended. I do, however, believe that not to give this Bill a second reading would be a negative decision if ample opportunity is to be available to discuss and amend, if necessary, each clause in the Committee stage. 
As the honourable member for Moreton,  Mr Killen,  has pointed out, mis-representation can be made if one's attitude and methods of procedure are not understood or are misconstrued. It is not my intention to detain the House, but I must mention 2 other clauses in which I will be supporting changes. Clause 75 (2) (f), which provides for the court to take into account eligibility for social security benefits when determining maintenance, regardless of the wealth of the husband, is utter nonsense. Costs such as this should not be transferred to the state, that is to the taxpayer. If the spouse is capable of meeting his financial responsibilities to his partner or his family he should do so. 
I also ask the House to look at clause 75 ( 1 ) (1) which makes a husband, if he can afford it, pay alimony to a wife who is living in a de facto relationship. This clause is contained in the present Act. It should not be continued in this Bill. It should be eliminated. It contains, and in fact supports, an adulterous relationship. As I have said, many honourable members still have to speak in this debate. A large number of amendments are to be moved in the Committee stage. I hope Parliament will give adequate time to the Committee stage of this Bill so that we can debate every clause which is causing difficulties for many of us and to which we believe some alteration should be made. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister, who will recall addressing a meeting in Parliament House on 22 October 1 974 convened by the Murray Valley Development League and attended by Federal members from electorates taking in the River Murray system. In that address he supported my concern at the lack of progress by established River Murray working parties and stated that he would call a further meeting of State Premiers to accelerate investigations if results were still unsatisfactory by March 1975. 1 ask: Have the working parties made further reports? If so, what steps are being taken to implement their findings? If not, what moves has the Prime Minister taken in the light of his commitment to this urgent problem? 

 Mr WHITLAM I did make the speech. I gave the undertaking to which the honourable gentleman refers 6 months ago. I am not sure if there have been further reports from the working parties. I should ask my colleague the Minister for Environment and Conservation on that matter. I have discussed another meeting with the Premier of South Australia who is at present overseas. I expect to hear from him within the next couple of weeks whether he would like me again to invite the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and himself to confer. 
As the honourable gentleman will realise, it is purely for historical reasons that the Australian Government can participate at all in the River Murray Waters Agreement. The Constitution gives this Parliament authority with respect to navigation between the States. Before the First World War there was navigation on the River Murray between the States and in those circumstances the Australian Government made an agreement, I think in 1915, with the 3 riparian States to make the waters of the Murray more navigable. It was under that system that the weirs were built. No navigation takes place on the River Murray now, and certainly not interstate. Of course, the water of the River Murray is now used totally for consumption by crops, animals, humans and industries. The quality of the water from the river gives more cause for concern now than the quantity of water. Constitutionally the Australian Government has very little authority over the waters of the Murray, but because it is a party to the agreement it does have some options in asking the heads of the 3 State governments concerned to confer from time to time. I would expect to hear within a couple of weeks from the Premier of South Australia, whose State suffers more than the other States from the poor quality of the Murray water, whether he would wish me again to invite the 3 Premiers to confer in terms of the River Murray Waters Agreement. I last did so in February or March 1973. 1 will be happy to do so again if  Mr Dunstan  or either of the other Premiers wishes me to invite them to a 4-way conference. 
-The development of new curricula and teaching methods is as important as and probably more important than the provision of educational facilities. This fact in itself emphasises the importance of this Bill to establish a Curriculum Development Centre as a statutory authority, with an expenditure of some $2m to $3m when it is in full operation. Previous governments have seen fit to give support and financial aid to national projects. I think two of them particularly are worth mentioning as they have been valuable. One is the Australian Science Education Project for which previous governments gave $940,000 over 5 years. Another is a program to stimulate Asian languages and cultures, for which $1.5m was given over a 5-year period. 
I believe that a factual criticism of this Government in many areas is that it should give more consideration to improving communication through its departments, back to the grass roots level. Because of this communication problem I will quote from the Bill the functions of the proposed Curriculum Development Centre. They are: 
To undertake curriculum development tasks and to develop tasks and to develop teaching and learning materials for use in schools, 
To commission and support curriculum and materials development, 
To display equipment and materials, 
To publish assessments and information about equipment and materials, 
To provide advisory services relating to curriculum and materials development, and 
To arrange the printing and marketing of materials. 
As mentioned by previous speakers for the Opposition, we support this legislation in principle and its general content, but as I have already stated we will be proposing amendments. We believe that these will bring the States into even closer consultation and co-operation. It is vitally important, not only for reasons of co-operation but also for reasons of economy, that this should occur. 
It is not my intention to delay this House as the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  did in giving us a lecture on the hourly duties of the teaching profession, but I believe that I should express my general support. In view of the comments that have already been made in this debate I do not intend to canvass the contents of the Bill, its functions or the mode of operation of the Curriculum Development Centre. However, for a few moments I would like to discuss the value of such a Curriculum Development Centre and its application to the schools. Undoubtedly the last 15 years or so have produced innovation and productivity in curricula and teaching methods. New ideas have not always been accepted, and it is possible that this difficulty is due partly to the acceptance of overseas ideas that often are being discarded overseas as outmoded or unsuitable even before they reach the class-rooms here. In saying that I must admit, however, that we have also gained much from some overseas ideas. The value of this Centre will be decided ultimately by the 'pay-off' at the grass roots level. This makes it important that the development of curriculum as a decision-making process should closely involve the teacher, and in the final analysis the pupils in the class-room. There are signs that this is happening and teachers in Australia are becoming more involved in curriculum development either individually or as members of trial panels in conjunction with development projects. 
The Victorian Secondary Social Science project is involving teachers in this way but their valuable work is negated by a lack of funds- in fact a lack of any budget at all. A seeding grant from the Myer Foundation originally started this project in Victoria. The salaries are paid by the Education Department but it is here that assistance stops. It has great difficulty in disseminating its results to the schools. It has no money to publish satisfactorily the valuable journal entitled 'A Study of Society'. This project has developed a tremendous amount of material. It covers not only our secondary schools but also our technical schools. As I mentioned it has no opportunity and no possibility to disseminate the material. It is vitally important that teachers develop materials for their own use. Great care should be taken to preserve and expand this principle. Another bureaucracy must not be allowed to develop that runs parallel to and results in any duplication of projects. I do not believe that the Bill clearly defines this issue, yet it is probably the most important issue for the effective operation of the Curriculum Development Centre. 
Curriculum development appears to have been hamstrung to a degree in the past when dominant personalities in the process are theorists. We must have a balance of representation upon the statutory authority. Academics, research workers and teachers who will be involved not only in the development of curricula but also in the practical applications in the class room are all important, but one group should not be dominant. Curriculum development projects must be viewed and adapted to social reality. It is no longer valid in Australia to assume that our society has a single set of broadly homogeneous values shared by all ethnic sub-groups and classes in it. It has been suggested by many authors on this subject that, the greater the degree of internal structural and cultural differentiation of a society, the less likely it is that educational institutions will promote all ethnic groups' values equivalently. As an established empirical generalisation, it seems that in modern societies some groups' values and skills predominate over those of other groups. These groups, which have a consequent advantage at school, are those which have an economic and power advantage in modern society. In any pluralist society's education system, one form of dominant group can be that which plays the major role in curriculum development. That must be avoided at all costs if the formation of a national Curriculum Development Centre is to fulfil its important purpose. As curriculum projects are set up they must be allowed autonomy in the styles they adopt. The retention of regional differences and contrasting social and ethnic differences is important. A close relationship with the schools is imperative. I believe that this can best be achieved by using ad hoc committees on projects, particularly by the inclusion of seconded teachers who are sensitive to the needs of students and who are from different schools and areas. This will provide a broad consensus of opinion and experience. I see this Bill as being a most important and valuable initiative. Its success, naturally, will depend upon the apparent results and its impact upon the classroom being commensurate with the expenditure of money and the time and effort that will undoubtedly go into it. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I wish to speak briefly in support of the establishment of the Technical and Further Education Commission. Also I support the proposal and the amendments put forward by the honourable member for Stun  (Mr Wilson).  As pointed out, this Commission is to be concerned not only with technical education but also with adult education in technical colleges. A most important area of concern for the Commission will be the fostering of opportunities for recurrent education. The report of the Interim Committee on technical and further education in Australia takes an important step in the direction of lifelong education and of opportunities for reentry into education. As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  pointed out in his second reading speech, it also recommends unrestricted access for adults to vocationally oriented education. This should remove barriers discouraging adults and it should have particular regard for the needs of women, country students, migrants and handicapped persons. 
Today there is no valid reason why we should be denying to technical education anything less in status or in government support than that which is so apparent today in other forms of post-secondary education. Nor is there any justification for the differences applying to students in the technical and non-technical situations except in relation to curricula and perhaps basic entry requirements. In this regard the Kangan report has drawn attention to the fact that almost 70 per cent of men and over 80 per cent of women in the Australian work force have no formal educational qualifications for the trade or occupation in which they are engaged and that these people do not have anything approaching equality of access to vocational education with those who are preparing for a livelihood by attendance at a university or, in more recent times, at a college of advanced education. 
The report also notes that whilst technical and further education is an integral component of the national resources that make for technological development, for a skilled and mobile labour force or in fact for personal work satisfaction and economic growth, nevertheless it does not yet appear to rank officially as an integral part of the nation's economic system. The historic fact is that technical education, unlike other forms of post-secondary education, has always been separate from the mainstream of general education. Students desiring to enter a profession generally seek tertiary qualifications as a preparation for employment whereas just the opposite seems to apply in the case of students desiring to enter a trade or other sub-professional occupation where employment becomes a prerequisite to technical education. Beyond doubt there is a case for equality of status and financial assistance for technical education in the overall scheme of things. 
Let me just for a moment consider the defined area of influence of the proposed Technical and 
Further Education Commission. In a sense this involves a very wide ambit of a persons educational needs, related as it is to the all important factor of employment which more and more in the years to follow is likely to dictate priorities in government expenditures on education. I believe that it is most important that as governments expand educational opportunities they should not neglect- as is perhaps being done- the development of job opportunities. It is of little use for one to be fully qualified yet not find a job or a place of employment once one's education has ceased. I look forward to the extent to which this Bill develops the concept of community colleges in country centres and introduces student residences. As a country member of Parliament I believe that this is one area in our education system that should be greatly upgraded. There should be residences not only for students who live in the outback of our nation but also for teachers. Teachers' residences throughout some areas of my electorate in particular, I note, are very sadly lacking. If we are to attract not only married teachers but also single teachers to the rural areas it is absolutely vital that accommodation be one of the areas in which the Technical and Further Education Commission and other commissions should take a very real interest. 
It has been mentioned that at the present time about 500 000 young people are in institutions of education not assisted by the universities, the colleges of advanced education or the Schools Commission. I believe that this Bill will go a long way towards assisting those half a million people to have their needs met in the same way as students involved in other forms of education throughout the country have their needs met. Of course, the most important aspect of this Bill is that it will cater also for the needs of recurrent education. That is something for which the whole population of Australia is looking at a time when technological developments have made more leisure time available. People are now looking to their future needs, and their future needs will best be served if they can re-enter the education process and develop those skills that they had neither the opportunity to develop in the past nor the financial means of doing. I add my support for this Bill. I believe that it is completely necessary that the States do not reduce their commitment to technical education because the Australian Government has a larger involvement in it. It is vital that both the State and Federal Governments co-operate in the field of technical education as in any other form of education. On behalf of the Australian Country Party, I support this Bill, qualifying my support for it by the acceptance by the Government of the amendments. 
-The 2 Bills that we are debating, the Dried Fruits Levy Bill and the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, are both primarily concerned with conversion to metric measurement. In the Dried Fruits Levy Bill there are 2 proposed amendments. Firstly, the metric unit, the tonne, is substituted for the Imperial unit, the ton. The second amendment provides that the maximum rate of levy which can be applied will change from $ 1 per ton to $ 1 per tonne for dried vine fruits and from $5 per ton to $5 per tonne for dried tree fruits. This change, as has already been pointed out, has the effect of increasing by 1.6 per cent the maximum rate of the levy. While I believe the industry organisation at large has no complaint with this incidental increase, there is a disquiet amongst individual growers at the fact that this will necessarily increase their overall costs. 
Most of the funds raised by this levy are directed towards the financing of the Dried Fruits Research Committee, which is responsible to the Government for scientific, technical and economic research in connection with the production, processing or packing of dried fruits. It probably is true to say that no other industry in Australia has pursued research programs with such fervour and success. Continued improvements in quality and, as a result, world acceptance of the industry's products have been of considerable assistance to the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board in planning export market programs. The industry's products are required by buyers all over the world, and it is without doubt that an industry backed by sound research into processing, packing, marketing and promotional procedures will retain the buyers ' interest. 
Additional research into new end uses and byproducts is expected to increase considerably in the near future. These additional avenues of research should result in the development of products to increase the per capita consumption of dried fruits not only in Australia but also overseas. As the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  pointed out one aspect of the research that is being carried out, I think it is fair for me to mention some of the other research projects for 1973 and 1974. These include processing and quality control of dried vine fruits and the long term effects of summer pruning of sultanas. Of course, new products are being researched and investigated. One example is the research into prunes. The promotional activities initiated by the Australian Dried Fruits Association during last week include a $450,000 plan to boost sales. Media advertising is to be used in an endeavour to gain more dried fruit consumers and so to increase sales on a permanent basis. Surveys carried out by the Australian Dried Fruits Association have shown that there are 2 relatively untapped sections of consumers which are open for development. An adequate crop of sultanas this season will provide an opportunity to promote dried fruit products to school children aged between 8 and 14 years and housewives aged between 24 and 35 years. A large response to this campaign is anticipated by planned marketing research. 
The second Bill with which we are dealing, the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, also contains 2 variations to previous legislation. The first substitutes the kilogram for the lb on which the charge on exports of dried fruit is based. The other variation alters the charge from three-tenths of a cent for each lb to seven-tenths of a cent for each kilogram. Once again this increases- this time by 5.8 per cent- the maximum charge rate. This charge, as pointed out already in connection with the Dried Fruits Levy Bill, has the agreement of the industry and therefore receives my support. But once again I must mention that this must, in a fashion, add to the costs of the growers. Funds raised under the Dried Fruits Export Charges 
Act are used by the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board in the control, sale and distribution after export of Australian dried currants, sultanas and raisins. Last season the rate of the levy applicable amounted to $3.36 a ton and the total raised was $132,589. It must be emphasised at this point that the operations of the Control Board form no charge on the Consolidated Revenue of the Australian Government. 
The Australian dried fruits industry has proved that it has the organisation to manage competently the production and marketing of its product in a most efficient and economic manner. The Parliament Will be aware that a reference has been made to the Industries Assistance Commission. The Commission is inquiring into and reporting on the need or otherwise for a stabilisation plan for the dried vine fruits industry. The present plan was accepted by the previous Government in 1971 and it expires this year. I think it is fair to point out, in relation to the comments of the honourable member for Darling, that the scheme was introduced by the former Government and I believe that at the end of the previous 5-year plan a credit was returned to the growers. If any concern is being expressed throughout the dried fruits area about the future of our scheme, I think it must be concern that the scheme may be changed as a result of the change of government. 
This industry is small in comparison with others but it has made valuable contributions to Australia 's export earnings in the past. In terms of world production, Australia ranks fourth behind only the United States of America, Turkey and Greece. The industry is almost totally confined to a compact region of the Murray River. The 3 honourable members who have spoken on this BUI tonight probably represent well over 90 per cent of the dried fruits industry. This industry has been responsible for a stable and successful example of decentralisation. Much new development and diversification have taken place, and are taking place, in our region but the dependence of the region on the industry is of major import- ance. It is of importance that the Industries Assistance Commission take considerable account not only of the economic importance but also of the social effects of any report based purely on economies if applied to the total Aus.tralian situation. 
These 2 Bills give effect to a decision for metrification as it applies to this industry. The report by the LAC and further Government action relating to this valuable industry will determine the course the industry is to take in the future. We expect this report to be tabled about the middle of September. The value of the dried fruit crop, in terms of total Australian industry, is not great but in terms of importance to this region of Australia the effect of any increase or decrease in the viability of the industry is enormous. For instance, this year the crop is estimated to yield about 62 000 tons. Prices at the present time are quite attractive, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  The demand appears to be good. But costs have risen alarmingly up to and beyond 25 per cent over the past year. This can be attributed directly to Government policies. Perhaps no other rural industry in Australia is so susceptible to Government policies. 
Trade agreements originally developed are gradually disappearing. Currency fluctuations as manipulated by the Government have had a major effect upon the economies of the growers. The Bill dealing with export charges is of notable importance. The industry is dependent on export income for the present and future living standards of its producers. I will be looking to this Government to take many initiatives on behalf of my constituents, particularly in securing on a world basis international agreement for the stabilisation of marketing. Adjustment assistance by the Government is necessary when revaluations of the dollar occur. Steps should be taken to assist the industry with shipping difficulties such as when variations in freight rates are to be considered or negotiated. 
The dried fruits industry makes a valuable contribution to our national income. It provides employment opportunities for many thousands of rural and ancillary workers. It helps to maintain a reasonable standard of living in rural areas where grape crops are grown. The industry has been fully co-operative with the Government during recent investigations by the IAC. Large amounts of money have been spent by the ADFA on behalf of the growers in preparing detailed and professional submissions. However, the rural community is dismayed by policies that have been carried out by the Government, and the changes that have been effected in the structure and operations of agricultural production and marketing without prior reference to parties affected in their past decisions. I look to the Government's good intentions in this reference to the IAC to remove the apprehensions that so obviously exist in the dried fruits industry at the moment. As already mentioned, this Bill is a simple Bm dealing with the metrification of the industry. As such, the Opposition has no hesitation in giving support to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I move- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 

 -Mr Chairman 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What quantities of each variety of dried fruit were imported into Australia during the last 3 years. 
What quantities have been imported during the current year to 1 April 1975. 
-My question is to the Acting Treasurer. In answer to a question earlier this week, the Minister stated that Government support for the reserve price scheme for wool was a welfare payment to wool growers. Will the Minister say which other welfare schemes of the Government require repayment of the funds provided and have an interest rate of at least 1 1 per cent? 
-When I spoke in the recent debate on the' States Grants (Universities) Bill I welcomed the initiatives that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  had taken in this field, but, as is the case in most Government programs, the value of those initiatives is now being lost in a series of increasingly incoherent economic decisions. I believe it is most disappointing for all honourable members to realise that rising costs are nullifying the tremendous advances which have been made and which could be continued in the field of education. Actually this Bill only updates these adjustments for cost variations to the end of 1974. In general it does not allow for cost increases that have occurred since 1975. The actual variations incorporated in the Bill are based on the following improved indices prepared by the Universities Commission. First of all, there are the academic salaries. As recommended by  Mr Justice  Campbell in late 1974 these rises were retrospective to 1 6 October 1 974. They ranged from 16 per cent for professors to 25 per cent for lecturers and 34 per cent for tutors and demonstrators. 
The last non-national wage case rises in this area occurred in January 1973. Academic salaries make up about 45 per cent of the general recurrent grants for universities under this new legislation. Non-academic salaries and wages are calculated largely on the Australian Public Service indices. Non-salary recurrent cost indices are those which have been especially prepared by the Commission for its own purposes. The last two I have mentioned, non-academic salaries and non-salary recurrent costs, make up about 55 per cent of the total additional university general recurrent grants. Of course the fourth area of cost increase is in the Commission's own building costs. Grants for general university building projects have risen in the 1 974 and 1975 legislation by $24.2m since the original programs were specified. This amounts to an increase of 21 per cent since the commencement of the triennium. Compared with the automatic cost escalation of 6 per cent allowed in Schools Commission programs, built in inflationary factors in tertiary programs are very small. 
I do not wish to delay this legislation. It is an important piece of legislation. We see in this Bill an additional amount of $104m recommended simply because of the huge inflationary costs that have occurred, so I believe it would be fair to say that this Bill is about inflation. It tells the story of a government that is unable to manage what was once a strong economy. This Bill is evidence of the disastrous effects which the Government's mismanagement is having upon essential Government responsibilities, of which I believe education is the most important. This Bill shows also that the huge increases in Government spending are not being used to advantage but simply are only allowing to continue programs that were provided for by this Parliament at the commencement of the last triennium. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. In discussing the implications of the next Budget upon the rural sector, and in view of the importance of freight and transport costs to an effective decentralisation policy, will he consider establishing a fuel price equalisation scheme throughout Australia? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many submissions were received from schools under the Disadvantaged Schools Program. 
) How many have been approved to date. 
How many submissions have been received under the Special Grants (Innovations) Program. 
How many have been approved, and how many rejected to date. 
5 ) Are funds still available under this Program. 
If not, will those submissions already made, but not yet assessed, have to be updated and resubmitted to share in future budgetary allocations. 
-Tonight I wish to raise a serious problem that is being experienced by our winemakers and grape producers throughout Australia as a result of the Australian Government's insisting on collecting extra tax following the removal of a longstanding tax incentive contained in section 31A of the Income Tax Act. My colleagues the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  also have raised this matter on numerous occasions, and even today the viciousness of this tax and the disastrous liquidity problems being created by the collection of this tax were emphasised. 
The tax incentive was in the form of a special valuation being allowed on stock of maturing wine and was introduced by the former LiberalCountry Party Government. The incentive has encouraged the growth of the industry from a cottage stage to one making and marketing wines that are now respected throughout the world. The wine industry is responsible for the promotion of decentralisation in many regions of the nation. In my electorate of Mallee, in particular, the development of this industry is allowing a diversification of production which, if supported, will greatly assist income stabilisation for the grape grower. The wine industry has become a great industry. It is of significant value to our total economy and its viability is imperative for balanced development. The implications of this Labor Government's action will have drastic social effects if initiatives are not taken in the Budget to correct an ill-conceived proposal. The impact of the deferred tax resulting from the repeal of section 31A is now assessable. Studies have indicated that it will cost the industry between $28m and $36m. In fact, a study of 15 companies has revealed that the impact of this deferred tax liability, in addition to the normal taxation, will be between 60 per cent and 81 per cent of the predicted profit. This is of crippling magnitude when compared with the 45 per cent to 47% per cent tax paid by normal companies. 
The magnitude of this problem makes an extension of the time to pay inadequate for several reasons. Fristly cash flows from operations, possible capital raising and borrowings, would fall short of requirements by between $80m and $110m, of which an estimated $75m will be incurred as income tax. Secondly, this continued major set-back for a 5-year period will seriously distort the structure of the industry through liquidations, amalgamations and takeovers and the ability of some with financial resources to dominate the market. I can cite 3 examples of this. Firstly, proprietary companies facing difficulties raising borrowed funds which cannot be used to generate income will be increasingly limited in their ability to expand and will be forced ultimately to amalgamate or to sell out In addition, the Division 7 tax on suddenly emerging dividends from the transition period taxable income will absorb further company funds. Public listed companies face difficulties with sustaining dividend pay-out and the consequent drop in share market confidence will increase the difficulty in raising equity for borrowed funds. Some amalgamations or restructuring seem likely. Of course small family companies, firms and sole traders with limited credit lines face the greatest difficulties. Borrowings are based mainly on the security available and are not, as a rule, available for payment of income tax. The major effect is the crushing impact on proprietors' confidence and willingness to continue under such oppression. This will result in a large reduction in the number of family vintage wineries as they are presently known. 
This taxation concession was removed in such a way that the industry is faced with repaying in 5 years the benefits received over a period of 20 years. The Government must realise that the wine industry is unique. In what other industry or in what salary or wage earning capacities do taxes have to be paid before the receipt of income? But this is exactly what this Government is demanding in this case. To aggravate the position, the Government has introduced retrospectivity into the amended tax law. The circumstances within the industry have changed dramatically since the decision by the Government to remove this taxation incentive. For example, grape prices for the 1975 vintage have increased to the order of 40 per cent. This price increase has been necessary to give the grower a fair return for his labour and investment. In comparison to a 30 per cent rise in most cost structures throughout the industry this is not unreasonable. It must be recognised that these cost increases have to be recovered in an industry that already could be described as being only marginally profitable. If there is an attempt to recover sufficient extra cash from within the price structure for the additional tax, this will undoubtedly raise prices to prohibitive levels and have a substantial effect on demand. This vicious tax means that a source of cash has to be found and these considerable increases in wine prices must be expected. Should these prices meet with consumer resistance the outlook for the Australian wine industry and also for the grape growers is not a happy one. 
During the last vintage many grape growers throughout Australia received notices of delayed payments for 1975. Some wineries, most unwillingly, have had to discontinue long term purchasing arrangements with producers. Cuts in employment in wineries, in the vineyards and in the sales staff in many cases, are foreshadowed. In some instances they have already been carried out. The Government must appreciate that grape production will dramatically increase due to additional plantings in the late 1960s and early 1970s. A greatly increased production will clash with the extreme lack of liquidity. This position will be cumulative as the 5-year higher tax period continues. The impact of this will mean that our grape growers' ability to be paid will decrease. There must be an increase in the failure of wineries and there must be an increase in the takeover of our family owned enterprises. This is a disaster of the greatest magnitude. It has been the small family owned firms and companies that have given the Australian wine industry a distinctive character and recognition. No Australian Government must allow this situation to continue. It would be a national scandal and totally unforgivable. 
The Coombs report which recommended these changes in stock valuations was based on the false premise that there was a high degree of foreign ownership in the Australian wine and brandy industry. This was not so, and in fact the removal of these tax concessions is producing a marked decrease in Australian ownership. The Coombs report also assumed that there was a marked reduction in wine maturing times, which is also largely untrue. I should Uke to refer to a question by  Senator Laucke  in the Senate on 14 May which was answered by the Minister for Agriculture.  Senator Wriedt  answered: 
The Prime Minister has already advised the  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council that the Government is not prepared to accede to the Council's request that the amount of deferred taxation owing by wine makers which accumulated as a result of the previous concessional basis for valuing wine stocks be waived. The question as to whether any concession in this matter may be possible in other ways is still being considered. 
As regards the question of the brandy excise differential, the matter has been kept under close review by the Government and I expect that a decision will be taken on the subject in the pre-Budget deliberations. I understand that there is evidence of a significant decline in the level of imports of brandy in recent months. I should mention also that, apart from one or two localised problems which I understand have been resolved, there is no evidence of a surplus of grapes this season. 
As a member representing a large wine producing area and an area whose economic viability is closely linked to grapes, wine making and brandy production, I ask the Treasurer, whoever he may be within the next week, the Prime Minister, and in particular the Minister for Agriculture, to look at this industry in their Budget discussions, to assess carefully the submissions from the industry, the representations from myself and other Federal and State members, many of whom are from the Government benches. This is a long term decision and not something that can be looked at in isolation in the short term. I make this request tonight not with any suggestion of gaining political advantage or initiative but with the knowledge that the future of a viable Aus.tralian industry is at stake. 
-The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has given a brief run-down of the reasons that the Road Safety and Standards Authority facilities have been recommended. But I believe that it is worth pointing out why, in the first instance, this Parliament organised an investigation into this particular problem. It is worth putting into Hansard that in 1974 close to 4000 Australians lost their lives in road accidents, and in the 10 years up to and including 1973, 400 000 people were killed and 850 000 people were injured on Australian roads. The road toll reached a peak in 1970 when almost 4000 people were killed and 91 000 were injured. Fortunately this upward trend was reversed during 1971 and 1972 but further increases occurred in 1973 when 3679 people - 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and .Immigration give a categorical commitment that all applications approved under the Regional Employment Development scheme will be funded by the Government? I ask this question in the knowledge that many municipalities and organisations have outlaid resources and finance after receiving official acceptance of their applications from the Minister for Labor and Immigration and. that, of course, unemployment is dramatically increasing. 
-There is no need to delay the passage of these 2 pieces of legislation. As has been pointed out by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  who represents the shadow Minister for Education in this House, these Bills simply seek to bring into line a situation that has operated for some time. They refer primarily to the abolition of the payment of fees for tuition. The Opposition Parties have supported the Government's policy of assisting students at tertiary institutions by that means. I can only say that we wish these Bills a speedy passage through the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Treasurer. Is he aware that the rebate system as proposed, as compared with the old deduction system, works very strongly against a taxpayer who is on the averaging system but who has a low average? Will the Minister look at this anomaly which appears to attack the basic concept of averaging, that is, to assist in overcoming fluctuations in income? 
-The expenditure on Aboriginal affairs for 1975-76 is estimated at $192m. Of this amount $142m will be directly controlled by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In addition the Department administers payments to the States for housing, education, health, welfare and employment responsibilities. Expenditure on these projects is estimated at $40.8m. The remaining $50m of the total of the estimated $192m for Aboriginal expenditure by departments other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is the responsibility of the departments of Education, Housing and Construction, and Health.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a breakdown of this figure for payments to the States. 
-In this debate on the estimates for the Department of Education I wish to confine my remarks purely to a discussion of the Government's budgetary proposals as compared with the recommendations of the Schools Commission and the possible effects of the changes made. I wish also only to debate the possible effects of those changes and not to indulge in the political procrastination which has been occurring already between State and Federal politicians. The Schools Commission's financial recommendations for the 1976-78 triennium are difficult to compare usefully and in a clearcut fashion with the Government's estimates for the financial year 1975-76 for 2 major reasons: Firstly, the Commission's recommendations cover the 3 calendar years 1976 to 1978, while the Government's estimates are for the financial year 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1976. The Schools Commission recommended an outlay of $638m for 1976 while the Budget allocated about $5 10m in 1975-76 to educational programs funded by the Schools Commission. The second reason for the difficulty in making a useful comparison is that the financial year 1975-76 contains the last half of the 1973-75 triennium and the first half of the now deferred 1976-78 triennium. If one halves the 1976 Schools Commission recommendation of $63 8m and also the 1975-76 Budget allocation of $5 10m, it is seen that the planned reduction of expenditure in the first half of 1976 over the Schools Commission's recommended spending for half of 1976 is about $65m. This amount represents a decrease of 25 per cent. 
The overall capital and recurrent amounts appropriated, however, can be calculated as follows: recurrent expenditure, $325,474,000, an increase of 38.8 per cent over 1974; capital expenditure, $146,226,000, a drop of 26.7 per cent over the year 1974. The estimates as proposed do include provision for known cost increases but do not contain supplementary funds for prospective cost increases. It is fair to mention, however, that $70m has been included in the total education program for cost escalations. This Parliament should recognise, as should all Australians interested and concerned about the expansion and improvement of education facilities, that the inability of the Government to come to grips with inflation has directly restricted the real value of these allocations. In education this fact was reflected during the last financial year when additional legislation and appropriations of several million dollars were necessary simply to maintain continuing programs. 
The major implication of the reduction and slowing down in capital expenditure- a drop of 27 per cent as I have already mentioned- is that education planning will suffer a major setback which could take some time to recover. It is obvious that a real money increase will now not begin to occur in the first half of 1976, as about 25 per cent is owing to the deferral of the triennium to 1977. In addition, the Commission indicated that the real increases it was recommending for government school building in the 1977-78 triennium was about 22 per cent. These increases also will now be deferred. The 39 per cent increase in recurrent expenditure appears to indicate that the promise of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in a statement on 20 August that existing standards and staff-student ratios would be maintained may have a reasonable chance of being implemented. But this cannot be regarded as a significant achievement. It is simply a holding operation. Only time, of course, will tell. But very tight control over costs within the various institutions, particularly in wage and salary rises, will be necessary. If not, a real cutback of educational recurrent resources, particularly in staffstudent ratios, may occur and the fears expressed by many State education Ministers may not just be political opportunism, as several Government members have suggested. What can be validly argued is that the target date set for parity between government and non-government schools recurrent resources will be set back at least one year. 
The other major decision made in the Budget in relation to education can only be described as alarming. This is the rejection of the recommendations by all 4 commissions working in the field of education and the call for a total reappraisal of these commissions' recommendations. The implications of these decisions, of course, are many. For instance, do they imply that the work done has been a huge waste of money and time? It certainly appears this way. The Government could have simply deferred the programs but instead they appear to have been rejected. The Government has, in fact, asked for new recommendations to be produced. There is now no program for education after the end of this year and those concerned about educational opportunity and development are facing uncertainty at schools and within the system. It is in this area that I would be expecting strong representations to come to members of Parliament from teachers organistions and not just recommendations from teacher organisations that are concerned about their own employment opportunities and advancement. 
We should remember that education is primarily for those being educated. The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  earlier in the debate today made totally dishonest statements when referring to the National Country Party's attitude and interest in education. I believe that I have spoken on almost every education Bill that has been introduced into the Parliament since I have been a member of it and, I may say, agreed with most of the initiatives undertaken. I should also ask those 2 honourable members who were rather loose with the facts earlier this afternoon to recall the National Country Party's attitude to the formation of the Schools Commission. Nobody would ever be satisfied with the quality of education his children are to receive or do receive. But if either of those honourable members would like to come to my electorate, I will take them to some of the best technical school facilities that this nation can provide. 
I will show them secondary schools where local initiatives by parent groups and teachers are providing rural children with a component of technical tuition specifically orientated towards future employment in their own district and environment. I can show them a recently opened high school, the first of its kind ever built specifically in Australia for remote areas. But if they come to my electorate I will show them areas where the Government's decision will seriously restrict capital works programs during the next 12 months and will halt these school expansion and improvement programs. There is no doubt that this decision will have repercussions particularly in the primary education field where some very serious deficiencies are occurring. I do not oppose these estimates, but the effects of these cutbacks will restrict development and expansion and this should be recognised. 
I wish to direct a few remarks to the estimates for the Department of Social Security. That Department has direct outlays in the field of social security and welfare for this year estimated at some $4,772m. Direct outlays on social security and welfare in 1975-76 are equivalent to 21.8 per cent of the estimated total Budget outlay. That, of course makes our Department of Social Security one of the most important areas of government responsibility. Because of that huge responsibility to our genuine areas of welfare and because of the costs involved, it is most desirable that stringent procedures be developed that remove existing anomalies and also remove the abuses that are being perpetuated in the system. A nation with Australia's potential should not allow to develop throughout the community, and particularly amongst our young people, a hand out mentality where people believe that income can be obtained without work. I believe that only by close scrutiny can we ensure that the welfare areas are supported fully and adequately and can be broadened. 
There are one or two areas within the Department of Social Security to which I would like to direct specific attention. The first is that of the Aged Persons Homes and Hostels Act. I believe that this is the first time since that Act was introduced into the Parliament that it has been thrown into limbo in that the program is going to be suspended for 12 months. Organisations sponsoring appeals for geriatric wards for nursing units, for aged persons homes, for aged persons hostels throughout Australia today will lack the confidence that they should have to continue these programs. We all know that the applications that are being received at the present time cannot expect funding for at least 12 months. I believe that the Department of Social Security should look very seriously at making some commitment and some guarantee to these organisations so that they can borrow from outside the Department, carry on their programs and be guaranteed the funds when they become available. 
The same situation also exists in relation to the development and expansion of offices of the Department of Social Security throughout the nation. After many years of making representations in relation to Swan Hill, which is in my electorate, we were last year granted approval for the development of an office of the Department of Social Security. It was a much needed office because Department of Social Security services do not exist in that area within a distance of 240 miles. As a result the administration of social security benefits and payments did create anomalies and disadvantages for the people who live in that immediate radius. Of course, as a result of the cut backs in capital works programs announced in this Budget, the proposal to establish that office has now been abandoned. Once again I can only say to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table, that great consideration should be given to expanding these necessary resources and facilities within the rural areas. The same thing can also be said for the decentralising of these social security offices into other areas for the benefit of the people they would serve. 
For one moment I wish to direct my attention to the domiciliary nursing care benefit. When that benefit was introduced on 1 March 1973 it received the support of this Parliament. Of course, the intention of the enacting legislation was to encourage people to look after their aged relatives in their own homes instead of having to admit them to nursing home, hospitals or other institutions. The current benefit is $ 14 and it was not increased in the Budget. However, I make no criticism of that. What I do criticise is the fact that anomalies and inequalities have developed with respect to that benefit. There has been widespread criticism of the legislation and its application on a number of grounds. One of the grounds, for instance, is the problem faced by many people in rural areas. They are excluded from the benefit of nursing care simply because nursing care is not available. Relatives caring for invalids under 65 years of age do not qualify for the benefit under the conditions of eligibility. That is having anti-rehabilitative effects and is placing unnecessary demands on scarce nursing resources. 
To enable caring relatives to benefit from that legislation doctors and nurses must be available in remote areas. In places where there are no domiciliary nurses and which may well be without access to a doctor except in cases of emergency, it is absolutely essential that families in these remote areas, who are perhaps more likely to look after aged parents and other relatives at home, qualify for the benefit. But because of the non-availability of a visiting nursing service they are prevented from qualifying for the benefit. Thus problems already created by geographical factors are compounded by legislation which fails to cater for other than urban situations, and that, of course, results in assistance not reaching many of those people in need. 
I now wish to direct one or two comments to a situation in relation to which the National Country Party has been making many representations for many months. I refer to the fact that we believe that the unemployment benefit should be paid to many people who are self employed, particularly where sickness is involved or in cases of particular stress through lack of income over a short period of time. On 22 April I wrote to the then Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden.  He replied and said that while the criterion for eligibility was available to all people he had to admit that the conditions for benefit made it difficult for anyone self employed, such as primary producers or small business people to obtain any assistance under this program. We have to look at the conditions and the criteria to see the reasons. 
The calculation is based on a means test which takes into account income and assets. On the assets side the calculation uses a notable 10 per cent return on capital. I am quite sure that we all realise that nobody in small business or in primary production today can obtain anywhere near a 10 per cent return on his capital. This, of course, rules such a person out of any benefit that he may deserve. 
During the last flood along the Murray River many of my constituents were flooded out for some 18 months and as a result had to sell all their stock. In other words, they had to sell their means of obtaining an income. Many of them were living in caravan parks in nearby towns. Despite the fact that they were registered as unemployed, despite representations to Ministers, despite the fact that they had no income whatsoever for a period of some 18 months and even at the end of that time they had to borrow money to restock their properties, they were not entitled to any benefit through the social security system because of the criteria that existed. It is difficult to develop criteria whereby self-employed people can be entitled to receive unemployment benefits, but it can be done. It applies in New Zealand and also in many other countries. It can be done by a calculation based on the previous year's income with interim calculations based on the current year's income. If necessary adjustments can be made later, even after payments are made. I believe this request is quite justifiable. Even if a person does own property as an asset we should remember that the asset that the primary producer owns or the small businessman owns is not only his means of income for the rest of his life, and perhaps the life of his family, but it is also the means whereby this nation is able to provide benefit to other people. I believe that the criteria that exist within the social security system are an injustice and an inequity and I do hope that the Minister will look at this with a view to making some adjustment. 
May I just say in closing my remarks that the success of any social welfare program is dependent not on the Government but upon the ability of taxpayers to fund the necessary schemes. It is to be hoped that this Government does not cripple the economic potential of the nation to the immediate detriment of those in real need. 
I want to make a few comments about the decision of the Government to suspend the Regional Employment Development scheme, or the RED scheme as it is better known. When this scheme was started there were many areas within it with which naturally, of course, people on this side of the House disagreed. They were mainly areas of inefficiencies. We held the belief that State governments and people close to the public could administer an unemployment scheme more efficiently to the benefit of the unemployed. However, the scheme got under way and it served a vital purpose. Not only did it assist those people who were unemployed through no fault of their own but through the fault of the Government's economic policies and the economic situation in Australia, but it also assisted many organisations and local government throughout Australia to develop projects that were of benefit to the ratepayers as well. 
Following the introduction of the Budget the RED scheme was suspended. This has created many injustices. I believe that if such things occurred in our everyday civil life, or if such action were carried out by private enterprise, it would create a tremendous uproar and, in fact, would even be regarded as totally illegal. Schemes that were already approved and schemes on which many organisations and local municipalities had spent time and money in planning and making submissions to the Government were suspended. Many organisations had already spent a great amount of money on materials for approved schemes. But because they had not actually obtained their labour sources they found that approval was denied to their municipalities. 
Let us think of the injustices that would have occurred if the same sort of criteria had been applied to the National Employment and Training scheme. Imagine the situation if people who had started on a training course and who perhaps had attended such a course for one or 2 years were suddenly told that because of the economic situation the course would be suspended. I think an exact situation applies to the administration of the RED scheme and the decision to suspend it. I believe that all those projects that have been approved by the Government should be funded. They should be allowed to go ahead not only in the interests of the unemployed people but also in the interests of those organisations and those councils that, in good faith, made applications to the Government and had them granted. 
The worst feature of the decision to suspend the scheme is that it is not only a denial of approved applications but also a denial of those projects that have not yet been commenced. The fact is that many projects that had been commenced are now not being funded by the 
Government. Several municipalities in my electorate which commenced projects in good faith are now finding, because of the rise in costs and the rise in wages and materials, in particular, that these projects are costing many thousands of dollars more than the cost envisaged in the original application. Before the decision to suspend the scheme, this on cost was met by the Government. But since the suspension of the scheme these organisations have been advised that they will not be funded for additional cost increases that have occurred. Consequently councils, which applied to the Government in good faith for assistance under a government scheme, are now going to be put in a worse position financially than they were before they applied. 
That is right. I do not believe it is fair that an organisation, in making an application for a scheme to assist the Government in alleviating the unemployment situation in this country, should have to bear the brunt of additional costs for a scheme that it was only carrying out on behalf of the Australian Government and the Australian people. I have written many letters on this matter to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  pointing out individual schemes within my electorate. I am quite aware that almost every other honourable member has made representations on the same subject. I believe this Government has a right to look again at its decision. I believe it has every right to suspend the scheme if it believes it is inefficient or if it is unable to pay for it because it is beyond its means. But the Government has no right to approve projects, to allow municipalities to commence them, to allow additional costs to be incurred on the projects due to its economic mismanagement of this country, and then to expect these organisations and municipalities to pay for them. 
-In Victoria today there has been a strike by members of the Federated Cold Storage Union employed at dairy factories throughout the State. The stoppage is in support of union claims for increased wages made on Victorian product manufacturers. The effects of this stoppage upon the incomes of the State dairy farmers are disastrous. Conservative estimates are that one million gallons of whole milk valued at $500,000 was today poured down the drains throughout the State. The situation has obviously varied from factory to factory, depending on the capacity of the farm or factory storage and the attitude of employees at individual factories to the recommendations of their union. I personally am aware that the Kraft factory at Leitchville in my electorate has not been able to receive milk today, costing the suppliers $40,000 in income. 
Dairy producers cannot absorb these losses. Already they are stretched to their economic limits. They are having great difficulty operating in a climate of high production costs and living under the threat of a substantial price drop for their products. For instance, 12 months ago skim milk powder was bringing $400 per tonne on the export market. Today the price is $250. Twelve months ago on the home market skim milk powder was bringing $500. Today it is bringing only $400 per tonne. Also, over 10 000 tonnes of cheese has been imported into this country from various sources but primarily from the Continent. This is being dumped on the home market. The outcome of this is a 2c per lb butterfat drop to our producers. Last year over 3000 dairy farmers left the industry. If this trend continues and is compounded by anarchy by unions with no thought for the industry then this trend will accelerate. Within 4 years it is almost certain that Australia will of necessity be forced to import dairy products to meet our home demands. If this happens, of course, the consumer will be paying very much more for a product of a poorer quality. 
This dispute today is totally unnecessary and is typical of the organised industrial strife that is wrecking a stable economy and tearing down this nation's confidence and social structure. The union's claims went before an arbitrator last Wednesday and were denied. There was no way in which excessive claims could have been afforded by the industry or that the principles of wage indexation guidelines could have been adhered to if these increases had been granted. 
The Secretary of the Federated Cold Storage Union is  Mr Pat  Gallagher, the same  Mr Gallagher  who was appointed by  Senator Wriedt  to the Australian Dairy Corporation. Here we have a member of the dairy industry body doing everything possible to disrupt and destroy the viability of dairy farmers and manufacturers and ultimately the jobs of all those employees in the manufacturing side of this industry. It is also interesting to note that another unionist,  Mr Carr  of the Furniture Trade Employees Union, was foremost in the recent opposition to an approach by the dairy industry for a product price rise. 
I believe that  Senator Wriedt,  if he is concerned about bis responsibility in the administration of his portfolio, if he does intend to represent those following agricultural pursuits, should immediately investigate the action of  Mr Gallagher  in this strike and give a report to this Parliament. Dairy farmers throughout this nation cannot be expected to tolerate in the membership of their corporation a union representative who is intent upon effecting industrial strife that will affect the livelihood of dairy farmers and their families. 
There is one further point I wish to make on this issue. Should this strike continue either in part or on a State-wide basis, or should it only prove to be the beginning of periodic industrial action within the industry, I am concerned about the possibility of violence. Today my office in my electorate and my office here in Canberra have been inundated with calls from desperate dairy farmers concerned not just with a total loss of a day's income and work but also with the future prospects offered them in their industry. They are stretched to their financial capacity. Recent huge increases in water charges, in transport costs, in workers compensation and in power costs are creating additional pressures. Further deliberate union action cannot be tolerated. Milk cannot be stored. The regular and continuous manufacturing process is vital to cope with dairy produce and to ensure regular income receipts to producers. On this occasion the strike was only for 24 hours but the difficulties encountered were immense. Naturally, conditions varied from one area to another. Some factories were able to get the milk from the farms and store it during the 24 hours. We hope that when the strike stops at midnight tonight further deliveries will take place. But as I have mentioned, in other areas storage was not available and the milk had to be dumped. 
This Government must exert some form of control over the union's leaders who must show restraint. I am sure, by the attitude of most employees in the dairy processing and manufacturing industries today, that they wish to continue working. But the possibility of black bans on workers or on factories was a natural deterrent to employees worried about the increasing unemployment situation. Primary producers cannot be expected to stand by and watch while outside forces and influences destroy the viability of their industries, especially when a member of their own dairy corporation, a man wearing 2 hats, is the prime mover in the industrial problems threatening their industry. 
-by leave-Mr  Speaker,  I wish to add my support to your remarks and the remarks of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  in regard to the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Thailand, Japan and the Philippines. I do not want to enlarge on what has been said except to mention 2 specific points. The first is that I believe that the good will that has been created between Thailand and Australia by our very successful aid programs, particularly in road building and agricultural technology, should be a credit to both our country and theirs for the spirit of co-operation in which it is carried out. The cooperation of our 2 countries has established dry land agriculture on country which cannot be irrigated. This has resulted in improved agricultural techniques, increased farm income and improved land utilisation. The personnel of the Snowy Mountains Authority have assisted these agricultural programs by providing access to and from markets not previously available to communities in northern Thailand. These programs have greatly enhanced the standard of living and security of previously isolated and poverty stricken rural communities. 
The second point I wish to make is that our delegation was impressed by the convenience and facilities of the 2 modern Parliaments in Thailand and Japan which have been designed to cope with today's parliamentary responsibilities. May I also pay tribute to you,  Mr Speaker.  I believe that as our leader, you carried out your duties with great dignity and cordiality to all members of the delegation. I congratulate Australian embassy officials for their assistance and competence. I also wish to make mention of  Mr John  Stevenson of the Department of Foreign Affairs and  Mr Bernie  Wright, your secretary, who during the length of the delegation were of great benefit to and were great company for the delegation with regard to the various important matters we had to carry out. 
-The Tertiary Education Commission Bill seeks to establish the Tertiary Education Commission in place of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in his second reading speech gives some reasons for the amalgamation. They are primarily concerned with the growth that has occurred in tertiary education, the acceptance of teacher education within the advanced education program, the abolition of tuition fees and the Australian Government's responsibility regarding finance in relation to universities and colleges of advanced education. I do not believe that these are satisfactory reasons for the amalgamation of these 2 commissions. I believe that the 
Opposition Parties are entitled to query this amalgamation particularly in view of the obvious success of these 2 commissions on education's development and advancement over the many years. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  has assured us that this legislation before the Parliament does not remove current distinctions between universities and colleges of advanced education at either the financial or institutional level. 
The new Tertiary Education Commission is to have separate statutory councils for universities and colleges of advanced education. They will function in a similar fashion to the present commissions, but with support from a single secretariat. It is said that the amalgamation will allow over-all closer co-ordination and planning of all tertiary education in such matters as student numbers, recurrent and capital funding principles, resource allocation to both sectors, institutional and course development, and the provision of manpower. But there have been criticisms of this amalgamation. I believe that those criticisms are coming not just from the Opposition but also from people involved in the educational field. 
One of the criticisms is, of course, the failure of the Australian Government' to consult the universities or CAEs prior to making its decision on the amalgamation. The panel which reported to the Government in August 1975 invited submissions from tertiary institutions, but they were to advise only on arrangements for amalgamation rather than to decide on amalgamation itself. In this respect I think I should quote from an article in the  Age  of 31 May 1975 about a criticism put forward by the  Chairman  of the Australian Vice-Chancellors Commission, Professor D. P. Derham, that the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of the merger between the 2 Commissions was made without consulting the universities. Professor Derham said: 
All the implications of the decision cannot be assessed until the nature and structure of the new body are known and it appears that that will not be for some months yet. 
There also has been further criticism that the failure to maintain the existing commissions might make it impossible to preserve the excellence, international standing and academic autonomy of the universities, to the disadvantage of the entire educational system and the national interest. The applied education emphasis of the CAEs might also be reduced in closer co-ordinating relationships with the universities in which CAEuniversity differences at the national funding level were blurred. Certainly the addition of university type research activities, the lengthening of courses and the development of nonvocational liberal arts studies would greatly increase the cost of CAE education and might be resisted by governments of the future on those grounds. A criticism on this account appeared in an article in the  Age  of 2 1 August 1 974 in which the  Deputy  Vice-President of the Victorian Institute of Colleges,  Mr Parry,  said that a single authority for tertiary education would be more efficient than the present dual system. The article went on to say: 
It would also lead to rationalisation in the development of new courses, he said. Universities and advanced colleges tended to overlap in this field. 
But  Mr Parry  warned that the authority could threaten the future of advanced colleges as separate entities from universities. 
There was a risk that unless there were proper safeguards, the 80 advanced colleges in Australia 'would seek university status willy-nilly',  Mr Parry  said. 
One of the further criticisms that it is important to point out is that the new Commission will continue to fund 'courses' in the colleges of advanced education but 'institutions' in the university sector. However, the inclusion of all tertiary education in one co-ordinating organisation might encourage governments eventually to extend the course funding principles to universities as well as to colleges of advanced education. Such a move might then enable student numbers in particular disciplines to be more closely controlled by governments than would be provided by blanket funding of institutions, to the detriment of the academic autonomy of universities. 
The Opposition parties are concerned about this decision. It is obvious that it is another decision that has been taken by the Prime Minister without prior notice or consultation and that it is another example of the dictatorial nature of the Prime Minister causing harm, mainly through economic mismanagement, not only to the employment of Australian people and of businesses throughout Australia but also to our educational institutions. It is obvious that the panel's reference did not allow for opinion on the value of such a change but only how such a change could be adopted. 
I support and second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  It has four important clauses in it. I do not intend to read them, but I do think that they should be briefly noted. The first is that insufficient time was given to the Australian community to consider the implications of this change. The second is that the Bill does not acknowledge the disquiet held by members of the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. We believe that a national inquiry into tertiary education should have been established before any amalgamation was contemplated. Finally, the Bill considerably diminishes the role of the States in the structure of tertiary education and makes inadequate provision for the proposed Tertiary Education Commission to have proper consultation with the States and the State education advisory bodies. 
I recognise the importance of decentralisation as far as education is concerned and believe that the decentralisation of education leads to diversity and experimentation in approach. I believe that it is essential and in the best interests of this country as far as education advancement is concerned. I reject the approach that centralised control is the best method of education advancement in this country. For those reasons I support the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition parties. 
-Is the Minister for Transport able to give the House any information regarding the establishment of an Omega station in Australia? Has a decision been taken to build the station? If so, where? 
-All of us in this House appreciate many of the forthright, and some valid, comments made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  But it does seem disappointing that so many statesmen are now emerging in the Opposition after only 3 months in that place. It is a pity that some of them did not emerge in the last 3 years. On 27 February 1973 the then GovernorGeneral,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, announced the new Labor Government *s legislative program- a program that was developed in the knowledge of a sound economy and in the knowledge that the electorate, having obtained a high standard of living and affluence under 2 decades of LiberalCountry Party Government, was reflecting aspirations and expectations to meet new and emerging human and social values. The nation was not expecting a vicious attack on the whole structure of economic and social life. The nation then voted for a change in emphasis, not a complete change in direction and philosophy. I am sure that the electorate could not have foreseen that after only 3 years of Labor rule the sound economy on which effective change was possible could be so destroyed by socialist thinking, incompetence and inefficiency. The electorate knows it now. 
Never in the history of Australian politics has the electorate reacted so dramatically against any Party. Never has a political Party been so devastated in its parliamentary representation. The Australian Labor Party must now realise that the Australian people demand responsible government with the minimum of interference to people and to business. We were told in 1973 that urgent action would be taken to alleviate unemployment. The Australian Labor Party responded with the record of the worst unemployment ever- a situation that has devastated the confidence of thousands of our young people and created huge social and economic pressures. We were told in 1973 of positive programs to promote vigorous growth of competitive Australian industry. The Australian Labor Party responded with a massive attack on the profitability of manufacturing industry, small business and primary industry. Levels of assistance were removed. Irresponsible tariff decisions caused a shut-down of manufacturing industry particularly in the textile and footwear fields. Long established industries in rural towns bore the brunt of ignorance and incompetence. We were told in 1973 that steps would be taken to promote cooperation and reduce confrontation in industry. We saw the Australian Labor Party go out of government with a record of 100 per cent increase in industrial strife, contrasted with a comparable period under the coalition Government. We were told of reductions in interest rates for house buyers. We have seen interest rates raised so prohibitively that home ownership to many young people is today just a dream. We were told that only Whitlam could control inflation.  His  competence in this area is today self-evident. Many of the programs undertaken by the Australian Labor Party were given total support by the coalition Opposition. We supported education initiatives, advances in social welfare responsibilities, the increasing demands of our people in conservation and environmental matters. These are all of importance, and a reflection of an advanced and affluent society. But all these advances required a sound and growing economy. It was here that the Labor Party failed. Its failure produced not advances but recession. In the last Hayden Budget we saw deferments in education, in aged persons housing, defence service housing, capital works for social security and postal and telecommunication facilities. Cutbacks in basic public services resulted not in expansion but in denial of those services to many people. Telephone and postal services were reduced and became expensive. We saw an attack upon primary industry, mineral and farming enterprises unprecedented in its ferocity and ignorance. 
The Governor-General's Address at the opening of Parliament in 1976 was different. Of necessity, its major thrust had to be economic. The Australian people had given the present Government Parties a strong directive to bring under control the highest unemployment rate in 40 years and the worst inflation in our history. They gave a strong mandate to us to reverse the excessive intervention in the life of the nation. The Governor-General's Address was also different in that the Opposition members did not attend the opening of the Parliament to which they were elected. Of course, to abrogate the Opposition's main responsibility did not necessarily apply to the social activities associated with the opening. Already major initiatives have been taken to promote confidence in industry and in production, to give impetus to our unlimited resources of human potential and to respond to the individual ambitions of Australians. A reduction in interest rates and the provision of the investment allowance are very important in the context of an overall reduction in inflationary trends and creation of employment opportunity. 
Hand in hand with these positive policies have been cuts in excessive spendings and inefficiencies. Even though I have now been through 3 elections I have now become part of a government for the first time- a government that has the responsibility for taking Australia into, and developing policies for, the last quarter of the twentieth century. One does not have to be a clairvoyant to recognise the problems that go with these challenges. The greatest challenge for this Government is to make decisions that give equality of opportunity to all citizens wherever they live and to promote the conditions for balanced economic and stable expansion. The challenge for our people, whether rural or urban, will be to accept responsible decision-making with the long term intent, not just of a short term nature that might be politically palatable. 
There is an urgent need for positive policies to create a climate for growth in our manufacturing industries and to develop initiatives to meet the needs of small businesses. Our Government and our people must make up their minds as to whether they need manufacturing industry and the accompanying employment opportunities. If we do, of necessity industry and employment have to be protected. The cutting of the tariff, reduction of export incentives and monetary policies which handicapped local industries were all adopted by the previous Government with the result that industry has declined in Australia. Either manufacturers have moved out of business and into other investment fields or, worse, they have moved to other regions such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore where industry is not only sought after but is actively encouraged. There will be no growth, resulting in a further reduction in jobs, unless clear, long term policies are directed to this cause. 
It has been popular to attack free enterprise and to claim that inflation and excessive unemployment were the results of a capitalist society. I do not believe this to be so. More likely these things have been brought upon us by inefficient and wasteful socialist thinking and the huge growth in our government administration with at the same time, a drop in service and productivity. It is heartening to see that the major thrust of our new Government is in these areas. If expansion of industry is to be our aim our Government must give the incentives necessary. It must improve the public services of transport and communication and drastically reduce their cost. Money must be made available to industry in its developmental stage when it is needed most. Starvation of liquid funds has hampered our industrial progress, particularly in rural areas. If our aim is to be decentralisation, with all its advantages of labour stability and of the environment, let us forget about artificial support schemes and short term concessions. Balanced development will flourish naturally if operating and manufacturing costs are relatively identical throughout all regions of Australia. 
Small businesses are the backbone of this nation's economy. They employ 42 per cent of our work force. They provide the base of our cities and towns and yet in the past they have received little specific attention. Small businesses today are facing very severe problems. The previous Government set up a National Small Business Bureau to advise and guide small businessmen in administration and other basic elements of management. It was a start, but so much more needs to be done. The coalition parties have developed a comprehensive policy in this area. It is essential that every attempt be made to implement it rapidly. Too much of our legislation is oppressive towards small business. The Labor Government, in its efforts to impose controls on big business, has burdened the small businesses with crippling rules and regulations. Our taxation system must be and will be altered to take account of inflation. Many business profits today are only paper profits, yet real taxation is paid on them. The replacement of stock and equipment is difficult, with continually rising costs, compounded by high interest rates. This Government already has lowered this rate by one per cent but further drops are essential. The Labor Government raised tax rates on private companies to those paid by public companies despite the fact that rules relating to the distribution of profits for private companies were not altered. This resulted in private companies being taxed twice, with cumulative effects of company tax and personal tax on distributed profits. This anomaly has drastically hampered the accumulation of capital needed for expansion. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, as with most rural electorates my electorate of Mallee is largely dependent upon primary production. While we have a range of small manufacturing industries and the natural climate and environment have attracted a significant tourist income, the present and future viability of north west Victoria fluctuates continually with the fortunes of farm production in many diverse rural industries. I am greatly concerned at the ignorance and the misunderstanding that exists in this Parliament and throughout large sections of our community about the difficulties encountered by this politically weak section. Two facts should always be considered. Firstly, 7 per cent of the nation's people are employed in rural production, yet they produce in excess of 50 per cent of the nation's wealth. This does not entitle them to special recognition but at least they should have equality of government attention. Secondly, primary industry is confronted by the dilemma that the bulk of production is sold upon low priced export markets which take no regard to the internal cost structure by which these industries and their inputs are governed. 
Perhaps no other industry in Australia today is confronted with these problems in such magnitude as is the Australian dairy industry. I would like briefly to refer to some discussion included in the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the dairy industry. The report stated: 
Pressures on farm and factory costs are generated almost entirely by economic forces outside the dairy industry. Since 1960 these have been the forces of economic growth and inflation. Economic growth is reflected in rising costs of labour and services. Inflation does not always have its origins outside of the rural sector. There have been times when high export prices for agricultural products have contributed to inflation in Australia, but the dairy industry has not contributed significantly to inflation of either the demand-pull or cost-push types. 
Pressures on farm and factory returns are generated in part by economic forces outside the dairy industry .. . Thus, the resultant downward pressure on the value of returns from export sales of dairy products has been beyond the control of the dairy industry. It is virtually impossible to increase the total revenue from sales of dairy products in Australia as rapidly as general levels of income have been increasing. And the international structure of prices at which dairy products are traded is largely beyond the control of the dairy industry, being determined by levels of production and stocks in North America and Western Europe and the trade and protection policies of these producers and of Australia's principal trading partners. 
Further on the report states: 
Despite improved efficiency - 
Improved efficiency within the dairy industry, as with other primary industries throughout Australia- there is still a significant minority of dairy farmers - 
A significant number- who have incomes which are not adequate by the standards of the rest of the community. For example, in the period 197 1-72 to 1 973-74, 34per cent of all dairy farms (including those supplying the fluid milk sector) were assessed by the BAE 
That is the Bureau of Agricultural Economics- to have net farm incomes below $4,000. 
That is $4,000 a year. The report continued: 
This proportion was 44 per cent in the manufacturing sector. The income position of farmers can be expected to have worsened since 1973-74 because of sharp rises in wages and costs of other inputs. 
There is no doubt that the current high rate of internal inflation is a general cause of concern, but it is of special concern to the dairy industry, which is more labour-intensive than many other export-oriented industries. The report states: 
Prices on the internal market can be raised, and this has been the industry's main defence in the situation - 
That is the present situation-  but export prices are independently determined and cannot be raised in this manner. Nor can internal prices be raised more than, at the most, to keep rough parity with rises in the general cost of living. Under these conditions it is not possible for prices received by dairy farmers, and in particular by those supplying milk for the production of manufactured dairy products (a large proportion of which are exported), to keep pace with the recent rapid increases in wages and the costs of other inputs. These costs are for the most pan determined outside the rural sector of the economy. Nor can productivity increases be expected to compensate fully. 
If inflation continues to be higher in Australia than in many overseas countries and export prices remain low, the numbers of farmers with low net farm income will certainly increase. It would be very difficult for many dairy farmers to make the adjustments which would enable them to maintain their real level of income. 
There is no doubt, of course, that the long term solution to the problem of inflation is not to be found in measures designed solely for the dairy industry. It requires policies specifically directed at controlling inflation. There is no doubt that vast changes are going to be needed within the dairy industry. Producers have a direct responsibility to see that they promote stable marketing arrangements, particularly within the manufacturing sector. They must not allow intrastate or interstate influences to affect the successful outcome of a scheme designed for flexibility and long term benefit. Producers must ensure that there is adequate consultation between farm and factory sections and that the specific views of the industry in each State are received. There in no time left for the industry to be divided because if it is divided I am sure that it will be the producer who will be left captive to the other powerful industry forces. 
I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your appointment to that high office. I ask you to pass on to  Mr Speaker  and to the other  Deputy  Speakers my congratulations. I believe that there is a very great need in this nation for our governments and, more importantly, the majority of consumer oriented electors to recognise that this nation depends and will depend in future very heavily upon the wealth generated by primary industry. Agriculture is a prestigious occupation. It must remain so and it must be recognised as such if this nation is to prosper during the next decade. 
I wish to raise tonight a matter that is of very grave concern to most people throughout rural Australia, namely, the gradual deterioration of basic rural services. I believe that it is a sad reflection on many of our governments that it is many decades ago now that we saw the expansion to most of our rural areas of all our important public facilities such as railways and water and power supplies; yet today, at a time when we have all the mental power and scientific knowledge available to us, we are seeing so many of these basic and essential services either removed or gradually reduced in their effect upon our communities. 
I wish to raise one specific issue to emphasise this particular difficulty. In my electorate there is a branch line of some 50 miles from the town of Dimboola to Yaapeet. This banch line supplies the Victorian Railways Department with well in excess of $ 1 m of freight income each year. Some $641,000 of this is from wheat and the rest is from other grains and superphosphate cartage. Yet at the present time there are proposals to shut down three of the major stations, even though the line was completely renewed just last year. One of those stations is Jeparit, which we all recognise as the birthplace of a very famous Liberal Prime Minister. It is also proposed to close down the station at Rainbow and the goods section at Dimboola. The Victorian Railways Department intends to cart from the area only profit-producing freight and not to return to that area the goods that are so necessary if the area is to survive. I believe that there is no justification at all for the Railways Department to operate its affairs in this manner. Railways must be regarded as an essential instrument of national development and as such must be operated in this way. If this proposal goes ahead it will mean that the businesses of individuals in my area will suffer a serious set-back. It is not only a matter of service but also a matter of employment opportunities. There are some 10 to 15 families along this 50-mile section of railway line who will have to either move or go into other employment. Of course, their future is not very bright in view of the present employment opportunities in rural areas. 
We have seen many governments over many years attempt to decentralise this nation in one way or another. Unfortunately, most attempts by artificial stimulation through governments have been unsuccessful. We have seen this in the last few years in particular, where decisions by one government have been completely reversed and the effects of those decisions have been changed by new governments and new policy initiatives. Of course, the across the board tariff decision does not need any explanation; nor does the effect that decision has had upon many of our decentralised industries. If decentralisation is to work I am quite sure that it will do so by bringing to rural communities, provincial cities and towns throughout Australia equality in public services, both in standards of service and in cost. If the prosperity of rural Australia is to continue- for the sake of Australia as a nation I am sure it must- it is absolutely essential that our governments of all calibres and all natures look at the deterioration in our public services. 
I have mentioned the railways. In the 2 minutes left to. me I want to mention the effect that a change in policy has had upon our telecommunications and postal facilities. I draw attention to the enormous cost that some of our rural people are being asked to pay simply for the facility of a telephone. Scores of constituents in my electorate are being asked to pay anything from $500 to $3,500 for a telephone connection. I believe that while these sorts of conditions exist this country cannot expect to see decentralisation advance on any scale. I am particularly concerned at the fact that without suitable transport and communication facilities the area about which I am speaking will be seriously affected not only in terms of productivity and its economic value to this nation but also in terms of the huge social problems which will be created and which will require the expenditure of much larger amounts of" money for the Government to correct them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 10.59 p.m. TREATIES 
The following papers were deemed to have been presented on 3 March 1976, by command of His Excellency the Governor-General: 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister recently announced road grants of $64m to State governments. It is my understanding that these grants were to assist local government to maintain employment and to meet urgent road needs. Can the Minister advise me whether these conditions have been met and whether there are apparent inequalities in allocations to municipalities with similar difficulties? 

 -Mr Speaker, it is a great pleasure to follow the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  because he is the first member on the Opposition side of the House that I have heard speak on any agriculture Bills that we have had over the last 4 weeks with any understanding of the effect of these Bills on the industry and of the importance of these Bills to rural communities. He made one very true statement when he said that when the members change sides of the House they change their argument also. I think Labor members will do well to recognise that they were in Government for the past 3 years; we have been in this Parliament as a Government for only the last 4 weeks and already we have initiated several Bills that are going to provide great benefit to rural people. Labor should remember that it removed $600m worth of former assistance to people in rural communities during its term in office. I think it is only a great show of crocodile tears for Labor members to stand in this place today and give some sort of support to the passing of these Bills. 
This Bill that we are discussing extends the dried fruit stabilisation scheme to take in the 1976 crop. I think we would do well to remember that the 1976 crop is already produced. It is almost entirely on the racks and ready for packing and sale. It worries me that in discussions on these Bills there appears to be a tremendous amount of misunderstanding and a lack of recognition not only of the different problems faced by rural producers, and primary producers in particular, but also of the problems confronting any government in providing support to these industries. Surely the fact that a business is called grazing, farming or horticulture does not mean that people engaged in these businesses are different from other types of human beings in the nation. They- perhaps I should say we- are only different because they can be directly affected by a bounty or by the cruelty and savagery of nature. Some academics and particularly members of the Labor Party have influenced the thinking of a new generation of young people in this nation as to how a farmer acts or thinks. With the absence of assistance from the media providing a balanced discussion on rural matters, they have built up a complete and false picture of primary production in particular. 
Two previous stabilisation schemes have been developed for the dried fruit industry. There were schemes in 1964 and 1968, and a further plan was developed in 1971 following negotiations with the industry to cover the 5 crops commencing with that harvest in 1971. The scheme then provided for the establishment of an annual base price for each drying grape, calculated each season according to movements in production costs which are assessed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. As has already been pointed out, limitations are placed on Australian Government contributions, the maximum payment per tonne being $23. This is reduced in proportion to the excess of production over specified levels. As pointed out the scheme is linked to the industry's operating system of equalising returns for all participating growers and packers from the sale of a particular season's fruit. Equalised returns are compared with assessed production costs as one step in determining whether payments into or from varietal stabilisation funds are called for. The stated object of the scheme is to maintain viable returns to producers at stable levels. However, as the honourable member for Darling has pointed out, limits built into the scheme have minimised its effects. Because the scheme operates only on prices, its effectiveness as an income stabilisation measure is limited because of the importance of variations in production as a destabilising force on growers' incomes. 
The Opposition spokesman on agriculture, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  has pointed out the Government contributions that have occurred over the years in relation to this scheme. Net Government contributions of $400,000 and $lm were paid in respect of the first 2 crops covered by the scheme. In 1973 and 1974 the industry experienced unprecedented increases in export prices which resulted in returns exceeding support prices in those years. However growers were not required to contribute to the scheme because the minimum quantities set by the scheme were not achieved. Despite record prices for dried vine fruit, growers' incomes have not increased in recent years. A return to low export prices in 1975 and 1976 combined with continued increases in growing, packing and marketing costs is expected to lead to a decline in incomes. The present scheme has had little effect on either the level or stability of returns to growers to date. However the prospects for improvement in world dried vine fruit prices are not good and production costs are expected to show a significant increase in 1 976. 
The continuation of the scheme is likely to result in a Government contribution of $ 1.4m in respect of sultanas in 1976. This assistance for growers of sultanas could be significant as their dependence on returns for dried vine fruit will be increased because wineries have reduced their grape intake in 1976. Wineries have already run down wine stocks, and purchases of smaller quantities of grapes in 1976 have occurred. The decision to do this is another result of the Labor Government's removal of section 31A of the Income Tax Assessment Act and it has created a tremendous problem within the wine growing industry- a problem that is unique in that it does not occur in other rural industries. 
-That is quite right. As the honourable member for Murray has said, there was a tremendous amount of misunderstanding and ignorance on the part of the previous Government as to the effects of some of the decisions taken by it over the last 3 years. The Australian Dried Fruits Association has requested that the maximum level of government contribution be increased from $23 per tonne to $33 per tonne. I think that the Association has a very good case in suggesting this $10 per tonne increase, on two grounds- firstly, because the cost of production is now largely fictional and, secondly, because the level of assistance of $23 per tonne, which was realistic in 1971 when it was granted, is unrealistic against the heavily inflated costs of the 1976 season. 
The cost of production on which the stabilisation plan was based is in 2 sections- cash costs and constant costs. The cash costs are indexed forward each year according to the actual movements of the particular items and have moved from $153 per tonne in 1971 to $283 per tonne in 1975. The so-called constant costs have remained unchanged at $119. I shall give the components of the constant costs. This matter has already been referred to by the honourable member for Darling, but I would like to promote a different aspect in the discussion on it than he did. The honourable member has mentioned the owner-operator's allowance as being assessed at $62.15 without any change, depreciation at $36 and interest on farm capital at $21. As I have already mentioned, this brings the assessment per tonne to $119. These costs have remained unchanged for the full period of this plan. In the same period, on the figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, labour costs have increased by 87.6 per cent, farm plant costs have increased by 57 per cent and farm capital has increased by 83 per cent. 
If those costs also had been subject to indexation the constant cost factor would have increased to $211 per tonne and would have given an overall cost of production of $494 per tonne. Acceptance of the indexation would not have increased the Government's liability; it would have reduced the price level at which government assistance became applicable. Because these constant costs are not indexed the increase in the total cost of production- again I stress that this is totally unrealistic- has been only 47.6 per cent. In the same period the minimum adult wage index has increased by 90.8 per cent and the average male weekly earnings have increased by 73.8 per cent. These increases have further disadvantaged the dried fruit growers in relation to the rest of the community. The assistance of $23 per tonne on present pack indications could mean a payout to growers of up to $1.4m, which would be a welcome injection into the industry; but on an individual basis it would do very little to assist the cash position of growers. 
This will be the eleventh year of stabilisation in the dried fruit industry. In the 10 years in which the plan has operated the industry has earned over $176m in export income. The total government assistance to date is $1.3m. Even with the estimated $1.4m assistance for the 1976 season, it seems a small price to pay for the value of these export earnings. Of course we all recognise, as the honourable member for Darling has done, that there is more to a dried fruit industry or any rural industry than just the value of export earnings. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  in an earlier speech on the States Grants (Fruit Canneries) Bill suggested diversification. The people in the River Murray area of my electorate have really tried to diversify; they have tried to help themselves. They diversified into wine growing, only to see the Labor Government promote difficulties in that area by removing a very necessary valuation system. They have diversified into market gardening. They have diversified into olives only to see the imports into this country increase to such an extent that they are threatening this industry. I think we all should take cognisance of the fact that things in rural areas are not good. Professor Henderson has indicated in his report on poverty that the amount of poverty in rural areas is far in excess of poverty in urban areas. The situation is that 14.4 per cent of all people in rural areas are regarded as being below the poverty level and there is another 10.8 per cent only within the category of 20 per cent above the poverty level. 
Farm industries have provided in Australia the base for development. They have provided the base of decentralisation and complementary to this I believe all future prospects of decentralisation will either work or fail according to the strength of this base. It is going to take a great deal of understanding by a large urbanised and consumer orientated population to recognise the importance of primary industry in the future. Unless employment in primary industry is regarded as a prestigious occupation I am quite sure that not only will the incomes, the economies and the social aspects of life in rural areas be affected but there will be a very disastrous effect upon the life of this nation over the next 2 decades. 
I should like to refer to reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. When the IAC legislation was introduced into the House I was one who voted against it. I did not believe that the operation of the IAC would meet the reasons for its introduction, that is, to establish what assistance and what changes could be made within the whole area of various industries and businesses in this nation. I think that my judgment at that time has been borne out in what has actually happened. I believe we have seen the Industries Assistance Commission used to delay assistance to industries. Despite the good work by all of the people on the Commission, its reports are sometimes out of date by the time they are produced and I do not believe that the Commission looks at rural industries in total terms. We must realise that industries are not just economic entities. They have social consequences and social values, and decisions taken will have long term effects on many communities that cannot be calculated just in economic terms. 
We all recognise that the main problems that are confronting all industries in Australia today, as well as the dried fruit industry, are not problems that have been developed by the rural producers themselves. Almost all of their problems have been totally out of their control. In Victoria, for instance, we have had water rate increases in the last 3 years of 78 per cent- well above the rate of inflation. As the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has said, we have had huge increases in premiums for workers compensation policies and the cost of labour has doubled within the last 3-year period. It surprises me that industries today are regarded as being efficient depending on whether they can cope with particular economic circumstances or particular production costs. It surprises me to find that an industry regarded as efficient in, say, 1972 is now- because the price for a product has not improved and production costs have gone upconsidered as being inefficient in a report brought down by a government or any other organisation. It is a ridiculous situation and one that I believe we should all recognise. Unfortunately many of the reports have nothing to do with the producer's efficiency because many of the factors discussed in them and used to point out the instability or the inefficient methods of that industry are simply out of the control of the producers. 
The Government accepts the interim report of the Commission that this stabilisation support should continue. I have pointed out that I believe it is deficient in many respects but it is a useful bridge to the development of different policies which should apply and be the result of Government consideration when the Commission's final report on the dried fruit industry is brought down. The dried fruit industry is a labour intensive and export orientated one. In my electorate, particularly along the Sunraysia area of the Murray Valley this year, it has been extremely difficult to obtain labour. This has been because of several factors. One has been the introduction of the new income tax rebate system. The direct payment that it has become necessary for pickers to pay of 35c in the dollar if they are employed in a second job has greatly disadvantaged the employment of local people in the industry. I know this is outside the control of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and outside the control of the industry itself, but I believe the Government will have to look to the income tax rebate system and take cognizance of some of the anomalies that exist in it and how they are affecting the obtaining of employment in some of our rural areas. 
Unfortunately for those unemployed, but fortunately for the fruit-growing areas of Australia this year, the huge unemployed workforce has benefited the industry. I must commend the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service who have worked very diligently in getting some of our unemployed people into the workforce. In the Mildura employment region some 1400 people were unemployed at the end of January but today, thanks to the work of the Commonwealth Employment Service officers and the desire of these people to get into the workforce, this figure is now down to one hundred and seventy. There has been criticism throughout some of my areas of the fact that unemployed people have not been used to the extent that they should have been, but I believe that figures point out that, through the work of our employment service and the desire of local people to work, the unemployment rolls have been greatly reduced and this has been of great benefit to the industry during this picking season. 
It is the Government's intention that this process of adjustment should be orderly. I hope that the Industries Assistance Commission's report is brought down soon and that the measures that are undertaken as a result of that report are not accompanied by any unnecessary individual hardship. The honourable member for Angas and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr 
Fitzpatrick) mentioned the fact that during this year imports of dried fruit have entered this country mainly from Turkey. I think in closing my remarks I should say that governments and people in this country who make decisions on primary industry policy matters have to make up their minds whether they wish to have primary industry in this country. If they do, I believe they will have to continue to take measures to protect those industries. When dried fruit can be imported into Australia and sold for up to $100 per tonne less than locally produced fruit, I think this is a good example of the action that must be taken. If governments do not want industry in this country, if governments do not want primary industries that have proved to be so successful as decentralisational measures, governments should say so, and honourable members should not stand in this House- particularly some members on the other side of the House- and condemn assistance measures that are promoted by the present Government. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister will be aware of representations from honourable members who are concerned about the cost and quality, and often lack, of service by the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission to rural Australia. This concern relates to the cost of telephone connections and rentals, private boxes and private mail bags and other inequalities, such as the extreme cost of telephone charges to the nearest medical and business centres.  Mr Minister,  as you have the responsibility for the scale of postal and - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to articles in the  Canberra Times  of 24, 25 and 26 February and 5 March, 1976 and the ANZAAS Journal  Search  of March 1976 which make serious allegations about actions by the Department of Science and about the administration of that Department. 
If so, is there any substance to the various allegations made, for example, that the Department (a) has sought to curb the role and effectiveness of the interim Australian Science and Technology Council, (b) has failed to tender adequate or timely advice on matters of major importance and (c) is poorly administered, and rigidly centralised, and that the flow of advice to the Minister from specialist senior officers is obstructed by the Central Office of the Department. 
If there is substance to any of the various allegations, what actions does the Minister propose to take. 
-At first glance, this amendment must be worthy of consideration. I am quite sure that movements in this direction within government and non-government systems are important to enable school communities to develop greater commitment to education through more extensive control of their own affairs. But I put it to the Opposition that nothing in this Bill denies State governments the ability to do that now, or denies the ability of schools to spend through their approved bodies. I believe that many State governments are moving in that direction. In particular, the Victorian Government is moving in that direction, and we are aware of substantial movements in that area. This amendment seeks to direct State governments, and I think it would only compound the duplications and the inefficiencies that are obvious at present. It has been pointed out already that in some instances we have electronic equipment when pencils are needed and carpets when toilets are needed. I think the involvement of school communities in the administration and management of their education facilities is proceeding very favourably. There is no reason why  this amendment should be accepted. It will not add anything to the continuation and development of this process. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Press reports indicate that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has instructed its solicitors to issue a High Court writ against the 
Commonwealth concerning chemists ' remuneration for dispensing pharmaceutical benefits. Can the Minister provide to the House the terms of the Government's offer? 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of the popularity of the television program  Bellbird  and the opportunity its production offers to Australian performers and producers. Can the Minister advise the House of any proposals by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to change the format of the series from four a week 15-minute programs to a once weekly hour long program? If that is so, are these changes likely to result in inferior viewing times for country people, accompanied by a loss in ratings and the eventual curtailment of the program? 
I rise to support the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, the Superannuation Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill which are being debated together. I wish specifically to refer to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1976. This Bill contains several major proposals. Some are new initiatives by the Government to confirm in legislation promises made by the Liberal and National Country Parties during the election campaign. Other measures are to correct serious inequalities forced upon private business by the previous Labor Government. These measures are part of the Government's program to give incentives to industry to enable it to invest and to modernise its productive capacity, which will have the effect of developing job opportunities. 
It should be remembered that during the previous 3 years of Labor Administration the destructive attack upon small business, private and public companies and primary producers had destroyed confidence in the productive sector which can be emphasised by the following figures. In the years 1972-73 to 1974-75 the share of private investment, excluding dwellings, as part of our gross domestic product, was only 10.7 per cent. These figures are the lowest we have had in Australia for the past 20 years. The disastrously high unemployment statistics, particularly the figures relating to young school leavers and people wishing to enter the work force for the first time can be directly attributed to the Labor Government's attack upon business. High inflation and totally unsympathetic Labor policies removed the incentive and the ability to employ or to expand. If a growing economy is to be achieved inflation must be controlled to lift business and consumer confidence and the high level of savings that has built up must be spent. Opposition members have spent many hours in this new Parliament condemning new initiatives undertaken by the coalition Government to boost the private sector. It must be remembered that this is the sector that provides employment for almost 75 per cent of the work force, and particularly in rural areas, and is responsible for the productive base on which real wealth can be achieved. I make no apologies for our efforts in this area. 
Clause 10 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill is to provide through the income tax system for an investment allowance for capital expenditure made by a taxpayer on or after 1 January 1976. Initially, a rate of 40 per cent from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1978 will apply in calculating this deduction. In the second phase of the scheme the deduction will be at a 20 per cent rate, running until 30 June 1983. The legislation making this allowance available up to 1983 is by intention a positive Government commitment over several years in order to provide security of planning and development. It will apply over a wide range of industry- manufacturing and primary- and includes the tourist industry. It will be available for plant acquired under leasing arrangements as well as for plant that is bought outright or under hire purchase agreement. 
The investment allowance is to be a special income tax. deduction representing the prescribed percentage of capital expenditure, including installation expenses, of acquiring or constructing eligible property. Generally speaking, the investment allowance will apply only to new property that is depreciable for income tax purposes. The allowance will be deductible in addition to the deductions that, under the depreciation provisions, are allowable for the full cost of the property. The allowance will be available for capital expenditure. The special deduction will be allowable in calculating the assessable income of the taxpayer for the year of income in which the eligible property is first used or installed ready for use. It is a condition of the eligibility for deduction that the property be used solely in Australia and only for the production of assessable income by the taxpayer concerned. 
Individual items of property costing $500 or less will not qualify for the allowance. A full investment allowance will, however, be available for an item of eligible plant costing $976 or more. For an item of eligible plant costing between $500 and $976, the allowance will, in its first 40 per cent phase, be shaded in at the rate of 2 per cent of the cost price for each $25 or part thereof of the excess of cost over $500. During the second 20 per cent phase the corresponding shading in rate will be one per cent of the cost price for each $25 or part thereof by which the cost exceeds $500. The Government offers this new allowance as a taxation concession to promote and to encourage investment and production. Already signs are evident of its effect upon the economy, with a significant rise in both business and consumer confidence. 
Another important clause in the Bill relates to our decision not to proceed with the collection of the third instalment of company tax in respect of 1974- 75 income that would otherwise have been due for payment in February 1976 or the collection of the 3 instalments of company tax that would otherwise have been payable in respect of 1975- 76 income during the 1976-77 financial year. This change will remove the additional cost placed upon companies by the former Government when it introduced quarterly tax instalments. This measure was unnecessary and was introduced only to meet the excessive and inefficient spending of a government unable to manage the economy. 
I return now to the provisions in the Bill that relate to the valuation of trading stocks of wine makers. Commencing with the 1973-74 season, manufacturers of wine and brandy have been required to bring into account for income tax purposes the closing values of trading stocks according to one of the 3 bases available to taxpayers generally. This was the result of a measure introduced by the Labor Government with no understanding of this valuable Australian industry. The Labor Party did not, and still does not, understand the uniqueness of the wine industry and the special problems and stages that exist in wine production. This action did malicious damage to the wine industry and has placed the future viability of wine makers and the welfare of many producers at risk. 
The Labor Government did, however, after intense pressure from the industry and many members on both sides of the House from rural areas and members from wine making electorates, agree to a period of 5 years for paying of deferred tax. This has proved however to be insufficient time. Since our election in December there has been close consultation with industry representatives. As a result this Bill proposes to give producers a more extended period- up to 8 years- in which to pay deferred tax. There is no doubt that this decision will ease liquidity problems. However, following these changes to the Income Tax Assessment Act it became obvious to many of us that even with this major advance many family owned wine making companies and some private and public wine making companies would still be in an extremely tight liquidity situation. The effects in the coming seasons upon grape producers as a result of grape intake restrictions cannot be overlooked. 
I give credit to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for heeding the further representations from honourable members and the industry and for agreeing to the further specific changes to be made to the income tax law to ease the transitional arrangements for the wine industry. I think it should be mentioned that when the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  spoke first in this debate yesterday evening he forgot to mention these important new initiatives that have been undertaken by our Government to assist the wine industry. They refer to deferred tax payable in any transitional year under the proposed extension. If it still exceeds 10 per cent of the true taxable income of that year, the excess above 10 per cent will be deferred further and the taxpayer will be allowed a further extension of time beyond 8 years, if necessary to stay below the 10 per cent ceiling in later years, to pay off the deferred tax. 
The Division 7 tax arrangements for private companies will be altered as follows in respect of income from the production of wine and brandy. Firstly, the distribution requirements under Division 7 will be altered to remove any effect which would otherwise result from bringing to account income on which tax was deferred in the past. 'Sufficient distributions' then will not be increased above the level that would be required if there were no adjustment to income in respect of previous years' deferred taxes. Secondly, distributable income for Division 7 purposes will be reckoned after deducting both the tax on the current year's income and the instalment of deferred tax actually payable. These changes clearly indicate our Government's desire to assist our productive industries and, importantly, that it is prepared to meet differing requirements of industries with specific and unique needs. 
As the member for. the Mallee electorate in north-western Victoria and representing a large number of wine grape growers, several wine manufacturers and almost 90 per cent of the dried fruit industry which depends on brandy manufacture, I must point out the difficulties still confronting these industries. It should be mentioned that even with these further concessions, and despite their invaluable merit, the wine industry will now be taxed at a rate higher than that for other companies. For many wine manufacturers this could well be as high as  52lA  per cent compared with the company rate of 42  Vi  per cent. I give as an example an individual company that is being required to pay some $750,000 in deferred taxation over the next 7 years. This amounts to $103,000 each year. That company will require $7m in taxable income over this period to meet its commitment. The taxable income last year of this company was only $300,000. This indicates the intolerable burden and the impossible liquidity situation which will be created. This situation leads many of our companies, Australian owned and family owned companies, into a position where they will be ideally exposed to take-overs from multinational companies and overseas companies. There is also a vital philosophical argument as to whether the wine makers should even be obliged to repay a past commitment on which their future expectations and forward planning have been based. They were based on an expectation that the special stock valuation provision in section 31A would have been continued into the future. 
I refer to the unique problems being experienced by partnerships and individual taxpayers involved in wine production. These people represent only 2 per cent of the wine industry on a tonnage basis but their contribution in terms of innovation, diversity and quality production is invaluable. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will be aware of personal representations to him by my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  on this specific issue and he has been asked to consider these factors as they relate to partnerships and individual taxpayers. Their liquidity position does not seem to have been fully appreciated by either the Government or those responsible for placing the industry's position before the Government. They appear to have been placed at an additional disadvantage in comparison with proprietary companies in relation to the tax payable upon income which arose in the past and upon which tax was deferred because of the operation of section 3 1 A. The effect of the proposed new arrangements announced by the Treasurer on 14 April are, firstly, that Division 7 arrangements now state that income arising from the past does not have to be distributed. This effectively puts a ceiling of company tax rates upon the deferred income. Secondly, the normal Division 7 distribution required is reduced by the company tax on the deferred income. This will greatly reduce the consequent personal tax payable on normal income. However, for an individual wine maker the rate of tax on deferred income in a number of cases will vary between 60 per cent and 65 per cent because tax rates are increasing as total income increases. Thus the tax rates on deferred income on top of normal income are at the upper end of the scale. Marginal tax rates exceed company tax rates at incomes of $1 1,000 approximately, with normal personal deductions. I submit, therefore, that for equity with proprietary wine makers to be reached a ceiling of the marginal tax rate payable upon deferred income should be determined. I suggest that this should be no higher than normal company tax rates. 
The disposal of grape production in the future could well become a problem. If encouragement is not given to wine makers their ability to crush and store anticipated crops will be affected. Last season an estimated crop of 470 000 tonnes would have created a crisis but for several factors, particularly the high incidence of downy mildew, which resulted in a crushing of 412 000 tonnes. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has foreshadowed a surplus and wineries will have to look at their intakes and their liquidity problems. I think that this could well be to the detriment and uncertainty of growers. 
Over recent months there has been considerable discussion about the profitability of some companies involved in wine making. It should be remembered that many of our locally owned makers do not have any capacity for diversity and therefore are tied completely to wine making. The brandy excise also has created additional problems. Lower sales have resulted in increased stocks and many wine makers simply have not been able to continue the same level of brandy production. The cumulative effect is that wine income is being used to pay brandy taxes. 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Treasurer to consider these specific factors for future action. Firstly, the wine industry is still in a developing stage. Any curbs will mean an erosion of years of work and enterprise that has turned a cottage industry into one of the nation's and the world's important industries. At 30 June 1975 the industry was carrying 4 years stocks of dry red wine, or 145 million litres. I would be surprised if any other enterprise could carry such stocks and stay in business. We all know that the life of a vine ceases only when it fails to produce an economic yield. This may take up to 30 years or longer. A vineyard cannot readily be switched from one form of activity to another. As I said earlier, much has been said about the profits of large companies but there has been no mention of the poor return on funds invested and the heavy borrowings needed to sustain progress. No doubt the implementation of recommendations of the Mathews Committee and their application to stock adjustments will assist the industry but I would appreciate from the Minister further clarification of how their application to the wine industry in particular is anticipated. 
Many of the tax incentives contained in this Bill are unprecedented in their coverage and extent and will assist our objective of bringing forward a recovery in investment. There is no doubt that the long term prosperity of all our people will depend upon the reining in of inflation and the productive sector being given the incentive to expand and create employment opportunities. I support these Bills but ask the Government to consider the continuing problems that I believe some areas and some sections of the wine industry will have in the future. I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition and believe that it shows the hypocrisy and double standards of the Opposition. While in Government the Opposition removed all the incentives to our wine industry. It drove many producers into liquidity problems. Private enterprise suffered the same fate. Now Opposition members, particularly the honourable member for Adelaide, have had the gall to criticise this Government for expanding and continuing improvements and concessions to this vital industry. 
-The implementation of the Government's federalism policy requires a different role for the Commonwealth Grants Commission than has existed since 1973. This Bill before the House makes the changes to the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act so that it will be appropriate to our policy and so that it will make special provisions for the Commission to advise the Government on matters relating to assistance to local government under this new policy. It also, of course, removes the obligation on the Commission to report on applications by local government bodies. It should be emphasised that this Bill leaves unchanged the true role of the Commonwealth Grants Commission; that is, the right of States to apply for supplementary assistance to correct difficulties caused by small populations, remoteness and other special circumstances. The whole object of our policy is to provide each level of government with a known share of the national purse, increasing as the nation's economy grows. It will remove the instability brought about by ad hoc changes in Government policy or priority. It will allow long term planning based on known expectations. 
There is, however, another major advantage in the proposals put forward by the Government and that is that it ensures effective and responsible government with maximum community involvement. We intend to get rid of the belief held by the previous Government, and obviously by previous speakers, that all wisdom and knowledge reside in Canberra, that governments and bureaucrats far removed from the area of need can make decisions efficiently. I could cite one example which refers to the regional employment development scheme. Despite its many values to the community and particularly to the employment of unemployed people, the decision by the Labor Administration to halt that scheme created many injustices to local government authorities and organisations. We are all aware of the numerous applications that were prepared at considerable expense by local government authorities and even in some cases were approved by the Labor Government but then were not funded. We are all aware of projects that were commenced and were unable to be completed due to a mandatory holding of funds by the former Labor Government. Local government authorities should be able to expect an assurance that, having undertaken a commitment to a project funded by a government, it can be completed without bringing additional cost to the ratepayers. This example emphasises the effect of changes in government policies. Economic difficulties brought about by either a change of government or a change in government policy can be detrimental to the efficient administration and financial management of local government authorities. 
Both the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  quoted from policy statements and Press reports of Councillor Thwaites and  Mr Miles  of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition believed that the views he expressed were the views of local government authorities. However, I quote also from statements by Councillor Thwaites: 
The Council is extremely pleased that the principle has been established that local government should have its share in the new revenue-raising arrangements. It sees this as a vital first step towards rescuing local government financing from the bad old Oliver Twist days and putting it on a progressive and systematic footing. 
-That is right. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that everything done by the Grants Commission in relation to local government funding was done effectively. I will not deny that the Grants Commission had built up considerable expertise. It is indisputable that it performed its duties commendably but the second report of the Grants Commission for 1975 points to some very serious difficulties it experienced in administering its duties. I think it is fair to quote from that report. On page 2 1 the Commission says:  . . . considerable difficulties were experienced in the first year in assessing grants for local governing bodies . . . particularly in relation to the expenditure differential. Because of this the Commission had to resort to the use of judgment of the evidence, including an examination of each local governing body's own expenditure on a particular function. This evoked criticism from several sources. However, the difficulties stemmed from data problems which offer no short-term solution. It must be emphasised that these problems would be evident for any method used to determine a distribution of funds between local governing bodies on an equitable basis. They arise because of long-standing differences in accounting practices between local governing bodies within States and between States, some of which are of a fundamental nature. In addition, there are significant differences in the bases on which property values are fixed; these provide the basis for the distribution of the rate burden, and hence a measure of taxable capacity. 
Later in the report the Commission points to the difficulties that local government authorities have and the ability of many local government authorities in providing submissions to the Grants Commission. The report states:  . . . a substantial number of submissions were of little assistance to the Commission for the assessment of revenueraising capacity and expenditure disabilities. This was disappointing in view of the guidelines contained in the First Report and further detailed in circulars to every regional organisation and local governing body. Many submissions were simply ' shopping lists '-lists of projects which the councils would like to undertake, some amounting to many millions of dollars, without any attempt to indicate why they could not be financed from their own resources or what cost disabilities they would encounter if the projects were implemented. There were, of course, a number of excellent submissions that concentrated on identifying and quantifying revenue-raising and expenditure disabilities; unfortunately the number was not great and the Commission had to attach a great deal of weight to the evidence from these bodies in assessing the claims of their neighbours. 
These 2 problems encountered by the Commission indicate in the first instance that State Grants Commissions should be able to cope as effectively. Firstly, there is a greater degree of similarity between municipalities within States, although there are by no means standard procedures. Secondly, the ability for consultation with the Commission would be greatly enhanced. The brief time that the Commonwealth Grants Commission could spend in individual municipalities, or even in regions, was severely restricted. The second problem in regard to local government authorities' ability to prepare a meaningful submission will become a major subject for discussion in the formation or increased responsibility of State Commissions. It is to be expected that the expertise developed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the data information compiled will be freely available to the State Commissions. It will be invaluable and should assist in smooth and effective changeovers 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his second reading speech pointed out clearly the precise role to be played by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in the implementation of our federalism policy, which has not yet been fully determined. 
The honourable member for Grayndler always seems to be in a great hurry to hear the policies that our being espoused daily by the Government. As recorded in  Hansard  of 19 May he made a statement that the only policy yet put forward by the Government was a $13m giveaway to the rural sector. Of course, he conveniently forgot the tremendous advantages that the investment allowance, the drop in interest rates and the homes savings grants, which had all been implemented before that date, were conferring upon the Australian economy. If the honourable member had waited another day to hear the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on Thursday, 20 May, he would have heard two of the most significant reforms since Federationpersonal tax indexation and the implementation of the family allowance scheme. 
It is quite clear that this Bill considerably modified the Commission's role as related to local government finances. There is no doubt that local government is in a painful dilemma. It has been asked to pay for more sophisticated and comprehensive services, yet payment is becoming more difficult. Local government authorities simply do not have the capacity to raise the money. The rate of growth in local government tax revenue has been only half of State growth and only 77 per cent of Federal Government growth or, in comparative terms, increases have been 29 per cent and 25 per cent as compared with 20 per cent. Rural shires have suffered in this regard more than any others. For example, with the fall in incomes in wool grower municipalities their ability to raise income has dropped by 22 per cent. In pastoral municipalities this decrease has been even more prounounced with income decreasing by 48 per cent. The decrease has not been so substantial in grain producing municipalities, where a decrease of only 6 per cent has occurred, but when one considers that municipalities have had to cope with an inflation rate of up to 16 per cent over the last two or three years one realises the serious difficulties they are having in financing their projects. During this time too the increasing range of services that local government authorities are supplying has increased from 23.8 per cent in 1969-70 to 26.3 per cent in 1973-74 of current expenditure items. A statement of policy by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations points out that: 
Local government, provider of some of the most basic services to the community, should not have to depend for its finance on the vagaries of Federal-State politics, the waxing and waning of Federal-State relations, for it effectively to meet the expectations of the people who depend on it. This demands two imperatives: Financial assistance to Local 
Government must be linked as an adequate percentage with a major revenue source . . . 
This percentage must grow as total revenue grows. 
This is exactly what our federalism policy sets out to achieve. Local government does not deserve its status as the poorest of the 3 relations. Local government is nearer to the people, scrutinised more closely by the people and is more immediately accountable to the people. Yet it is the most cost effective level of government in the nation. Its plans are made and its priorities allocated in a constant public spotlight. People living in the shires and municipalities throughout the nation expect adequate water and sewerage facilities. They expect physical services such as libraries, swimming pools, sports grounds, etc. They expect a whole range of services for groups in the community which have special needs such as the old, the sick, the young, women and Aborigines. Yet local government is heavily disadvantaged when it comes to paying for these expectations. 
Total expenditure on public services by councils throughout Australia is running at an annual rate of $ 1,200m and $230m of this has come to local government this financial year in the form of federal grants. Roughly $300m is raised through the Loan Council. The rest, which is more than half of the total, comes from rates. Rates are neither a progressive nor equitable way of raising revenue. They are a sectional tax often bearing most heavily on those least able to pay. They are a subsidy of the whole of the community by one segment of it and there is a limit to the sum that can be raised by them. Indeed, the point is admitted on all sides of the problem that rates have been pushed up about as far as they can go. I feel that the effects of local government problems will be felt most tragically in the country where local government is a major employer of labour and also on the fringe of capital cities where local government services are most appreciated and most necessary. The economic statement of the Treasurer last Thursday night of necessity cut forward estimates of expenditure. However, in the announcement of its final decisions it ensured that special considerations will be given to the future of the problems of low income families and the needy to provide justice to the individual taxpayers. The important role that local government plays in our system was not overlooked with $ 140m to be made available in 1976-77 in general untied revenue assistance. This is a 75 per cent increase over the previous year. 
This Bill proposes necessary changes and is setting the stage for a true federalistic approach to government. It sets out to give every tier of government a real share of available finance and a new responsibility for decision making. The honourable member for Grayndler quoted from the statement by Councillor Thwaites. There is naturally disquiet in local government circles, particularly concerning the proportions of funds distributed  per capita  and needs classifications in the total assistance programs. Clearly  per capita  assistance must not be propounded at the expense of needs assistance or greater inequalities will develop. This, of course, is why the federalism policy is being discussed and why there is close consultation with the States and local government authorities. It is not our aim to push forward with the implementation of legislation as the previous Government did only to find that it was not applicable to the circumstances that the previous Government was endeavouring to correct. There is no reason why this Government, if it is prepared to consult and to co-operate and not to dictate and direct, will not by its genuine effort be able to treat local government as a highly responsible and desirable element of our system of government in Australia. I support this Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The Minister will be aware of the soaring costs of farm machinery, with increases of up to 400 per cent over the past 12 months. These increases are creating severe liquidity problems for producers and ultimately will restrict the capacity of primary industry to increase efficiency through equipment modernisation. Can the Minister advise the House of any action to investigate the excessive costs through a reference by farming organisations to the Prices Justification Tribunal? 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry able to advise the dairy farmers of Australia what assistance the Federal Government intends to provide after 1 July to prevent any possible collapse in the price for manufacturing milk? Have any of the State governments urged the Commonwealth to continue the present cost-sharing price support arrangement and indicated their willingness to continue to contribute? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that a pensioner holding a pensioner health benefit card will not have to pay a Medibank levy? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Can the Minister give the House any indication of the effects on Australia's trade of the present industrial trouble on the waterfront? Can he also advise the House of the effect which the proposed ban on trade with New Zealand would have on Australian exporters? 
-I hope that I will be able to confine my remarks to the BUI more than did the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The purpose of the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill is to bring the scale of licence fees payable by our commercial television stations into line with those payable by our commercial broadcasting stations. The same scale of fees was applicable to broadcasting and television stations from 1964 until 1973 when the fees payable by broadcasting stations were increased by the Whitlam Government. At that stage very strong representations were made to the Government to maintain the existing scale for commercial television stations. To this the Government agreed. That request was made so that the financial effects of the phasing out of cigarette and cigarette tobacco advertising could be assessed and so that the increase in the Australian content of programs and the introduction of colour television could be assessed. That position has now been reviewed and the Government has decided to increase the scale of fees- a scale, I point out, that has not been increased since 1964. 1 have asked the Opposition for permission to incorporate in  Hansard  the new scale of fees payable. I seek leave to do that. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Health. At what stage will a self-employed person be required to pay the  2Vi  per cent Medibank levy to the Taxation Office where a decision is taken not to insure privately? 
It is interesting to note that the former Minister for Tourism and Recreation, the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  recognises that, in pushing wages and operating costs so high, his Government effectively wrecked the Australian tourist industry. But it is not on that issue that I wish to speak tonight. I want to confine my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs as they relate to the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority, for which some $6,700,000 is appropriated. We all realise that the IAC came into existence in 1974 for the purpose of extending to all industries, including rural industries, a system of public scrutiny of advice regarding assistance. I think it is important in any discussion on the effectiveness of the IAC to recognise that under the Act the Government is precluded from taking action to provide long-term financial assistance to primary or secondary industries until it receives advice from the Commission. The IAC has no executive functions and no legislative authority. Legislative decisions about assistance, and hence about IAC recommendations, still remain in the political sphere. 
The credibility of the Commission's advice depends not only on the competence of its work but also on its inquiries being open to public participation and on its advice being open to public scrutiny. I believe that the IAC has earned credibility in the broad sense, but in a general discussion of these estimates I should like to make some criticism of the former Government's handling of IAC reports and offer some constructive criticism of the content of those reports. After the Labor Government established the IAC, it then set about undermining its value. For example, the IAC report on the motor car industry proved to be a waste of time, effort and money. The Australian Labor Party took no action. In respect of rural policy during Labor's unfortunate term of office, major decisions such as its Cabinet made to lower the wool reserve price, a decision which was subsequently reversed by Caucus, were based on  ad hoc  pressures. It was shown then, and it is still a difficulty, that the lengthy procedures of the IAC were not well suited to handling rural crises, where it is necessary to review and report rapidly. 
The Labor Government thumbed its socialist anti-rural nose at its own authority. For instance, the report on the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis in cattle was tabled in the Parliament at a most opportune time. These recommendations should have been implemented rapidly as a form of aid to a desperate beef industry. I can only conclude, as did all rural Australia on 13 December last, that the Labor Government and  Senator Wriedt  were not interested in the rural industries. The Labor Government proved that its pork barrel politics were more important when it came to the crunch than a good case presented by the IAC. Since coming to office the Liberal-National Country Party Government has been implementing many recommendations in reports which were not acted upon by the Labor Government, this to the benefit of rural industries. 
I wish to make some comments on submissions made to me by several primary producer organisations and industries expressing a need to allow speedier and cheaper approaches to the Temporary Assistance Authority and the IAC. With regard to the Temporary Assistance Authority, reference has been made to the time lag before an application can be made because harm or damage to any industry is a prerequisite for an application. A further time lag occurs because of the procedures necessary before a hearing can take place. The second criticism of the Temporary Assistance Authority relates to cost. It is obvious that many smaller industries do not have available the finance or the expertise or even the time of their part-time personnel to prepare and proceed with a hearing. One industry has stated that its recent Temporary Assistance Authority hearing cost $10,000 to $12,000. Either the Government has to provide financial and expert assistance to these industries or an alternative system has to be developed. A further weakness of the Temporary Assistance Authority system is the period between the notification that a hearing is being considered and the time the decision is made, which allows importers to increase imports substantially in that period. 
Criticism has also been made of the time lag in the provision of statistics, unless someone who has a special competence can provide the information. It has been said that other countries are better off in that regard. Another criticism is that any Temporary Assistance Authority determination applies only for 12 months and then an IAC hearing is necessary, which is even more costly and time consuming. In some cases confusion has arisen in relation to which department is involved and the roles of the various departments. Four departments- Business and Consumer Affairs, Industry and Commerce, Overseas Trade and Primary Industry- all have a role to play. It is a serious weakness in the Temporary Assistance Authority system that, unlike dumping procedures, where a provision exists requiring cash deposits while a decision is being made, within the Temporary Assistance Authority procedures importers have several months between the notice of a hearing and the start of restructuring, and there is a special need for a retroactive provision. I believe that many solutions can be recommended. A general panel could be set up comprising industry, processor and departmental representatives, which could hear applications asserting that damage may be done to an industry and which could provide temporary protection. This would include threats of imports which processors may use to depress the price to the producer. The power of the commodity panels could be increased to include this function. On the other hand, an interdepartmental committee with similar power could be set up to which an industry could complain. 
Some of the problems associated with the Temporary Assistance Authority are also associated with approaches to the Industries Assistance Commission. A general criticism is that references to the IAC are too specific. No consideration is given to the wider implications of an IAC recommendation. Consultation with the industry and consideration of the terms of reference would overcome this problem. The complaint about cost, expertise and time for a Temporary Assistance Authority hearing is multiplied for an IAC hearing. The time lag between the reference and the hearing and then the recommendations and government action is such that quite often events have overtaken recommendations. 
-As the honourable member for Darling Downs says, action should have been taken months before recommendations come out. Also the Industries Assistance Commission looks only at the situation at a given time and does not take into account the long term situation of the industry. Protection provided by the IAC is of decreasing value because usually it is an ad valorem tariff or tariff quota. Effective protection requires a percentage tariff or quota. The Government's decision to allow the IAC to publish draft reports for early industry analysis and comment has been a notable improvement. Section 22 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act states the policy guidelines for the Commission. I think that it is important to read the first part of this section. It states: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to the desire of the Australian Government, in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia, with full employment, stability in the general level of prices, viability in external economic relations, conservation of the natural environment and rising and generally enjoyed standards of living- 
While these criteria are broad, IAC reports tend to base their recommendations strongly on current economic factors and do not give sufficient emphasis to other associated and interdependent factors. For instance, I believe that the recommendations contained in the IAC report on dried vine fruits are not acceptable in total or for immediate implementation. Firstly, the report is incomplete in making no assessment of the effect on the wine industry of its recommendations for the dried vine fruit industry. Secondly, the inquiry did not include an in-depth examination of export marketing. Thirdly, insufficient information has been given on the ability of the Commonwealth to enforce the 2-pool scheme or the willingness of the States to implement complementary legislation to permit such a scheme to operate. 
The time is inopportune for further retrenchments in the dried fruits producing areas. Finally, I believe that insufficient consideration of the effects of the recommendations on the social life of the community has been given. I invite the Minister to consider these suggestions in an endeavour to streamline the operations of the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission so that they adequately meet the needs of industries and the nation. 
I wish to give my support to these 5 cognate Bills and to totally reject the amendment to the Social Services 
Amendment Bill moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I am sure that this House will agree that there must be no argument that the most significant change in the social security benefits area has been the amalgamation of child and student endowment into a single family allowance. This change by the Liberal-National Country Party Government is one of this country's most significant social reforms. It is now in operation and with the large increase in rates it will benefit in particular large families with low incomes. Those in most need will derive the most benefit. The changes will be of particular assistance to Aboriginal families. 
Our Government is committed to maintaining the real value of pensions. A decision has been made to increase pensions automatically every 6 months in line with increases in the consumer price index. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  spoke about a broken election promise. We never promised to legislate immediately to increase pensions but we did promise to adjust pensions automatically in line with increases in the consumer price index. The honourable member for Hughes adds lie to his own argument because in the Budget Speech for 1975-76 delivered by the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley, we read: 
The standard rate of social service pensions and benefits will be increased in the Spring of 1975 by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index between the December quarter 1974 and the June quarter 197S; and again in the Autumn of 1 976 by the increase in the Consumer Price Index between the June and December quarters of 1975. 
Not only did the former Government not legislate for immediate increases but it delayed increases to our pensioners for a significant time. The decision that has been made to increase pensions automatically will mean that from the first pay day in November the single rate of all pensions will be increased by $2.25 to $43.50 a week and the married rate will be increased by $4 to $72.50 a week. 
We have also decided to abolish the separate property component in the means test for pensions. This is another election promise of our Government which has been rapidly carried out. The honourable member for Hughes has made some criticism of this amendment but I believe that it is a significant social reform particularly for rural areas. As a result of this change there will be a greater cash flow in rural communities and they are certainly in need of it. The method of assessing the property component in the past was discriminatory and has not been realistic. For instance, for every $ 10 of the property valuation the pension was reduced by $1. This meant that it was equivalent to a 10 per cent return on an investment. We all appreciate that in rural areas at the present time 60 per cent of people have negative incomes and I am sure that in 98 per cent of these cases it would be totally unrealistic to expect a 10 per cent return on an investment. 
Reduced incomes and depressed sales in agricultural areas mean that people are not able to take advantage of the value of their assessed property. Property is a means of earning income and a family's livelihood, not only at present but in the future. We cannot expect people to sell off what is an income producing asset if the pension is not available to them. These persons are now subject to a means test based on a combination of income and income from property. Many people, particularly those in rural areas, will gain from this overdue reform. It has been an injustice that the means test has been based on a notional return from property even though actual returns from such property often fall well short of the notional return. 
It is significant and important for the Australian community to realise that the total outlay on social security and welfare in this Budget has been increased from $5,0 12m in 1975-76 to $6, 187m in 1976-77. This is a 23.5 per cent increase. It is also significant that it is 25.4 per cent or one quarter of the total appropriation in the last Budget. 
I wish to turn now to a very important Bill, the Handicapped Persons Assistance Amendment Bill. This Bill has 4 main purposes. It gives effect to the Government's decision to increase the rate of handicapped children's benefit. The handicapped children's benefit is payable to an eligible voluntary, religious or charitable organisation, or local governing body, which provides approved residential accommodation for handicapped children who are engaged in training programs. The Bill also provides for the rate of this benefit in respect of each physically or mentally handicapped child under 16 years of age to be increased from $3.50 to $5 a day with effect from 1 November. Claims for payment of this benefit are submitted monthly in arrears by the organisation. Currently this benefit is being paid to 86 homes in respect of 1400 handicapped children. 
The Government has also decided to increase the handicapped children's allowance from $10 to $15 per week. In addition, an amount of $30m comprising $2 7m for continuous commitments and $3m for new projects is being provided this year under this Bill. In 1977-78 an additional $ 10m will be provided for new projects as well as an amount for continuing commitments. In the third year, 1978-79, provision for new projects will be doubled to $20m in addition to providing for continuing commitments. Therefore, over these 3 years a total of $ 121m will be provided under this program. 
The Government is also providing $ 1 4. 1 m this year for the operation of the Commonwealth 
Rehabilitation Service which provides rehabilitation treatment and training to disabled people. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the amount of handicapped assistance appropriated for handicapped people. 

 The table read as follows- . 


<graphic href="101131197610144_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I believe that it is of utmost importance that the community, through the Government, provide assistance at the family level for children requiring constant care and attention. There has been some criticism, mainly through lack of understanding, that there has not been an increase in payment to handicapped children but in fact there has been a transfer of resources from the organisational level to the individual level. This is simply not true. I think if one looks at the annual report of the Department of Social Security for 1975-76 we can see how this confusion arises. The report states: 
It became apparent quite early in the year that the amount appropriated for expenditure, bearing in mind the unprecedented demands for assistance, would not be sufficient to meet the need in the event that all applications received could be approved. 
As a consequence I believe that the Department was realistic in introducing a system of priorities for the funding of capital projects. The report continued: 
Naturally the maintenance of existing handicapped persons' welfare services became of paramount importance to the Department and full attention was given to this essential pan of the program rather than, with a few well deserved exceptions ... It was realised that this policy would place considerable financial burdens on the organisations which needed assistance. 
A substantial increase in expenditure on salary subsidy as a result of extending the area covered by the subsidy to training centres and residential accommodation for handicapped children, and to activity therapy centres, was to be expected. However, the extent of the increase ... has had the effect of limiting the amount of funds available for other forms of subsidy, in particular the further development of many capital works. 
I think that the tremendous expenditure that was incurred in relation to salaries and staff subsidies can be emphasised by pointing out that in 1974- 75, 19 per cent of the appropriation in this area was represented by staff and salary subsidies. In 1975-76 the subsidies accounted for approximately 52 per cent of expenditure. This year the proportion spent on subsidies will increase to 66 per cent. Therefore, it is extremely difficult in meeting these recurrent costs to put an equivalent amount of money into capital expenditure. While the total allocation in 1976-77 is the same as in the previous year, and given the increased allocation for staff subsidies, the result, as pointed out, will be a reduction in the development of capital works. 
The honourable member for Oxley and the honourable member for Hughes were very critical of the Government's initiatives and as a result an Opposition amendment has been moved. I have already mentioned that there has been no broken promise by introducing automatic increases in pensions and benefits. This action has been taken in line with our policy. The former Government did not promise and did not carry out an indexation of dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living. The former Government did not say, and neither did we, that it would provide for the automatic adjustment of unemployment and sickness benefits for those people under 18 years of age. I once again refer to the Budget Speech made in 1975- 76 by the honourable member for Oxley when he was Treasurer in which he said: 
There will be no change in the rate of employment and sickness benefit payable to persons under 1 8 years of age. 
We believe that there should be some incentive for young people when they leave school to attempt on their own initiative to obtain an occupation. I do not believe that putting these people immediately on unemployment benefit is the way to go about providing this incentive. 
Paragraph (e) of the Opposition's amendment refers to the protection of the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by the provisions of this legislation. This is being done by the Government. There will be no loss of benefit by any pensioner as a result of this legislation. There will be no reduction in the benefit provided by these changes to the legislation. 
I wish to congratulate the Minister for Social Security and the Government for responding rapidly to the welfare needs of our community. However, I believe that there are one or two points in this legislation, particularly as it refers to handicapped persons, that the Government should reconsider and re-assess. Because of the huge content of the appropriation in salary and staff subsidies there will be a very critical need, particularly in the smaller organisations, for the purchase of equipment. I hope that the Government will assess this matter and provide room for increasing expenditure in this area which is so vital in servicing the needs of handicapped people, particularly in our institutions. 
Over the last 12 months I have made several recommendations and representations to the Government and the Minister on some issues. One to which I would like the Minister to give consideration is extending the criteria under which domiciliary care benefits are paid. I believe that by restricting this benefit to people beyond 65 years of age we are in fact creating some hardship for people with very severe difficulties but who are not at this age level. I also believe that in areas where nursing services are not always available we are discriminating against people in need of some form of benefit. I believe that the Department could have a look at providing some payment of this benefit if the need for it was certified by a medical practitioner. 
The last point I wish to mention is the payment of unemployment benefit to primary producers. Our Government for the first time responded to the crisis situation in many rural areas and among many self-employed people. The Government broadened the criteria which for the first time allowed many of our people in financial difficulties in rural areas to participate in unemployed benefits. But there is one situation that has developed in recent weeks that is causing me some concern. I refer to the Sunraysia and mid-Murray areas of my electorate where dried fruit producers have had an additional criterion placed on the eligibility application which indicates that any producer with a property in excess of 17 acres is automatically ineligible. I have written to the Minister and to the Departments on this matter. I am quite sure that in having a look at this peculiar situation some changes will be brought about that will allow these people on dried fruit properties to be eligible for unemployment benefit under the same income test and the same work test as any other people in our community. I believe that it should only be necessary for an applicant applying for unemployment benefit to prove that he has insufficient income for the maintenance of himself and his family and that he is available for full time employment. I hope that the Minister and the department will have a look at this problem with a view to alleviating the difficulty it is causing in part of my electorate. I totally reject the amendment moved by the Opposition and give my support to these Bills. I believe that they will mean significant improvements in social welfare and social security protection for the Australian people. 
-In October 1972 a select committee of the House of Representatives established by the LiberalNational Country Party Government of that time reported on the broad subject of wildlife conservation. It recommended that the Commonwealth Government initiate a national policy aimed at acquiring land in the form of national parks and reserves for the protection of habitat sites and that a program of grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution be instituted to enable the States to acquire areas of wildlife habitat that are of national importance. As the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  stated in his second reading speech, in 1974 the Parliament legislated to make it possible for the Commonwealth to provide financial assistance to the States for purposes connected with nature conservation. The relevant Act makes provision for the Minister to agree with an appropriate Minister of a State upon programs of land acquisition for nature conservation and for payments of financial assistance to be made to the States in accordance with the approved progams 
The amending Bill which we are debating tonight, the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Bill, is designed to provide flexibility in programs for nature conservation developed with the States. It is part of this Government's clear and stated overall policy of co-operation in State programs of management. This Bill deals specifically with conservation of Australian wildlife. Over the past decade, debate and concern about environmental and conservation matters have been widespread, particularly as they relate to our natural environment. This has been a most encouraging development and many creditable groups have acted in a responsible manner and have stirred public and government apathy. What concerns me, however, is that not all groups supposedly interested in promoting conservation and environmental issues do so with balance or honesty. In many instances some groups are quite irrational and, in fact, are doing the conservation cause immense harm. 
It is a natural tendency at our stage of developmenta transition from pioneering in both the agricultural and industrial stages into rationalisation and stabilisation- that issues of conservation and protection of our environment become prominent. Over the next few months this Parliament will be making important decisions closely tied to environmental issues and the preservation of our national heritage. They are closely tied to our responsibility to future generations. The Parliament will be charged with protecting many areas of unique environmental significance. We will be charged with protecting as well the economic livelihood of people, with improving their standard of living while retaining the uniqueness and importance of our national heritage. The world is becoming increasingly doubtful of our materialistic culture. We indicate a desire to live a simpler preindustrialised, pre-scientific day. That cannot be done. Science has created problems but it also has the means, as has been shown in the past, of being able to solve those problems. We cannot abandon agriculture or industrialisation. Our responsibility to a starving world depends on our food supply. 
Urban decay and an energy crisis will be solved by technology, not by returning to a simpler way of life. Industrialisation and modern agriculture have pushed the world's population to 4000 million. These people can be supported only by further advances in scientific knowledge and practice. My constituency, the Mallee electorate in north-west Victoria, contains some of Australia's most significant wetlands. They are significant as breeding grounds and as a natural resource. They are also significant in complementing the agriculture of these areas. As the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation clearly states: . . . waterfowl are declining in numbers as a result of the encroachment of agriculture and the resultant drainage of swamp land, the damming of rivers, flood mitigation programs and the trampling by stock and feral animals of nesting cover on the edge of lagoons. The flow of most rivers has been reduced by water conservation and flood mitigation schemes. Many of the most productive (in wildlife terms) swamps have been drained. 
Many of these measures have been carried out in ignorance, but more usually they have been earned out for the world's demand for productive and economic viability. The value of waterfowl, unfortunately, has rarely if ever been given consideration when water reclamation and conservation schemes have been implemented. In the inland areas many of the common game ducks have breeding seasons which are directly related to water level changes in swamps and billabongs. Although some breeding occurs each year, extensive breeding takes place only when lagoons and billabongs are replenished or when water spreads across the plains. The whole trend of water conservation on the inland river systems is to diminish or to prevent this flooding. This restricts waterfowl breeding. This Act is an instrument developed to maintain coastal refuges and to replenish adequate inland swamps and billabongs. This will go far towards ensuring the survival of all waterfowl. 
Unfortunately, many wildlife conservationists regard protection as the main obligation to native fauna. They cannot accept the idea of conservation for hunting. Perhaps the most viable and effective groups in my area in relation to the conservation of our unique fauna and wildlife are our field and game naturalist groups. It is my view that waterfowl conservation is justified, both because of its value as a game species and as a natural resource. As the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  pointed out, the recent tabling of the report on the protection of our flora and fauna in Australia recognises that habitat destruction is by far the most important threat to our wildlife population. We have made some very drastic and important recommendations which, when initiated by this Government, will assist in protecting some of our unique and rare fauna species. I do not wish to delay the passage of this Bill much longer. There have been increased demands for significant areas of national park development over recent years. Some of these parks are most desirable and wanted. In other situations I believe some of the demands have been totally unjustified. 
It is important for all our governments and groups, particularly conservation groups, to recognise that increased public lands require more than the simple proclamation of an Act. They need increased expenditure in many fields other than acquisition. They need increased expenditure in management and in controlling noxious weeds and vermin. I recently did a bit of research in regard to Victoria. It shows quite clearly that spending in relation to the control of such vermin and noxious weeds receives a very low priority. In fact, one man is employed within the service to look after some 3000 hectares of land, an impossible job and one which means that in our State and in most other States, because of its low priority, our public lands are becoming the prime means by which vermin and noxious weeds are being spread throughout the rest of the area in agriculture and through our national parks. As well, we must have increased expenditure on management and in controlling the various weeds and vermin which are one of the very real problems which we face when we increase our areas of public land. 
I believe that this Bill will provide the flexibility for States to carry out more appropriate measures in this way. I feel that one reason for local and public opposition to many conservation proposals has been a past unwillingness by many governments to effectively manage public land with the same enthusiasm and effectiveness which they expect from private land owners. I support the amendments moved to the Bill. I believe the Bill will provide in the future the vehicle by which environmental protection and conservation of our natural resources can all be achieved in balance with our needs for productivity and for the nation's economic welfare. 
-Can the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs indicate when the interdepartmental committee will be submitting to him its report summarising the recommendations in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission and subsequent industry submissions on the Australian dried fruit industry? When is the Cabinet expected to make a decision on the committee's recommendations? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Cabinet's decision will take into consideration the social and welfare implications of any economic adjustment to the industry and the decentralised communities it supports? 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that many business suppliers have advised their retail outlets that as from 29 November, only one day after devaluation, all goods would be increased in cost by 20 per cent? Can the Government take any action to halt this rip-off of consumers? Do small business people or their customers have any powers of recourse if they are aware of price increases obviously not related to the effects of devaluation upon imports? 
-Before bringing forward a grievance on behalf of rural people I would like to support my colleagues the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  in their criticism of the lack of credible reporting by an Australian Broadcasting Commission political commentator. I feel that his comments were fantasy and were totally lacking in informative and accurate reporting. I point out also to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who has just spoken, that in my understanding the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  alone did not bring about the change in compiling unemployment figures. The change was made after consultation with State Ministers for Labour and Industry. 
I believe that no greater imbalance could exist than that which is seen in the huge disparity in prices of petroleum products between rural areas of the nation and metropolitan areas. Without expounding any economic reasons a substantial case can be advanced on social equality grounds for reintroducing a price equalisation scheme. Acting on the Coombs task force report, the Australian Labor Party Government destroyed the petroleum products subsidy scheme that had been introduced in 1965-66 by a LiberalNational Country Party government. That action has resulted in increasing the cost of fuel by up to 35c a gallon above the price paid in metropolitan regions of Australia. It has resulted in significantly increasing the input costs of our rural sector and the transport industry on which the productive industries so heavily depend. The rural sector uses 19.5 per cent of the total refined petroleum produced, with 21.3 per cent of the product being used in the transport sector which serves it. 
The purpose of the former petroleum subsidy was simply to reduce fuel prices in nonmetropolitan areas to levels closer to city prices. The scheme incorporated an arrangement whereby the Government agreed to pay inland transportation costs in excess of 3.3c a gallon. Part of the administrative costs of the scheme were borne by the petroleum companies, which were required to furnish records of rural sales. The administrative expense on the part of the Government was very small. The total cost to the nation during the term of operation of the scheme was small, averaging $ 1 8.5m a year. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report on crude oil pricing states that price rises will add significantly to the many difficulties currently being experienced by many Australian industries. Some rural industries as major users of fuel and whose ability to pass on cost increases is limited, would be most affected. Our Government had to give incentives to oil exploration. If we do not attract exploration and drilling companies back to Australia we will shortly be faced not with price rises in the order of cents but with rises that will double our fuel costs in a few years. Australia has been supplying up to 70 per cent of its annual oil usage. As this percentage has been decreasing, expensive imports have been proportionally forcing our fuel costs higher. The advantages of being able to supply a major proportion of our oil needs was a direct result of our Government's policies. The loss of valuable technology and expertise, as with the exploration companies themselves, is directly attributable to a total lack of understanding by the previous Labor Government in removing concessions and incentives to the industry. 
It is imperative that the Government takes positive action in line with the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. It is imperative also that this action allows the exploitation of our potential oil reserves. However, it is essential that Australians receive their petroleum products at the cheapest possible price and at an equivalent price throughout the nation. An international comparison of prices at the retail level would suggest that petrol is cheap in Australia. This is misleading, as the Australian tax content of motor spirit is considerably less than that in other countries. For example, in France the price, less tax and duties, per gallon is 23.93c, in the United Kingdom it is 23.58c while in New Zealand it is 25.9c. In Melbourne the price ex-tax is 32.4c and in Sydney it is 32. lc. A major explanation for the differences in ex-tax prices probably lies in the cost of retailing. As is pointed out in the royal commission report, in the first part of 1975, at a time when Australian and New Zealand currency tax and motor spirit prices were all near parity, the cost of retailing to the motorist from service stations in New Zealand was 1 1.38 per cent of the ex-tax price of 56.2c. In Victoria it was 44 per cent of the ex-tax price of 65.4c and in New South Wales 42.8 per cent of the ex-tax price. 
Australian distribution costs are even more starkly highlighted by the following figures. In 1974 the approved retail margin in New South Wales was 10.9c per gallon, to which must be added rental charge. This additional rental has been estimated at 7c a gallon, with the result that the true retail margin in New South Wales is nearly 18c a gallon. In New Zealand the retail margin is only 6.3c a gallon-approximately 35 per cent of the New South Wales margin. Despite the high retail margins for the distribution of petrol in Australia, there is no evidence that excessive profits are being earned in retailing by the companies concerned, the lessees or independent retailers. This is because high retail margins are accompanied by high distribution costs. 
Some years ago a form of trading developed in Australia through contracts where dealers agreed to sell one brand of motor spirit only. As a direct consequence of this the number of retail outlets increased from approximately 1 1 000 in 1951 to 21 000 in 1966. This proliferation of retail outlets is largely responsible for the high cost of retail distribution in Australia. An analysis of marketing costs reveals that the cost of marketing through a 50 000 gallons a month station is only 62 per cent of the cost per gallon of selling through a 25 000 gallons a month station. It should therefore be possible to reduce prices by up to 10c a gallon if we ignore the effects of inflationary costs during a rationalisation process. Such a rationalisation process would also assist service station proprietors in improving their profitability which in general terms has become unrealistically low and has created severe hardships for many retailers. 
The previous equalisation scheme can be criticised particularly on the ground that it dealt only with transportation costs. The overall price structure could be analysed to determine whether the pre-subsidy prices were justified. Lower retailing costs could reduce the existence of price differentials. It could be that many rural and urban consumers were being charged excessive prices. There is a real need to examine the total rural distribution system. I am quite sure that the Government will be doing this in the context of the IAC examination. However, we know that inland transportation costs for primary producers amounted to $ 12.42 a ton or 4. lc a gallon, which is 3 times the average cost of supplying the overall retail network. Analysis also reveals that the combined cost of commission, installation and depots associated with supplying primary producers was $ 1 7.76 a ton or 5.8c a gal&gt;n compared with Australian-wide figure of $4.3 a ton. 
The rural sector is virtually dependent on petroleum fuels. Primary industry is export oriented to approximately 60 per cent and does not have the ability to pass on input costs. The whole trend of agriculture since the war has been towards capital intensification. The general lower standard of farm prices has been countered by increased productivity over the years to the extent that today the industry is basically dependent on petroleum fuels. The House will be aware that in the United States of America and in Canada, our 2 major competitors in agricultural trade, the on-farm price of automotive distillate and gasoline is below the Australian onfarm price even though the price for crude oil in both countries is approximately twice the crude oil price in Australia. Radical changes must be made to rationalise distribution and major inefficiencies in petroleum retailing which would reduce both rural and urban costs. Incentives must be allowed to companies in the search to find and develop local potential. Rural people cannot be expected to produce the bulk of the nation's export earning while being penalised by their geographical position. A noticeable trend is developing towards decentralisation. The growth of Sydney and Melbourne is slowing down. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of my representations to him about the reported closure of the Mildura flight service unit during weekends. Has he been able to carry out a review of this situation? If so, what arrangements are being made to permit essential administrative and operational duties to be performed? 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has a close and personal knowledge of the enormous cost and scale of rehabilitating the fire devastated properties and families in the western part of Victoria. Before restocking and production can begin properties have to be fenced and essential basic buildings restored. Will the Minister examine the feasibility of developing an employment scheme with the dual purpose of speeding up that reconstruction work and providing employment to a large number of potential workers? 
-I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-The Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park is without doubt one of the world's great national parks. It is the focal point of Central Australia. I am quite sure that all of us recognise it as a valuable part of the national heritage. The report of the Committee recognises that difficult economic situations presently face the nation. But the Committee sees the need for essential interim work to commence, and believes that the necessary finance should be provided in 1 977-78 to allow the Northern Territory 
Reserves Board to commence interim work in the park, to allow the commencement of construction of a new air strip outside the boundaries of the park and to allow the commencement of the sealing of the Erldunda-Ayers Rock road. The Committee also recommends that the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service should devise and implement quickly a comprehensive management plan for the park. 
This park is located in an arid region. There is a fragile environment, and the relationship between the flora and fauna and the environment is susceptible to change. The intent of this report is to preserve this environment by improving management while catering for the increasing and continuing use of the park by Australian and international tourists. This comprehensive management must involve the local population, particularly the Aborigines whose traditions and association with this region contribute to its cultural quality and its unique features. I believe that the Australian nation owes a great deal to the dedication of the administrators and staff of the park who have preserved, with severe restrictions and often under difficult living conditions, this region for future generations. Acceptance of recommendations contained in this report is essential if a serious breakdown in both the environment and scenic attractiveness of this area are to be avoided. I have pleasure in joining with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in recommending this report to the Government. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry confirm reports that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has just revised its forecast of income per farm for 1976-77 to $200 a week compared with its December 1976 forecast of $169 a week and its September 1976 forecast of $126 a week? Can the Minister say how much of this substantial improvement is due to action taken by the Government in the past year to assist primary producers? 
-We have reached a stage in Australian education where an obvious rationalisation and accurate assessment of the post secondary area is needed. Since I was elected to Parliament some 5 years ago I have witnessed many important initiatives and innovations of our Federal governments. Education has rapidly become a significant issue in our community and in our parliaments. A study of the historical development of education in Australia, however, indicates an urgent need for a planning body to introduce a balance in funding and programs with the long term interests of the nation's population in mind. Too often education appropriations into each area of education have relied upon the ability of many groups to impress their will on the governments of the day. Out of this has grown an imbalance and deficiencies and duplication of physical, financial and human resources. On 27 August the  Canberra Times  stated: 
Apart from inertia on the part of the planning authorities the lack of any rational co-ordination between all sectors of tertiary education, the neglect of careers guidance and the absence of close links between TAFE and the secondary schools, and the misplaced emphasis on the value of university degrees, there has been an unforgivable failure to understand and constantly bear in mind that the creation of the wealth upon which all the people in Australia depend for their livelihood and affluence is primarily the work of the skilled tradesman and the primary producer. Without its wool, wheat, sugar, meat, milk, timber, steel, fruit . . . and other products Australia could not support in above average comfort its tens of thousands of academics, public servants, politicians, entertainers, and market speculators. 
The report went on: 
The urgency of allocating more resources to technical education in underscored by the facts that we can no longer count as much as in the past on the skills brought in by immigrants, on the strong belief that the young in Australia are in for prolonged periods of unemployment, that the demand for skills and for the upgrading of existing skills will increase, and that our technical education facilities have long been starved of funds for capital equipment . . . 
It is the intention of the Government to do just this. The new Tertiary Education Commission is to develop and to recommend policies on the basis of government financial support for institutions in the whole post-school sector of education throughout Australia. The Commission will be concerned with balanced and co-ordinated development and encouragement of diversified opportunities in post-school education. The new Commission will play a significant role in shaping and influence the future character of postschool education in Australia. To achieve this goal the 3 existing education commissions, the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and Further Education Commission, will be replaced by 3 councils of the corresponding names. These councils will preserve much of the essential qualities of the existing commissions while working with and being subject to the co-ordinating functions and authority of the new Tertiary Education Commission. 
The Tertiary Education Commission represents a major advance on earlier proposals for 3 main reasons: Firstly, it will include the important area of technical and further education; secondly, it recognises the distinct nature and status of each of the 3 post-school sectors; and thirdly, it obliges the Commission to consult with appropriate State authorities in the performance of its functions. To exclude technical and further education from the co-ordination mechanism would be to fail to appreciate the inevitable working interface between colleges of advanced education and institutions of technical and further education and of course the continuous need to rationalise functions between the two. It would ignore also the need to upgrade the role of technical and further education in the post-school sector. 
To assist the new Commission in the performance of its functions, the legislation will provide for a separate Universities Council, Advanced Education Council and Technical and Further Education Council, which will be statutory bodies. The status of these councils will give recognition to the special requirements of each sector. The councils will have the right of investigation and will be expected to conduct detailed negotiations with institutions and authorities. They are to be regarded as important and authoritative sources of advice and contact in their own sectors and their views will be made known both to the Minister for Education and to the Commission. The rolling triennial reports of the Commission will incorporate in full the reports of the councils to the Commission. Clause 37 of the Bill provides for the right of each Council, in addition to responding to requests from the Minister or the Commission, to inquire into and advise the Minister upon whatever matters it wishes within its own sector of education. Wherever a Council gives advice to the Minister it is to make that advice available to the Commission also. It is important for the future quality of education that those essentially distinctive and authentic characteristics of the various types of tertiary institutions should be preserved and developed, while recognising that the nature of individual units will change and evolve and the need for new-type institutions will emerge. The existence of the 3 councils in association with the coordinating Commission will provide these opportunities. 
I am confident that the new arrangements will permit a truly co-ordinated approach to the funding by the Commonwealth of post-school educational institutions and will provide effective means for preventing wasteful duplication and overlap. The new Commission will maintain close contact with the Williams Committee on Education and Training which is currently inquiring into the future goals of education in terms of human fulfilment and career development. I wish to emphasise that this Bill, in establishing the Tertiary Education Commission, should not and will not remove from any government its responsibility for policy, for establishing its own objectives and for providing adequate appropriations. Decisions will still have to be taken after reports are received. What is important though is that such decisions or the setting of guidelines by a government can be assessed through the medium of public reports and be of long term educational value to this nation's community. 
Recently I have been involved in visits to educational institutions in various States. While recognising areas of deficiency throughout Australia I also recognise a high level of education achievement. The demands upon this nation's resources make it imperative that there be a realistic disbursement of funds and objectives to all sectors of education. It can only be in the interests of our young people and adults seeking education and training that the best possible use of resources is made. To establish the aims of this new legislation it is wise to discuss briefly the way that these 3 sectors being brought together under this overall umbrella can operate and some of the disadvantages of these changes. 
The Universities Commission has developed over the years into a body with expertise. Because of the small numbers of institutions they have had direct access to the Commission and to the Government. I believe that this position will not change. However, difficulties and frustrations have been encountered by the colleges of advanced education. The major difficulty they have encountered is a duplication of responsibility at State board level and in Canberra. The technical area of course has been largely State funded and there has been a large degree of flexibility in planning. This flexibility has allowed the technical colleges to respond to community needs. In doing so, however, particularly in introducing some courses, they have put themselves in direct competition with colleges of advanced education which perhaps have committed already resources, funds and staff to similar courses. Whilst these courses may be at different levels, often they have been meeting the same community demand. I do not believe that this flexibility that the technical people have had available to them should be diminished. But there must be responsibility for all in the postsecondary area. 
The Opposition has gone to great lengths, both in this House and in the other place, in this debate to attack the Government on its education policy. I feel that it is important to recognise that in a time of economic hardship and restraint, it has been possible to continue to support education in a positive and increasing manner. The previous Government made many notable achievements in education and our Party has supported these advances on almost all occasions. But what the Opposition has failed to mention during the debate in both Houses are 2 most important facts. I am quite sure that honourable members opposite omitted them because they were not proud of them. One was that possibly their most successful and perhaps only successful Minister during their term in office, the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  was relegated to the back bench for his enterprise. I believe that this has been to the disadvantage both of the Australian Labor Party and of the nation. The other was that the last Whitlam Budget reduced expenditure on the 4 education commissions by $ 105m. It set aside the triennial basis of funding which was then operating. This was a particularly serious thing to happen. It froze all student allowances at the level operating at June 1 974. Of course, because of the Whitlam Government's policies- its tariff cuts and its economic mismanagement generally- it created more juvenile unemployment and in fact created a greater demand for education under the new economic conditions. 
In this situation in 1 977, the Liberal-National Country Party Government has put more money into education. Not only did we provide money to cover inflation, but we put in more money again to create real growth. We re-established the rolling triennium with appropriate minimum funding guidelines. We have increased student allowances and we have started new training schemes. We all are aware of the appointment of a most important and significant committee- the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing the expenditure programs of the various education commissions. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware that tariff quotas currently applying to imports of orange juice and orange juice concentrates terminate on 30 June. Have any further decisions been taken to provide a level of assistance to the citrus industry that will effectively maintain returns to growers? 
-I never cease to be amazed at the tremendous ability of the Opposition to raise issues in this House which only serve to demonstrate further its total lack of action and its attack upon matters which vitally affected the well being of Australia's rural communities during its term in office. It was perhaps in the area of water resource programs and projects that its record was the most dismal. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has just mentioned that the Government has totally ignored the Monduran Dam. I put it to him that that Queensland storage was completed with the use of Commonwealth funds some two years ago. 
Let us look a little further at what happened between 1972 and 1975 when the Whitlam Government thankfully had a short term in office. Very few commitments were made. I will allow the House to judge the reasons why the commitments that were made were made, particularly in the electorate of Dawson. For instance, the Kinchant Dam represented a commitment of $5m while the Proserpine flood mitigation project represented a commitment of $120,000. 1 suggest to the House that those two most important projects to the electorate of Dawson were made then only for political expediency in a vain attempt to save the then member for Dawson. Thankfully it failed. 
Every other major expenditure was made only to honour former commitments made by the previous coalition government. I shall mention some of them. The Bundaberg project cost some $ 17.2m, and that was a commitment made by the previous coalition government. Of that amount, $ 12.8m had already been allocated and only $4.4m had to be expended by the Labor Government to complete the project. The New South Wales coastal rivers flood mitigation scheme fits into the same category, as do the Tailem Bend and the Lock Kimba pipeline schemes in South Australia. The commitments made in respect of all those projects were made by the former coalition government, and completed by the Labor government. I believe that during its term the Whitlam Government actually reneged on a commitment made in relation to the Pikes Creek project. I remember at that time the successful representations made by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  to the then Minister for National Development, the Honourable Reg Swartz, who agreed to sharing with New South Wales and Queensland the cost of constructing the Pikes Creek dam. Preliminary work was being carried out when the Labor Party came to office. The Whitlam Government abdicated its responsibility to carry on with that project which had been agreed to by the previous Government. 
Let us look for a moment at the development of our national water programs. After two years of prolonged discussion with the States on a national water program between 1973 and 1975, the Whitlam Government was not able to obtain a single commitment; it did not enter into a commitment in relation to any individual project. 
The present Government has achieved and will be achieving a great deal over the next two and three years as far as our national water programs are concerned. Already Sim has been allocated to New South Wales for the Namoi River weirs. One could refer to the statement made by the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in relation to the water hyacinth program which effectively assists the States of New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria. At that stage the Commonwealth announced an allocation of $50,000 to New South Wales during 1977-78 towards the cost of an action program to control the water hyacinth infestation on the Gingham Watercourse on the Gwydir River. Since then, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia have each matched the Commonwealth's contribution. This year the program will concentrate on improving water management in the infested areas, selective spraying and further research on biological control of the water hyacinth. There is no doubt that that program ultimately will assist in protecting the lower reaches of the River Murray system from water hyacinth. 
Of course, one can refer also to the fact that agreement has been reached in principle with New South Wales local authorities for the coastal rivers flood mitigation program which is estimated to cost $28m. We have also announced a water resources program under which the Commonwealth will consider grants to the States for projects which they believe should receive the highest priority. We have embarked on a three year water assessment program with the States at a cost of $6.6m over each financial year. 
Of all the measures commenced and undertaken by the Government none has been more important than the extension of the role to be played by the River Murray Commission. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  mentioned the work that he did in that regard, but it was only when the coalition Government come to power that the role of the River Murray Commission in relation to water quality was actually broadened. The Commission can now consider water quality in the operation of works under its control. It can now carry on a water quality monitoring program on the main stem and on the lower end of all tributaries. It can initiate, authorise and co-ordinate studies on matters directly concerned with water quality management on the main stem of the River Murray. It can also recommend to the States standards for water quality in the main stem of the River Murray, and it can make recommendations to the States on the operation of State salinity control and drainage works which affect water quality in the main stem of the River Murray system. These are important changes? 
However, it is doubtful whether the increased responsibilities of the River Murray Commission go far enough. In my view, it is important that a national authority be formed to oversee all aspects of the vast River Murray system. The River Murray system includes 1.6 million acres of highly productive land. It represents an enormous investment in land resources and people. It was with that in mind that our present Minister for National Resources recently made an extensive tour from Albury at the upper end of the Murray River system through to Adelaide. He took into account the various factors that affect this vital River Murray basin, including flood mitigation, irrigation, urban water supply, salinity, pollution and even such important aspects as recreation and the environment. 
Over the years there is no doubt that parochialism and political expediency, both intrastate and interstate, have caused many vital problems to the River Murray system. In many aspects they have probably done irretrievable harm. It is important, however, that we utilise this most important system to achieve the optimum development of Australia. It is an integral system, and basic logic demands that it should be so managed. There is no doubt that excessive utilisation of water is taking place towards the headwaters in New South Wales. It is being over-allocated with the result that in critical times there is insufficient flow in the rivers to contain pollution and meet the needs of vast lengths of the lower reaches. This is happening as far upstream as Mildura. It is likely to extend further upstream to Swan Hill and into the lower reaches of the large tributaries. At critical low river flow times tremendous problems are likely to occur in relation to salinity in future years. 
I ask the House where we will get the quality and quantity of water to maintain irrigation and further urban and industrial development in the general lower Murray area and the industrial and urban South Australian regions. Even now the quality of water in the lower reaches is below the standards of the World Health Organisation for drinking water. It is unsuitable for many industrial and agricultural purposes. The environment has been and is being dramatically altered. With these things in mind I believe that the recent visit by the Leader of the National Country Party and Minister for National Resources was most important. Irrigation development in the Murray system was sponsored by the Government. It is vital to the welfare of thousands of whole communities in Australia and to decentralisation. 
This matter of public importance today is at best only a smoke screen in attempts by the Opposition to make people forget the devastation to Australia's water resources projects during its term in office. It will take 20 years for rural people to forget the destruction that the Opposition brought upon rural communities when it was in office. The tremendous benefits that tax reforms, tax averaging, income equalisation deposits, superphosphate and nitrogen bounties, changes in the pension system and the unemployment benefits scheme have made to rural communities cannot be hidden. It is most unjust and only a smoke screen when the Opposition endeavours to bring forward a matter of public importance which has no bearing on the problems Australia is facing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The discussion is now concluded. 
-I ask the Minister for Overseas trade whether he met  Mr Otto  Lang, the Canadian Minister responsible for the Candian Wheat Board, during his visit to Australia this week. Was the question of a new international wheat agreement discussed and, if so, what was the outcome of those talks? 
The Prime Minister will be aware of widespread devastation by storm and hail to the Sunraysia district of the Mallee electorate. Inspection shows that about 600 horticulturists have been seriously affected and the majority of these suffered a 100 per cent loss. The gravity of the disaster can be gauged by estimated losses of from $20m to $22m. This is a national disaster with serious financial and social implications for producers, home owners, business people and municipalities and upon the general stability of the region. I ask: What are the arrangements for joint State-Commonwealth assistance for a disaster of this magnitude? Will the Government respond to requests for financial assistance? 
-Eight days ago the Sunraysia district in my electorate and parts of New South Wales experienced its worst hail storm since the inception of irrigation in 1887. The whole of the Red Cliffs Irrigation Settlement and the Red Cliffs township was battered by gale force winds and areas of Bird woodton, Mildura South and Mildura East were affected also. Some 600 horticulturists farming some 4,000 hectares have been affected and the great majority of these will have no crop in 1 978. The information that I have given is sufficient to indicate the gravity of this problem. These estimates relate to dried vine fruit crops and do not include losses in citrus crops, vegetable crops, cereal crops, housing and structural damage on horticultural properties and damage to housing and commercial premises in the Red Cliffs township. Taking into account all these factors and assuming a crop value of $700 per tonne, it is expected that the total damage will exceed some $20m. 
The Council of the Shire of Mildura decided that its ratepayers required some immediate reassurance about financial commitments and it resolved at its meeting on Thursday night to remit rates on affected properties for the financial year 1977-78. The Council in these disastrous circumstances, has given a lead to the community and our governments and this remission of rates will not only be of considerable assistance to the affected ratepayers but will also encourage government and semi-government authorities to offer similar assistance. The Council could well face a total remission of some $250,000 for these properties. This decision mirrors the Shire Council's concern for the welfare of all families living in its district. 
Severe storm damage occurred in the Red Cliffs township and many houses and commercial premises were damaged. Some Millewa farmers lost their cereal crops but no definite figures are yet available. Total rate remission may reach at least 15 per cent of the Council's rate income for 1976-77 and the loss of this rate revenue will have repercussions throughout the Shire. 
I commend this initiative by the Council, taken so quickly after the disaster. It is an immense support to the growers and it shows a commendable appreciation of the psychological effects of the disaster upon the people of the whole community. I believe that special funds should be available to compensate the Council and to enable it to bring down a responsible budget. The effects of this disaster will be felt throughout the Sunraysia community. The growers can expect no income in 1978 but they will have to work their properties to ensure a crop in 1979. They will have to meet all normal working costs and all normal household expenses. 
The dried vine fruits industry merits special consideration. It is far more susceptible to the vagaries of weather than any other rural industry and growers are required to meet far more immediate costs in order to bring their properties back into production. Undoubtedly there will be a downturn in commercial activity in the Sunraysia district because of the loss. The employment situation must become worse as a result of this disaster. It is vital for the growers to remain on and work their blocks if they are to bring their properties back into production. Their particular situation must be looked at sympathetically by the Department of Social Security and I am appreciative of directions given already. 
It is the unemployment problems that will be caused in service industries, commercial houses and for permanent workers on blocks which are of immediate concern. It is hoped that consideration will be given to making special grants available to local authorities to reduce the impact of this disaster as much as possible. It must be stressed that the problem will remain with this community for the whole of 1978. There will be forthcoming submissions from the Australian Dried Fruit Association resulting from resolutions carried at a mass meeting of 800 people at Red Cliffs on Monday night. They relate to direct assistance that can be provided from the Commonwealth Government, outside the arrangements that exist under the national disaster relief legislation. The response from State and Federal governments will have a profound effect upon the future viability of families, the dried fruit industry and the Sunraysia region of my electorate. 
-In this debate on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department I wish to direct most of my remarks to the excessive telephone charges imposed on country people- as has been referred to by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)-  and the disincentives that these charges are having on growth and services in areas outside the metropolitan areas. Since coming to office, our Government and Telecom Australia have made several significant policy changes in both the telecommunications and postal fields that have been of benefit to rural subscribers. I could, of course, instance the free telephone line extension to an automatic exchange which has been increased from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres. This has been a most significant advance and has assisted some 80 per cent of those people who are new subscribers by an amount of up to $1,280. It is a major initiative. I am sure that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  will have many people in their electorates, as I have, who still are being required to pay in excess of $4,000 and $5,000 simply to have a new telephone connection. 
Last week we approved a recommendation from Telecom for reduced Sunday charges. There is spare capacity on Sundays, and while this measure will allow a saving to be made it will no doubt increase Telecom's revenue and will be of advantage to subscribers making only social calls. It does nothing to assist subscribers in industry, trade or commerce to reduce their costs and so improve their services. 
For many years now, since the time the Australian Labor Party Government reduced the 15 mile free telephone connection, I have been submitting to Telecom proposals aimed at reducing costs and providing some equality to country people. I wish to mention a few of these submissions and give to the Committee the reasons supplied by Telecom. I submitted that in the interests of decentralisation and the continued viability of non-urban areas, telephone charges, including the cost of calls, should be levied at a standard rate throughout Australia. This was the reply from Telecom: 
If concessional tariffs are granted to country industry for the telephone or telex services, existing facilities, including telephone exchanges and underground cable, would have to be upgraded to cope with the additional traffic which would result. The existing telephone network is designed to accommodate a particular movement of traffic. Any substantial increase in the use of available lines could be met only by a costly program to increase the facilities which serve particular rural areas. It was estimated in 1976 that the introduction of uniform trunk telephone charges would, in order to maintain the same trading result as at present, require the charge for a three-minute trunk call of the order of $1.38 . . . It was also estimated that if uniform charging were introduced a local call and a three-minute trunk call would each have to be priced at 47c to achieve the same trading result as given by the present differential tariff structure. 
When that submission was rejected another was put to Telecom. It was that the radius for local telephone calls be extended to 100 kilometres and that all subscribers should have access to a local call charge to their main centres of commerce, or medical or education facility. I quote the reply that came from Telecom: 
The provision of reduced telephone call charges between areas is not simply a matter of rearranging zone boundaries to meet any request. The boundaries of telephone zones and districts must be determined according to criteria applicable to the telephone system and must recognise switching and technical requirements. Consequently, any alteration to the existing arrangements would entail extensive restructuring of the telephone network at substantial cost to cater for the changed traffic patterns . . . Telecom Australia has considered sympathetically the case of rural subscribers who cannot call a large business centre for a local call ... If the radius for local calls was increased as suggested, in general terms calls over 30 kilometres would have to be subsidised by calls under 30 kilometres. 
As the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  said, what the Government should be looking at and what Telecom should be looking at is a change in the system. Those replies from Telecom all say much the same thing- country people will continue to be charged excessive costs for what is supposed to be a national instrument of service and for something that promotes development in country areas. The reasons and excuses are based on either economic or technical reasons, and tonight I would like to examine this matter in greater depth with the aim of promoting a realistic and viable alternative to the current country subscriber tariff charges that can be considered and accepted by Telecom. 
Generally, the difficulties promoted by Telecom are, firstly, the unsuitability of a new tariff system from an engineering point of view; secondly, the cost of converting to any new system as funding comes from Telecom's profits; thirdly, the development of a system to operate throughout Australia and not only in designated areas; fourthly, the need to find political acceptability for any proposal and consensus throughout the nation; and, fifthly, any new system must maintain Telecom revenue. I now put to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  his Department and Telecom that our telephone system should and can be converted to operate on a time- fee basis. Local call charging can be levied on a time factor and an additional charge made for any extension of calls. Research has been carried out which indicates that 97 per cent of all telephone calls are made in major metropolitan areas and that the average time of a business or professional call is six minutes. I therefore submit that a time-fee charging basis could be acceptable politically and financially. An additional levy for extended call times would not unreasonably vary the basic metropolitan rate. This system would add to efficiency in that telephones would not be engaged for lengthy periods and when they were so engaged there should be a valid reason; if not a penalty rate should apply, justifiably. I appreciate the support I am getting from other members of my party. I believe that metropolitan subscribers would appreciate having responsibility for effective use of the telephone. There would be penalties for calls of excessive time duration. This would also allow Telecom to adjust its subscriber fees. I sincerely hope that this will not be necessary but fee movements, whether they be up or down, could be adjusted by decreasing or increasing the time allowed for the call and not by the charge. 
Telecom has not accepted many proposals because there are technical difficulties or impossibilities in the technical area. I suggest that Telecom has the capacity to vary the time factor for calls. So far as country based subscribers are concerned, this would have the additional benefit of eliminating the unjust situation about calls that do not relate to distance but are currently levied on non-adjoining zones. This is an archaic and unreasonable system. For example, a call over some eight kilometres in one direction can be a trunk call while another call over 30 kilometres in another direction is a local call. In my electorate of Mallee some subscribers pay up to 90c a call simply to order a loaf of bread or essential items such as fuel, machinery parts or household needs. This is a scandal in a modern community. It is discriminatory and a major handicap to normal living. Currently metropolitan Melbourne users can telephone from Werribee to Frankston, a distance of some 70 kilometres, for a charge of 10c and without time limit. The system I have suggested would not vary the basic cost of telephone calls in metropolitan areas but would apply a penalty for lengthy calls. If this method is presented to the public in the correct manner I am certain it would be found to be agreeable. 
Country telephone accounts are now so excessive that the country operator is forced to use postal services more frequently. This is slower, ess convenient and more expensive if one takes into account the cost of additional staff salaries. So many governments in the past gave only lip service to decentralisation. This one example, of the cost of telephone calls, is a major deterrent to industrial expansion in the country. I am a member of the National Country Party and I live in a vast rural area, but this problem applies also to people in the growth centres of Geelong and Campbelltown. Those centres are not in the metropolitan call zones and they suffer similar disadvantages in costs and services. Businesses large and small will not tolerate this because they cannot remain viable when their communication costs are so high. 
I believe the redistribution as proposed for Victoria represents a gross injustice to the electoral and political rights of all Victorians. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The redistribution we are considering at the moment is that of Western Australia. I suggest that any comment being made ought to be made about Western Australia. 
Can the Minister for Health inform the House of the action the Government is taking to control Australian encephalitis? 
-We are debating this afternoon two Bills concerned with States grants in the field of education. I wish to speak briefly to the first of these which provides financial assistance to the States for universities, colleges of advanced education, and colleges of technical and further education for 1978. This Bill gives effect to the financial recommendations contained in the report of the Tertiary Education 
Commission for 1978. The Government has decided to accept its recommendations. That acceptance will result in the allocation of an estimated total of $1,1 36.5m, at June 1977 prices, for institutions in the States. Universities will receive some $5 94m, colleges of advanced education $443m, and technical and further education institutions $97m. 
In accordance with the Government's guidelines for the 1978-80 triennium, these grants will be adjusted in subsequent legislation for cost movements to the end of 1977 and for increases in wages and salaries components of recurrent grants during 1978. In the past separate Bills have been required to implement the approved programs of the three tertiary education sectors. With the establishment of the Tertiary Education Commission, which replaced the three previous commissions concerned with tertiary education, it is now possible to consolidate the necessary legislation into one Bill. These new arrangements will permit a greater degree of flexibility in the administration of approved programs, thereby assisting the Commission in its functions of co-ordination and rationalisation for the tertiary education system. 
This Bill also provides for adjustments for movements in costs between December 1976 and June 1977. The additional funds provided are $24m for universities, $10m for colleges and $3.4m for technical and further education institutions. These supplementary grants for increased costs indicate once again the divisive tactics of the Opposition which has made predictions outside this House and within it that these grants would not be made. Naturally, such predictions have concerned teachers, academic staff and educational institutions. The Opposition has been irresponsible in its predictions which are once again completely unfounded. 
The second Bill- States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill- provides for the payment of grants to the States for government and nongovernment schools in 1978- the first year of the 1978 to 1980 rolling triennium. In addition, the Bill adjusts grants for 1977 in respect of cost increases. The Government announced in June this year that it would provide for expenditure in 1978 of $57 lm, at December 1976 prices, for government school programs, non-government schools programs and joint programs through the Schools Commission. The Commission's report was tabled in the Parliament in September. The Government recently announced its acceptance of the Commission's recommended allocations for 1978 consistent with those guidelines. 
The Bill provides for the continuation of all existing programs for government and nongovernment schools. In short, they are: The general resources programs- general recurrent grants, including funds for child migrant and multicultural education, emergency aids for nongovernment schools and capital grants; specific purpose programs- disadvantaged schools and schools in disadvantaged country areas, special education for handicapped children, including children living in institutions, services and development including education centres and, of course, other special projects. In line with normal practice the non-government schools general recurrent program also includes final provision for cost analysis to the end of 1977. The additional cost of these adjustments alone is some $22m. 
In indicating the National Country Party's support for this legislation, I must make some comment about the representations I have had over past months in relation to education funding and the Government's attitude to the Schools Commission. Do not let us forget that in August 1975 the Australian Labor Party made massive cutbacks through the four education commissions which totalled some $105m. In these areas expenditure on universities was reduced by $21m, expenditure on advanced colleges was reduced by $32m and, at a time of record increases in unemployment as a result of gross economic mismanagement, there was a $9m reduction in expenditure in the field of technical and further education. In the schools area, funds were reduced by $43m. In the area of capital works an incredible decision was made to reduce spending on the construction of urgent school buildings by some $85m. 
That is the record of the Labor Party- a record of cutbacks unequalled in the history of the Federal Government. It then threw aside the system of triennial funding, a means of planning that had resulted in real progress, strict administration and correct management procedures. This action set back education planning and created chaos in the system. Then the Labor Party froze student allowances, even those that had been set at the June 1 974 cost of living indexes. 
What have we accomplished in this area of assistance to students since we have been in government? On 17 August 1977, we announced details of increased allowances and the relaxation of the means test for the Commonwealth's schemes of assistance to students. In 1978, more than 167,000 students are expected to benefit from the Government's education assistance schemes. This growth in student numbers, combined with increases in allowances for 1977, has resulted in a large increase in funds allocated for direct payment to students. 
In considering allowances for 1978, the Government has had to balance economic restraint with its concern that students should not suffer hardship. Changes have therefore been directed to students whose needs were assessed to be the greatest. These included students who must live away from home to continue their education, students who were self-supporting and students who had the responsibility to support dependants. I believe that these students are affected the most by rising costs. Allowances for these groups will be increased as from 1 January 1978. Total expenditure under the schemes in 1977-78 is some $224.7m, or an increase of $37.8m compared with the expenditure for 1976-77. 
Much has been said about the continuing independence of the Schools Commission. Our Government will ensure that the Commission can continue to study and report on the needs of our schools area, as it sees them, and importantly to advise the Government on the pattern and priorities for expenditure of an already determined level of funds. Surely neither the Australian Labor Party nor anyone else in our community is suggesting that government must accept and implement necessarily in total all recommendations or appropriations made by government advisory bodies. Their role is to establish the needs and priorities. The Government's role in both an economic sense and a social sense, is to set the priorities within the parameters of national needs and budgetary restraints. I believe the Government is doing so. It is ensuring that the best possible education standards for all Australian children apply, whether they attend government or non-government schools. The Liberal-National Country Party Government has introduced new policies both for government and non-government schools. 
Federal funding for schools comes from two distinct sources. Firstly, there are the direct grants through the Schools Commission programs. Under these programs we have seen a 2 per cent in real growth in 1977. The base level grants are to be consolidated at the same level for 1977-78. The substantially increased general revenue funding made available to the States through the federalism tax sharing policies is the second source. This funding has been increased by 17 per cent for the current financial year, allowing for real growth. It is not necessary to take my word for the statement. We need look  only at what was said in the recent Schools Commission report. That report outlines very significant improvements in resources available in government schools. It states: 
Resources in most government schools systems are about to reach or have already reached the improvement targets set. 
It reveals that four States-Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania- have already reached the primary school targets set for 1980. The other two States are progressing towards targets at a faster than planned rate. In the secondary schools area three States- Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia- have reached their targets set for achievement by 1 982. Tasmania is moving faster than the planned rate. The other two States- New South Wales and Queensland- are maintaining the planned rate of growth. Three secondary government systemsVictoria, South Australia and Western Australia- and one primary system, Tasmania, are operating at approximately the same standard as level 2 non-government schools. It is the second highest level in the Schools Commission's categories of resource usage. The report adds: 
States have continued to improve their own allocations for recurrent purposes in recent years. 
It stresses that the States have increased their education spending beyond the levels necessary for maintenance of effort. In fact the States have been able to allocate a greater proportion of their total budgets to education. In 1975-76 the States' recurrent expenditure on education was $ 1,967m. In 1976-77 the total was $2,241.5m. This was an increase in money terms in the first year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government of $2 74.3m or 13.9 per cent. Education's total share of State budgets in that period increased from 28.4 per cent to 29.4 per cent, a gain of $75m compared with normal maintenance of effort. This demonstrates the success of the Federal Government's tax-sharing policies. In 1976-77 all States were able to balance their budgets and to make substantial tax cuts, demonstrating their enhanced capacity to increase funding on education and on other programs. The 1977-78 budgets show a further strengthening of these trends. 
This year the Liberal-National Party Government took the following additional initiatives: Extension of the disadvantaged schools concept to country areas, a $3.5m joint government/nongovernment schools scheme; and a $lm joint funding program for additional education assistance to children in residential institutions. Recurrent funding for government schools is derived on the basis of 85 per cent from State revenues  and 15 per cent from Schools Commission resources. This illustrates the importance of the federalism general revenue funding to State education budgets. The Schools Commission report shows that the resources gap between government and non-government schools widened in the period from 1972 to 1976. In 1976 nongovernment primary schools were operating at a level 28 per cent below that of government schools, a decline of 5 per cent since 1972. Nongovernment secondary schools were 15 per cent below government schools, a decline of 2 per cent. By way of some measure of partial rectification of this imbalance, the Commonwealth Government has initiated the following policies: The percentage linkage of per capita grants to the average cost of a student in state schools; emergency aid of up to $844,000 to schools in temporary financial difficulties; capital assistance for non-government boarding schools; a loans guarantee scheme; advance offers of building grants to enable projects to be commenced sooner than originally scheduled; the provision of $1.9m as additional funds to level 6 schools; and minor increases in per capita grants to all six levels. 
I make one further point, and that is the need to break down barriers between technical education, further education and tertiary education. I believe we must develop the concept of postsecondary education so that we can provide real interchange between levels of education for students and other people. An examination is needed to ensure an adequate and long-term benefit from rationalisation so that this can take place between the tertiary sector and the technical sector. Importantly, the technical sector needs to gain a degree of autonomy from State systems. Some local control and independence are essential. This Government has committed itself to the expansion and the provision of and an impetus to all sectors of education. However, we cannot tolerate a continuation of competing requirements for the sake of empire building, with the duplication of resources, particularly as it occurs in universities and in the colleges of advanced education area. This is to the detriment of primary, secondary and technical students and their facilities. 
The National Country Party supports these Bills and gives the assurance that education has the highest priority in our policy in terms of development and implementation. We want a balanced development of the total system to continue so that we can meet the needs of all people in rural and urban areas to recognise their full potential and expectations. I am quite sure that all members of my party will join me when I express gratitude for the tremendous contribution that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has made in the whole realm of education. I believe it has been most outstanding. I believe his retirement will be a great loss to this Parliament. It is a pity that his party did not recognise as fully as it should have the outstanding quality of this man's abilities. 
-I rise tonight to seek this Government's intervention in the sale of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd at Brooklyn, Victoria. I do this in an attempt to negotiate alternative arrangements that would fully protect 10,000 primary producer shareholders and to ensure that the producers are able to exercise some influence in their industry. 
This co-operative was placed into receivership in June 1975. Since that time it has traded successfully. This has been achieved by contract killing arrangements which have seen a $5m trading surplus.  (Quorum formed).  As well as this $5m trading surplus, there have been payments of some $460,000 on interest commitments and devaluation differential payments with an additional $259,000 being used to upgrade the works. Despite this and a reasonable certainty of an increasing upturn in the meat industry, a tender by Protean (Holdings) Ltd of $ 10.25m has been accepted for an abattoir whose rebuilding value would exceed $30m. It was the Australian Industry Development Corporation which in 1975, kept this business intact. However, it is the AIDC, which was established in 1970 to encourage the development of Australian industry, that has recommended that this tender be accepted and secured creditors be paid in full. The AIDC, as the major creditor, has recommended this action based on its judgment that it would be a sound commercial practice. However, I contend that the AIDC must bear major responsibility for the now financial position of CF&amp;G for the following reasons: Firstly, it insisted that the administrator,  Mr Smart,  be given extraordinary powers over the cooperative's management to the extent that he was in fact and in law the virtual dictator of the entire enterprise thus enabling him, without the knowledge of directors, to make from the cooperative 's cash funds loans totalling nearly $2m to certain business enterprises which are now insolvent. This loss of $2m was largely responsible for the appointment of the receiver in 1 975. 
The AIDC also appointed watch-dogs who were supposed to keep check on  Mr Smart  and his management of the co-operative but they failed to do so. The AIDC also encouraged  Mr Smart  to embark upon a costly and uneconomic expansion of the co-operative's activities. This was financed largely by massive loans from the AIDC at high interest rates. Having thus materially contributed to the financial disaster into which the Society was plunged in 1 975 the AIDC has now washed its hands of the whole matter and by exercising its power under its mortgage is now going to recoup its money at the expense of completely destroying a producer's co-operative. These details have been submitted to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In discussions with the AIDC I have tried to put forward a scheme of arrangements which would assist this co-operative to continue to operate. I seek to impress upon this House the need for this Government to use any powers open to it to assist the AIDC in arranging the financial assistance necessary to save the CF&amp;G co-operative from disintegration. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will be aware of a growing concern in western Victoria about an issue that affects both his electorate of Wannon and my electorate of Mallee. I refer to the announced closure of the Balmoral railway line connecting the wheatlands of north-western Victoria to the deep sea port of Portland. Has the Prime Minister seen a recent statement by the  Chairman  of the Victorian Grain Elevators Board to the effect that the  Chairman  favours the upgrading of this line and that the Commonwealth be asked to participate? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I congratulate you on your reappointment as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees. I hope that you will convey to the  Speaker  my congratulations and the congratulations of my constituents in the electorate of Mallee upon his re-appointment and also upon the honour bestowed on him by  Her  Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II. I should also like you to convey to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  my congratulations on his elevation to the high office of  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I know that he will serve in those positions with tolerance and ability. Further, I should like to pay a special tribute to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who served this nation so well and for so long as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. In fact he created a record service in that position. 
This Parliament has also seen the election of several new parliamentary representatives. I have no doubt that they will make a valuable contribution to the affairs of our nation and will prove to be worthy representatives of our people. I congratulate those new members who have already spoken in this debate but I think it would be true to say that many of them have been quite provocative in their maiden speeches. They cannot expect in the future the sort of treatment they received when making their maiden speeches. Traditionally, such speeches are heard in silence. One or two of them have also been a little bit short on for facts. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  brought up the issue of roads. I point out to him that in the last term of the Labor Government it provided $4m for rural local roads right throughout the whole of Australia. This year the Liberal-National Country Party Government has made an appropriation of $19m for this particular section of roadworks alone. 
As a result of the recent redistribution, I now find myself the representative of an expanded Mallee electorate which now includes some 23,000 constituents from the former Wimmera electorate. I look forward to the challenge of now representing an area which includes the vast cereal growing regions of western and northwestern Victoria- 58,000 square kilometres of diverse agricultural production and three cities with many vital towns and communities. I must, however, express my concern that rural people are being further disadvantaged by the erosion of their political representation. The loss of the Wimmera electorate from the National Parliament and the forced retirement of its member, Bob King, is a tragedy. 
The Wimmera electorate was created in 1 90 1 and has been represented by only eight men. Percy Stewart, Hugh McClelland, Alexander Wilson and Bill Lawrence are all remembered for their diverse achievements and their effectiveness in their support for rural people.  Sir Winton  Turnbull, my predecessor in Mallee for 24 years, was also the member for Wimmera from 1946 to 1949 until a redistribution at that time saw the creation of the new Mallee electorate. 
Robert Shannon King served the Wimmera people for 19 years. His political career was not easy in that he faced three-cornered or fourcornered contests on most occasions. An indication of the support he received and the respect in which he was held is best gauged by the fact that his worst vote was received during the first election he contested and the best vote he received was at the last election he contested in 1975. 
Bob King has given a lifetime of service and has been distinguished in many areas. He was a member of the State Council of the then Country Party and served on many parliamentary delegations and committees. He has made a significant contribution to agriculture and in 1971, was appointed Assistant Minister to the Minister for Primary Industry. He served Australia by enlisting in 1940 in the Second 24th Battalion and by going to the Middle East, Tobruk and New Guinea, during which time he was severely wounded. The loss of Bob King, and particularly the loss of the Wimmera electorate, is of real concern for rural Australia. Politicians expect to have some difficulty in contests with other political opponents but to be defeated by the distribution commissioners is a bitter pill. This Parliament should be concerned about the erosion of rural representation. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is concerned because he recognises that, with the potential of the Mallee electorate and its current absorption of half the former Wimmera electorate, any further redistribution may result in one electorate in western Victoria, extending from Mildura to the sea, which could well leave him without a political home. 
This Parliament will have to give considerable thought to agricultural policy in a broader context than that given in the few paragraphs espoused in the Governor-General's address. In earlier debate my colleagues, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  spoke about the difficulties facing many of our specialists rural industries, particularly the dairy and the horticultural industries. However, these problems extend over the broad gamut of rural industry in general. The contribution of agriculture to the growth of the economy is undergoing vast changes. During the early 1970s several major shocks occurred which have had, and are still having, a profound effect upon agriculture throughout the world. It is pretty obvious that the rate of productivity growth in agriculture has begun to decline; thus the number of people fed per farmer and per acre has levelled off. 
It appears that there will be few major scientific breakthroughs in crop or livestock genetics, in fertiliser response or in pest control. Attempts made over the past years in Australia and throughout the world to divide the economic pie more evenly have led to an increase in inflation. The economy and especially agriculture have become more closely integrated with the world economy. Attempts at agricultural policy formation are frequently similar to a leaky roof: Just when you get a bucket under one drop, another drop begins. That is not by design, but it does indicate the extreme difficulties faced in formulating any long term agricultural policy in industries which depend almost wholly on world demands and economy. 
The experiences during the early part of the 1970s have demonstrated also just how fickle the consumer and, for that matter, the world population is. We remember when the last bushel of grain had hardly been removed from the surplus storage bins throughout the world when everyone became concerned about the imminent food shortages. Old theories about changing climate, population growths, excess in consumption and so on, had all been cleared away in a very short time. During the post-war era agricultural economists attributed the farm problem first to the loss of foreign markets and then to a slack domestic demand. 
However, a large part of the problem came from the technical revolution in farming. Australian primary producers have pursued at full speed the infusion of new technology which has resulted in more output per man, per acre and per unit of capital. That, of course, occurred to a very similar degree throughout the world. But farmers as a whole did not reap the full benefits from new technology. The Australian consumer and foreign buyers got more and better food at relatively lower prices. Meanwhile, the economy of our country boomed. Full employment at that time prevailed and generally farmers prospered in line with the rest of our society. Over recent years our agricultural policy in this country has grown out of changing economic conditions dictated by overseas markets. We have seen ourselves priced out of the world market and we have denied ourselves some growth. Artificially high prices have speeded up the adoption of new technology. Increased yields have resulted, in Australia, in some production restrictions. There was throughout most industries, however, and there still is, an unwillingness to accept supply controls. The results are surpluses which tend to stabilise the price at the support level. Farm benefit programs have tended to profit large producers disproportionately. The holding of farm prices above competitive levels has tended to bring about an increase in production costs, particularly in land values. 
I shall discuss very briefly one or two of these points, because I believe they will be critical in the formation of future agricultural policy in Australia. The first point is that of production control. Critical questions which need to be answered are, for example, whether the Government should control the quantity of agricultural production and whether those controls should be voluntary or mandatory. Some people contend that the days of over-production have passed. Production controls have been attempted but the result has always been that the acreage quickly shifts from the production of one commodity to another, thus transferring the surplus. Any successful program for production control will be recognised as that resulting in higher prices for both producers and consumers, and that is connected with a possible reduction of export and government costs. One thing which is certain is that any type of price support scheme which does not have production control could be disastrous. Lack of an effective production control technique has been the basis of the shortcomings of most agricultural policies. Chances are that it will also be the major problem with any future programs. 
Crop insurance and disaster payments are also areas that need detailed government consideration. A number of natural disasters during recent years have meant that crops planted by farmers have been destroyed well before harvest. Many producers in Victoria in the last season suffered severe crop losses. Those engaged in the vine fruit industry suffered hail damage to their crops, vegetable growers suffered frost damage to their plantings, and farmers in other regions, particularly in Gippsland, suffered severe fire damage to their undertakings. The central question is whether any schemes can provide protection or whether private insurance companies should be encouraged to do so. Perhaps no part of the present farm law will be more difficult to resolve. An alternative that should be considered is that of the producer and government sharing the cost of an insurance program. Most likely the taxpayer will be asked to pick up a portion of the risk in exchange for an adequate food supply. 
Of considerable interest in my electorate, which is one of the largest grain producing electorates in Australia, is the matter of grain reserves. The questions being asked are whether we should support a world stockpile of food for times of disaster and whether that reserve should be under the control of the producers or of governments. Proponents of the proposition that reserves should be held maintain that such reserves will ensure adequate surpluses for domestic needs, help stabilise prices, reduce price and income fluctuations for producers, help stabilise lifestock and poultry industries, facilitate export and trade, and provide for domestic and foreign food assistance programs. However, opponents of the scheme maintain that any reserves of grain will distort market signals and depress farm prices. In other areas they could well discourage other countries from holding reserves, they could be manipulated for political benefit, or they could cost too much to manage and hold. It does appear that many world administrations publicly favour holding some reserves, and that will be a major consideration for the Australian Government within the next 12 months. 
Several kinds of major conclusions seem to stand out as having implications for Australian agriculture and as being related to the changing structure of our Australian agricultural scene and our producers. Production and marketing of most agricultural products including the major ones in trade, are broad based and reasonably competitive. The grain export industry is probably relatively efficient and aggressive, with strong incentives to operate on a large volume basis. So, the structure of the agricultural industry, as measured by its degree of concentration, does not appear likely to generate major impacts on Australia's agricultural export trade. Secondly, the agricultural production sector- particularly those farms engaged in the production of most large volume export crops- has become highly labour efficient. This structural change is the result of high per unit labour costs, expanded off-farm employment opportunities and the availability of labour-efficient production technology. Clearly, these factors are inter-related and have resulted in shifts to the use of labourefficient technology and to the production of labour-efficient crops. Moreover, incentives exist for even further shifts in these directions. In this area one can point to investment allowances and to recent changes to rural award rates. 
Thirdly, the use of petrochemical inputs has become intensive in several labour-efficient highvolume export crops. Also, the energy content in chemical fertilisers and pesticides is high.  Major increases  in energy prices, or substantial constraints on the use of petrochemical inputs, generally could generate very substantial increases in the cost structure with resulting shifts in the supply. The impact of higher energy prices will be particularly great. If, for example, energy prices to the Australian farmers increased not only on an absolute basis but also relative to those for competitive producers in other countries it could be quite disastrous on the Australian scene. So, more than any other structural change in agriculture, the move to heavy dependency on the petrochemical industry to underpin the production of major export commodities stands out as one of our major issues. 
The possibility of higher prices for energy and inputs with high energy contents and of shortages of petrochemical inputs point up the severe vulnerability of several major export commodities. It is to this third area- that of the importance of fuel costs to the future viability of exportproducing industries- that I direct some final comments in this debate. Our Government is now in the process of implementing a petroleum price subsidisation scheme - 
-That is right. As the honourable member for Darling Downs reminds me, the fuel equalisation scheme, as we knew it for so many years, was removed by the former Labor Government. I only hope, when the Bill concerning this matter is brought into the House in the near future, I will have an opportunity to speak to it. The scheme we will be introducing will have a significant impact on reducing fuel costs to the end user in our more isolated areas. However, I believe that our Government will have to expand further incentives to our exporting industries. Such protection will be essential for several reasons. Firstly the rural sector uses 20 per cent of the total refined petroleum product. It is also heavily dependent on the transport industry which uses 22 per cent of that product. It is essential that action be taken to isolate these export orientated industries from what will be a general thrust towards world parity prices. Secondly, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics statistics indicate that beef, fruit and dairying industries in particular are under extreme cost pressures from petrochemical inputs. Thirdly, alternative energy resources will be minimal for agriculture. Fourthly, agricultural trends for reasons outside the control of these industries have been towards capital intensification so that increased productivity has countered off-farm prices. Fifthly, the balance of payments created by the agricultural sector will be essential to pay for the increased importation of crude oil. 
This House will be aware that our two major competitors in agricultural trade, the United States of America and Canada, have an on-farm price of automotive distillate and gasoline well below the Australian price even though the cost of their crude oil is more expensive. It is almost twice as expensive as in Australia. I urge the Government therefore to move on the rationalisation of distribution and major inefficiencies in petrol retailing generally and to come towards excise rebating or taxation deductions for those industries dependent on petroleum fuel for their production. I support the motion moved by the two Government supporters, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  in reply to the Governor-General's Address at the opening of the Thirty-First Parliament on 21 February this year. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of allegations made in another place last evening of malpractice in the Australian meat export industry? Can he inform the House whether there is any substance to these allegations? 

 Mr SINCLAIR I have read a statement made in the other chamber by  Senator Primmer  in which he makes very serious allegations about a number of purported malpractices in Australia's export industries. Not unnaturally, these are of concern not just in the administration of my Department but also in maintaining Australia's very high reputation abroad, in terms of both the quality of our product and the standard of inspection that is effected, in order to ensure that the product meets the general description that is given to it and, of course, meets the standards that we necessarily impose on all our exports. The honourable senator made a number of specific allegations, in particular one regarding investigations made by the Commonwealth Police. These flowed from some allegations made in a wild way last year without specifics being mentioned. We managed to obtain some details. As a result, about the middle of last year- on 2 1 June, to be precise- my Department requested the Commonwealth Police to commence an investigation. As a result of that investigation Acting Chief Superintendent R. H. Gillespie, the Officer in Charge of the District of Victoria, wrote to the Regional Director of my 
Department in Victoria.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave of the House to have a copy of that letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

I rise to support the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill. I am quite sure that all members of the coalition parties will agree that no greater imbalance could exist than that which is seen in the huge disparity in prices of petroleum products between rural areas of the nation and metropolitan areas. Without expanding any economic reasons, a substantial case can be advanced on social equality grounds for reintroducing this price equalisation scheme. Acting on the Coombs task force report, the Australian Labor Party Government destroyed the petroleum products subsidy scheme that had been introduced by a coalition government in 1965-66. That action has resulted in increasing the cost of fuel by up to 35c a gallon above the price paid in metropolitan regions of Australia. It has resulted in significantly increasing the input costs of our rural sector and the transport industry on which the productive industries so heavily depend. The rural sector uses 19.5 per cent of the total refined petroleum produced while the transport sector uses 21.3 percent. 
The purpose of the former petroleum subsidy was simply to reduce the fuel prices in nonmetropolitan areas to levels closer to city prices. The scheme incorporated an arrangement whereby the Government agreed to pay inland transportation costs in excess of 3.3c a gallon. The primary purpose of this Bill is to reduce the prices paid for certain petroleum products by consumers in country areas throughout Australia. Products that will be covered by this scheme are motor spirit, power kerosene, automotive distillate and aviation fuels. This scheme will subsidise freight differentials involved in transporting eligible petroleum products from refining ports and seaboard terminals to country sale points. These freight costs constitute a substantial element of the relatively high prices paid by rural consumers in the more remote areas for various petroleum products. The proposed scheme will subsidise country freight differentials to the extent that country consumers of products covered by the scheme will pay a price which includes no more than 4c per gallon of the transport costs. The program is to operate by means of grants made by the Commonwealth to the State governments pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. The freight differentials to be subsidised are based on costs submitted by individual oil companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal and accepted by that Tribunal. Rates of subsidy are to be calculated by deducting from these differentials that part of the freight cost to be borne by consumers, namely, 4c per gallon or approximately 0.9c per litre. 
The previous scheme was terminated by ministerial action in 1974. That is the reason why our Government has now introduced a clause into this Bill which will not allow this to happen again. It will now require action in the two Houses of this Parliament to terminate the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Act. The Government considers that a scheme of such great significance to rural consumers of petroleum products should not be terminated by ministerial action alone but only by its reference to the Parliament. Accordingly this Bill before the House provides that except as authorised by resolution of each House of the Parliament the Minister shall not revoke or otherwise terminate the operation of this scheme. It should be appreciated that the proposed Australia-wide scheme is directed solely to subsidising freight costs in excess of 4c per gallon. Therefore, it will have no effect on the prices of petroleum in the metropolitan areas and other areas where freight differentials do not exceed the 4c per gallon subsidy margin. 
The subsidy scheme will benefit substantially large numbers of Australia's rural citizens whose economic activities and general well-being are so heavily dependent on the availability of reasonably priced transport and machinery fuels. I think it is important that we recognise that this Bill is only one part of the policy of this Government and future action it may wish to undertake in relation to the oil industry. It should also be understood that this measure will assist all users of petroleum products in rural areas where a 4c per gallon freight cost is exceeded. The benefit will be felt by primary producers, business people, transport operators, people using their vehicles for pleasure and of course the many tourists who come into our rural communities. 
I think it is fair to admit that the previous scheme was, and possibly this scheme is, open to criticism on several grounds. Firstly, the transportation costs on which subsidies are based are in fact supplied by the oil companies themselves. Although in the past there were several small reviews associated with changes in the distribution systems, the overall subsidy data was initially determined in 1965 and reviewed only twice- in 1969 and in 1973. I believe that the data was established on the basis of the four lowest company quotations of cost. Unfortunately when the previous scheme was established it became apparent that the companies did not possess accurate cost data and the overall subsidy structure may therefore be questioned. Secondly, the subsidy then and now was based on only inland transportation costs rather than total costs. At that time there were only 39 bulk storage facilities on the Australian cost. Deliveries to these facilities were not subject to subsidy largely because the oil companies themselves charged the same price at these coastal bulk storage facilities as at metropolitan ports. This is somewhat anomalous since obviously major costs are associated with the delivery of fuel from refineries to depots such as Geraldton, Cape Lambert and Broome on the Western Australian coast and similar ports in Queensland such as Cairns, Townsville and Port Alma. However, because these costs were not subsidised, whereas inland delivery costs were, the oil companies may have been and I am sure were encouraged to use less efficient coastal delivery routes. Certainly one could question the overall pricing structure, but it was far from simple to determine the realistic cost figures. 
The third criticism that could be made is that, assuming that the cost data supplied by the companies was correct, it is far from certain whether the costs were necessarily incurred. Since transportation costs of fuel are closely related to the quantity transported, I am certain that the subsidy scheme was supporting an inefficient distribution system because it gave no incentive to oil companies to reduce costs of distribution. Of course, as I have already explained, basically the same argument applies to the present scheme. 
Finally, the previous scheme may well be criticised on the grounds that it dealt only with transportation costs. The overall price structure was not analysed to determine whether the presubsidy local prices were justified. The mere existence of higher transportation costs certainly does not justify the existence of a price differential because in some cases the higher transport costs might be offset by lower retailing costs. 
It is certain that the rural consumers throughout Australia today are being charged excessive fuel prices. The need to scrutinise the total distribution system is apparent from an analysis of direct sale costs. Unfortunately a dissection of marketing costs in the rural and urban areas is not available but I have data from different wholesale markets as they stood in 1972. 1 think we can all appreciate that prices have increased substantially since then. However, at that time inland transportation costs to primary producers amounted to $12.42 per tonne or 4.1c a gallon, which is more than three times the average cost of supplying the overall retail network. However, analysis reveals that the combined costs of agents' commission, field representatives and installation in depots associated with supplying primary producers was $17.76 per tonne or 5.8c per gallon compared with the Australia wide figure of only $4.30. These figures alone indicate the excessive burden being carried by users of petroleum products in rural areas, particularly those isolated from distribution points and ports. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report on crude oil pricing stated that price rises will add significantly to the many difficulties currently being experienced by many Australian industries as major users of fuel whose ability to pass on cost increases is limited. These people will be affected most. Our Government has already given incentives for oil exploration. If we did not do this and if we did not seek to attract exploration and drilling companies back to Australia, we would shortly have been faced not only with higher price rises of the order of cents but also with rises that would double our fuel costs in a few years. Australia has been supplying up to 70 per cent of its annual oil usage. As this percentage has been decreasing expensive imports have been proportionately forcing our fuel costs higher. The advantages of being able to supply a major proportion of our oil needs was a direct result of our Government's policies. The loss of valuable technology and expertise and the fact that exploration companies are going away from Australia's shores to other countries are directly contributable to a total lack of understanding by the previous Labor Government in removing concessions and incentives from the industry. 
It is imperative that the Government take further positive action in line with the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. It is also imperative that this action allow the exploitation of our potential oil reserves. However, it is essential that Australians receive their petroleum products at the cheapest possible price. An international comparison of prices at the retail level would suggest that petrol is cheap in Australia. This is misleading as the Australian tax content of motor spirit is considerably less than that in other countries. For example, in France the price less tax and duties is 23.93c a gallon; in the United Kingdom it is 23.58c and in New Zealand it is 25.9c. However, in Melbourne the price ex-tax is 32.4c a gallon and in Sydney it is 32.1c a gallon. A major explanation of the differences in ex-tax prices probably lies in the cost of retailing. As was pointed out in the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum, released in the first part of 1975, at a time when Australian and New Zealand currency, tax and motor spirit prices were near parity, the cost in New Zealand of retailing to the motorist from service stations was 1 1.38 per cent of the ex-tax price of 56.2c a gallon. In Victoria it was 44 per cent of the ex-tax price of 65.4c a gallon and in New South Wales it was 42.8 per cent of the ex-tax price. 
Australian distribution costs are even more starkly highlighted by the following figures: In 1974 the approved retail margin in New South Wales was 10.9c a gallon to which, of course, had to be added any rental charge. This additional rental has been estimated at as much as 7c a gallon, with the result that the true retail margin in New South Wales is nearly 18c a gallon. In New Zealand the retail margin is only 6.3c a gallon- approximately 35 per cent of the New South Wales margin. Despite the high retail margins for the distributing of petrol in Australia, there is no evidence that excessive profits are being earned in retailing by the companies concerned, the lessees or independent retailers. This is because retail margins are accompanied by high distribution costs. Some years ago a form of trading developed in Australiathis was mentioned by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)-  through contracts in which dealers agreed to sell one brand of motor spirit only. As a direct consequence of this, the number of retail outlets increased from approximately 11,000 in 1951 to 21,000 in 1966. This trend has continued since. The proliferation of retail outlets is, I believe, largely responsible for the high cost of retail distribution in Australia. An analysis of marketing costs reveals that the cost of marketing through a 50,000 gallon a month station is only 62 per cent of the cost per gallon of selling through a 25,000 gallon per month station. It should therefore be possible to reduce prices by up to 10c per gallon if we ignore the effects of inflationary costs during a rationalisation process. Such rationalisation processes would also assist service station proprietors to improve their profitability which, in general terms, has become unrealistically low throughout Australia and, I believe, has created severe hardships for many retailers involved in the petroleum industry. 
The rural sector today is virtually dependent on petroleum fuels. Primary industry is export orientated to the extent that approximately 60 per cent of its produce is exported and it does not have the ability to pass on input costs. The whole trend of agriculture since the war has been towards capital intensification. The general lower standard of farm prices has been countered by increased productivity over the years to the extent that today the rural industries basically are dependent on petroleum fuels. The House will be aware that in the United States of America and Canada- our two major competitors in agricultural trade- the on-farm price of automotive distillate and gasoline is below the Australian on-farm price although the prices for crude oil in both countries is approximately twice the price of crude oil in Australia. This indicates that radical changes must be made to rationalise distribution and overcome major inefficiencies in petroleum retailing which would reduce both rural and urban costs. Incentives must be allowed to companies in the search to find and develop local potential. Rural people cannot be expected to produce the bulk of the nation's export earnings while being penalised for their geographical position. 
A noticeable trend towards decentralisation is developing. The growth of both Sydney and Melbourne is slowing and we in the Government have a basic responsibility to assist this trend. The Government clearly is giving energy and energy policy a high priority. Initiatives in respect of taxation, oil pricing, gas, uranium, investment and export controls represent a major effort in tackling our energy problems and opportunities but there is a long way to go yet. The refinement of technologies to extract, process and deliver energy from conventional sources must continue. Two examples of what is required in the Australian context are the technology to explore and to develop in off-shore deep water and new methods of oil recovery from deeper waters. 
The development of some of our nonconventional energy sources to the commercial stage appears to be just around the corner. Of these, coal liquefaction and solar energy promise some exciting prospects. We are investigating with West German industry the conversion of coal to oil in Australia. While this process holds some promise of commercial success we must examine other technologies for liquefaction which could contribute to our fuel needs later this century. In the past, Australia has been a world leader in solar energy technology but we need an increase in our research and development effort. The implementation of this measure, the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Amendment Bill, will have a significant impact on fuel costs for those who at present pay excessive penalties for their isolation. We will further reduce this penalty during the life of this Parliament by subsidising freight costs to within half a cent per litre of the average metropolitan price. I support this Bill and reject as nonsense the amendment moved by the Opposition. After all, it was the Opposition's action when in government which removed the equalisation scheme from our statutes in 1972. 
I am delighted and I know that my colleague the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  is also delighted that the Federal Government has announced its preparedness to assist the continued operation of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd's meatworks at Brooklyn. I, like the honorable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron),  acknowledge that I am a shareholder of this Co-operative and a holder of debenture stock in the company. The primary producers who provided some of the capital for the commencement of this Co-operative have indicated by their action then and their decisions now to continue that they are not in the slightest concerned about the return upon their investment, except in regard to having some influence upon the processing and manufacturing section of their industry. 
This works, which was established as a joint shareholder venture, provides the only continuing co-operative alternative to the meat slaughter arrangements in Victoria and, indeed, Australia. At a time when the marketing of meat is coming under increasing scrutiny it is essential that these alternatives be preserved. In circumstances where the works were operating profitably as a service it was inconceivable that the receivers found it necessary to offer the works for sale. 
The Brooklyn meat works is one of the largest and most modern in Australia. It is essential that it continues to operate in the overall interests of the industry on a profitable basis. On 8 February and again on 9 February I wrote to Cabinet Ministers, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  calling for their intervention and assistance in this matter. I wrote seeking the Government's intervention in the sale of the Cooperative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd at Brooklyn. I did this in an attempt to negotiate alternative arrangements that would protect fully 10,000 primary producer shareholders and to ensure that the producers were able to exercise some influence in their industry. 
This co-operative was placed into receivership in June 1975. Since that time it has traded successfully. This has been achieved by contract killing arrangements which have seen a $5m trading surplus. As well as this $5m surplus, there have been payments of $460,000 on interest commitments and devaluation differential payments with an additional $259,000 being used to continue to upgrade the works. Despite this and a reasonable certainty of an increasing upturn in the meat industry a tender by Protein (Holdings) Ltd of $ 10.25m had been accepted for an abattoir whose rebuilding value could well exceed $22m. It was the Australian Industry Development Corporation which, in 1975, kept this business intact However, it is the AIDC, which was established in 1970 to encourage the development of Australian industry, that recommended that this tender be accepted and secured creditors be paid in full. The AIDC, as the major creditor, has recommended this action based on its judgment that it would be a sound commercial practice. However, I contend that the AIDC must bear major responsibility for the present financial position of CF and G for the following reasons: It insisted that the administrator,  Mr Smart,  be given extraordinary powers over the co-operative's management to the extent that he was in fact and in law the virtual dictator of the entire enterprise thus enabling him, without the knowledge of directors, to make from the cooperative's cash funds loans totalling nearly $2m to certain business enterprises which are now insolvent. This loss of $2m was largely responsible for the appointment of the receiver in 1 975. 
The AIDC also appointed watchdogs who were supposed to keep check on  Mr Smart  and his management of the co-operative but they failed to do so. It has already been pointed out that  Mr Smart  as  chairman  of directors of Cooperative Farmers and Graziers caused cheques to be paid to Iken Holdings Pry Ltd, International Pacific Corporation Ltd, D. G. Landlands and Regal Publications Pty Ltd in breach of trust and in breach of his duty as  chairman  of directors of that society. The AIDC also encouraged  Mr Smart  to embark upon a costly and uneconomic expansion of the co-operative's activities. This was financed largely by massive loans from the AIDC at high interest rates. Having thus materially contributed to the financial disaster into which the society was plunged in 1975, the AIDC washed its hands of the whole matter and by exercising its power under its mortgage it was going to recoup its money at the expense of completely destroying a producers' co-operative. 
These details were submitted to the Prime Minister by me and by other honourable members and to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In discussions that I had with the AIDC I tried to put forward a scheme of arrangement which would assist this co-operative to continue to operate. I asked the Government to use any powers open to it to assist the AIDC in arranging the financial assistance necessary to save the CF and G co-operative from disintegration. I am now very happy that the Commonwealth offer involves the sharing of a guarantee up to an amount of money needed to ensure the continued effective commercial operation of the service works over the next five years. We appreciate that the Victorian Government has also now accepted its responsibilities to Victorian producers in a manner similar to that of the Commonwealth. The joint efforts of Commonwealth and State would seem a happy resolution to what would otherwise have been a tragic outcome of this very worthwhile endeavour. 
As stated in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  the purpose of this Bill is to authorise the giving of a guarantee of up to $4.5 m in respect of the repayment of the principal of a commercial borrowing of up to $9m for three years by Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd. As I have already pointed out, the Government of Victoria provides a similar guarantee of up to $4.5m. CF and G has arranged a borrowing of $9m for three years on satisfactory terms and conditions. The borrowing, together with other funds, will enable the creditors to be paid in full. The society will be required to enter into agreements with the Treasurer of the Commonwealth, the Treasurer of the Government of Victoria and the lender with respect to the proposed borrowing and the guarantees will be conditional upon approval of both governments of a management restructuring plan to be submitted by the society. These requirements are designed to safeguard the interests of the Commonwealth and Victorian governments. To that end there is a requirement in this Bill that officers of the Australian Public Service will have full access at all reasonable times to the financial accounts of the society when authorised in writing by the Commonwealth Minister for that purpose. 
CF and G has, I believe, met every requirement of this Bill and all matters relating to its future administration have been resolved. These in particular include changes at board level and in its continuity of operation. The amendment that has been moved on behalf of the Opposition contains one proposal with which I could have some sympathy. But I cannot understand how we at the Commonwealth level could pass a law in this Parliament directing a State government to carry out an investigation into the criminal aspects of the reasons as to why this company went into receivership. However, 1 must be critical of the Victorian Government's lack of action on the criminal aspects of this case. 
-As the honourable member says, it is irresponsible that the fraud squad was asked in 1976 to investigate the situation in regard to a misappropriation of funds from the agricultural marketing section of the Victorian Farmers Union but no action has since been taken. There are many things that one could say about matters affecting the marketing of meat in this country as they relate to a Bill such as we have before us. But I refrain from doing so because I believe it is most important that this Bill pass through both Houses of this Parliament today. Such a course of action will allow the Supreme Court proceedings to continue tomorrow in Melbourne in the confidence and knowledge of our Government's guarantees. I commend the Bill to the House and I congratulate the Government on its response to this issue. The passing of this Bill will confirm the view of 600 shareholders who were able to meet in Bendigo on 24 February with little prior notice that their interests and the interests of Victoria's meat producers are best served by stopping the proposed sale of this co-operative works. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. I refer to continuing efforts to implement new measures to improve drainage and salinity problems in the Murray Valley. I ask: What progress has been made in bringing the States together in a concerted attack on the impairment of water quality and other social and economic implications of river pollution to the Murray basin? Has the Victorian Government indicated its commitment to priorities for proposed works, particularly tubewells in the Sunraysia for salt interception? Has the Federal Government guaranteed funds to Victoria from the water resources program for these works? 
-I ask the Minister for Health whether he can advise the House when the Government will be able to introduce legislation giving effect to our election commitment to broaden the terms of the domiciliary nursing care benefit to include all eligible people over 1 6 years of age. 
1 do not wish to delay the House long in speaking to these Bills. They are important Bills even though they are purely mechanical. I associate my Party, the National Country Party, with them. We believe that the Schools Commission is an important independent authority essential for effective government action. I wish to make some general observations in relation to the Bills, the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill and the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill. The additional amounts appropriated in these Bills are provided to maintain the real level of grants approved by the Government in the light of variations of costs since adjustments were made in the Budget sittings of 1977 by providing the necessary supplementation for movements in costs between June 1977 and December 1977. 
For the purposes of schools and educational institutions in my electorate, I wish to mention briefly the amounts of supplementation we are making. In the tertiary education sector we are providing an additional $5m for universities, $4. 2m for colleges and $0.4m for technical and further education. These supplementations for the 1977 program will bring the total figure for universities in 1977 to $56 1.8m and $439.5m for colleges of advanced education and $85.4m for technical and further education. Additional amounts provided for 1978 are $28m for universities, $18m for colleges of advanced education and $3. 6m for technical and further education. The Bill provides an additional appropriation for schools of $5.6m for 1977 and $ 15.8m for 1978. These two amounts bring the 1977 and 1978 grants programs for schools in the States to $602. 8m and $626. 7m respectively. 
If there is one thing that these Bills show- I have spoken to similar Bills in earlier years- it is the enormous impact our Government's policies have had on inflation. In similar Bills two and three years ago the amounts of appropriations necessary to complete the annual programs were often in the vicinity of 20 per cent to 25 per cent in some areas of school activity. The amounts appropriated in these Bills suggest very much that the policies our Government is undertaking in the economic area are proving to be of great advantage in the effective spending of public and taxpayers' money for education. 
From the recent Schools' Commission Report the impact of two factors is fairly obvious; firstly, the importance of the initiatives undertaken by the Labor Government in its term of office and, secondly, the reduction in the growth of student population which has allowed the situation to be reached in which, generally speaking, the majority of government schools today are moving to a resources level which is as adequate as that recommended by the Karmel report. However, in the non-government schools area, particularly in the major section of that area, where 90 per cent of schools are in the Catholic system, resources are still well below an adequate level. The Schools Commission in its report has recognised this and has therefore recommended a 4 per cent increase in funding for government schools and an increase of S per cent in the nongovernment area. This was brought about mainly by two factors. I acknowledge the work of the Labor Government and particularly the work of perhaps its best Minister while in office, the Honourable Kim Beazley.  His  services were recognised by that Party by his banishment to the back bench in his later days in Parliament. 
We must recognise, as the Schools Commission report says, that the growth in student population in Government schools is now not as pressing as in previous years. The primary enrolment will decrease by about 1 .2 per cent during the triennium. Secondary enrolment will decline by about 1 per cent, resulting in an overall decline in enrolments of about 27,000 students. On the other side of the scale, needs are being generated by changes in our educational policies and demands. The report states: 
Educational policy changes in various States in recent years have had important implications for capital facilities, additional to those created by population growth and improvements in student-teacher ratios. 
I shall list the changes that have affected the needs of our educational system. Reduced class sizes in all States have generated more classes in each school. There has been a lowering in the age of school attendance. Most children in the States are starting earlier and also remaining longer at school. There is a vital community use of schools. In most of our States and Territories it is now the policy to encourage the use of school facilities by community groups. I am sure that this trend will continue. A very important change in relation to the needs of our schools is the demands of changing approaches to curriculum and teaching. New curriculum demands especially at primary school level today require facilities for arts, music, drama, languages, et cetera. Specialist teachers are also being provided. 
I must say that many schools, notably at primary level, lack the necessary buildings and equipment. Of course in the light of our present economic situation and particularly the unemployment difficulties, it is essential that career education and pre-vocational courses continue and expand within our schools. This of course creates an additional emphasis on the provision of facilities for pre-vocational courses and career guidance. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  mentioned that our Government is today placing important emphasis and a priority on spending in technical education. Of course as a result of this it is only natural that the expansion that has taken place over many years in the higher tertiary areas- in the universities and the colleges of advanced education- will come under some pressure, particularly in the area of capital facilities. 
I must mention one or two other aspects that I see as tremendous improvements in education, particularly as they apply to country areas. One problem that I see developing that is disadvantaging country students who wish, and have to go away for, tertiary education is in relation to the payment of the tertiary allowance. I do not think any person would dispute the need to have a means test applied to the tertiary allowance. But country students who in almost all situations have to leave their homes for tertiary education are finding that they are severely disadvantaged by the fact that a living away from home allowance is not available for their courses. This of course is tied to the tertiary education allowance and the loss of that allowance automatically means the loss of the living away from home allowance. This is proving to be an acute problem for country students. 
I must make mention of the special program that was started by our Government last year for disadvantage particularly as it applies to disadvantaged country schools. An amount of $4.24m was allocated specifically to allow country schools to involve themselves in community programs that would in some way advantage the immediate needs of their areas. I am well aware that a program in my area known as the Mallee track, operating in an area containing Ouyen, Murrayville, Sea Lake and Patchewollock, is proving to be of enormous benefit both to the immediate education programs of those students and through the innovation that it will bring about throughout the total education system in Australia. It has involved parents and teachers and the community outside the school as they have never been involved in education and it is proving, as I said, a great program. I believe it will be one that can be applied to many country areas throughout Australia. I am pleased that the Schools Commission has recommended in its report that the country disadvantaged program allocation be almost doubled to an amount of $8.48m which will mean an extension of this program throughout other country areas in Australia. The economic policies of our Government are today allowing the money that is spent in education to be effectively used to the benefit of students, their parents and ultimately to the benefit of our community. I know that my Party totally supports these two Bills. 
-I rise to record a tribute on behalf of my constituents in the Mallee electorate to the late  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies. On 20 December 1894, R. G. Menzies was born to his storekeeper parents, James and Kate Menzies in the rear of their shop in the small north-western Victorian town of Jeparit.  Sir Robert's  years in Jeparit were spent attending primary school at the small rural school where even in those early years his schoolmates today remember his aggressiveness at play and his ability and eagerness to participate in public discussion and debate. The influence of his family in developing an interest in and finally an ambition for a political career must have been significant.  His  father was a  president  of the local shire and ultimately became a member of the Legislative Assembly in Victoria, serving as the member for Lowan. One of his father's brothers also served in that Parliament.  Mr Sydney  Sampson, who was his mother's brother, also served from 1906 to 1919 as a member of the House of Representatives for the electorate of Wimmera, an electorate geographically identical to the electorate of Mallee that I now represent. 

 Sir Robert Menzies was Prime Minister of Australia during this nation's period of greatest growth and development. Political commentators and historians may wish to argue the effects of his influence upon the factors in this period but no one can deny his capacity of intellect and ingenuity and his effect on administrative stability. In these matters he has not been surpassed in Australian politics.  Sir Robert  Menzies has had, and will have, many monuments erected in his honour. But the most enduring monuments and achievements, however, will not be represented in granite or by plaques. The development of Canberra as the nations capital and the extension of Commonwealth responsibility into the field of education, particularly at the tertiary level, must rank as enduring policy achievements. 
On Tuesday, 16 May, the councillors and staff of the Dimboola Shire meeting that day in Jeparit adjourned to the Menzies memorial erected in 1966 by the community to honour this small town's famous son. In a short ceremony the community of today recognised a man of stature who became a great national figure and a world statesman. It recognised a lifetime of public service and the loyalty and personal sacrifice of this great man's wife and family. To Dame Pattie, her son and daughter and to  Sir Robert's  10 grandchildren, the people of the Mallee and the Wimmera express their sincere condolences. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for National Development, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Riverina. It concerns the need to carry out urgent salinity controls in the Murray Valley basin and the many proposals recommended to intercept saline flows. As it is essential that these works commence before the next irrigation season, has the Minister received any formal applications from the three States of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia, for assistance through the Federal Government's water resources program? 
What information can the Acting Prime Minister give the House about the prospects for an easing of the American restraints on beef imports? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The implications of increased fuel prices for country people, particularly those involved in essential transport services and productive industry, are serious. This applies particularly to people - 
-We are presently debating the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill. The Wheat Research Amendment Bill involves a change in the procedures for the appropriation of the Commonwealth's contribution to the wheat research scheme. Instead of the present procedures whereby the Commonwealth contribution is provided by an annual appropriation, this amendment provides that a special appropriation will be made under the Wheat Research Act itself. This change will bring the wheat research arrangements into line with the provisions in the more recently established rural research schemes. This amendment also ensures that moneys appropriated under the Act to meet approved expenditure do not exceed industry contribution by way of the wheat tax. The other Bill, the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill, increases the maximum rate of tax for research purposes on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board from 1 5c per tonne to 30c per tonne. 
The wheat research scheme has operated since 1957 and is one of a number of such national rural industry research schemes supported by the Commonwealth Government. It is the policy of this Government to provide grants to national rural industry research schemes on the basis of matching dollar for dollar expenditures from funds contributed by producers and raised by way of a levy on a national basis. The wheat tax is collected on deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board and is appropriated for expenditure on wheat research to the various State wheat research committees. The Commonwealth's contribution has been appropriated annually to finance research programs that are recommended by the Wheat Industry Research Council and approved by the Minister for Primary Industry. The industry itself participates in the allocation of funds through representation on a State committee structure and also on the Wheat Industry Research Council. As a member representing a majority of the grain producers in Victoria, I support both these Bills, but I emphasise the fact that the changes have been agreed to by the industry. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  suggested that the changes were made at the inclination of the Government. 
I would also like to make some comment about the value of research programs that are currently under way throughout Australia, but more particularly throughout the area that I represent. At the Victorian Wheat Research Institution at Horsham there has been an outstanding development in the recent release of two new wheat cultivars, kewell and kalkee. Both these wheats are now approved for growing in all districts of Victoria except the Mallee. Kewell is a soft grain and is suitable for the Australian standard white class. Its baking characteristics indicate that at appropriate protein levels it is suitable for the manufacture of bread and biscuits. Kewell is now regarded as a higher yielding alternative to zenith, which is presently grown in the Wimmera and the northern and southern districts of Victoria, and to olympic, which is grown in the north-east. The other new variety that has been released, kalkee, also has a soft grain and is resistant to all known races of rust in Australia. Although in normal years it does not out-yield other recommended or approved wheats, it does provide insurance against devastating losses from rust such as those which occurred in 1973. In Victoria, kalkee is the highest yielding of the cultivars which have soft grain and are resistant to all Australian rust races. 
One of the real problems in the cereal industry- this is particularly evident this year in the Mallee and Wimmera regions and no doubt throughout many other wheat growing regions in Australia- is the cereal cyst nematode. In 1977, the first wheat resistant to cereal cyst nematode was sown in a field experiment. The aim of this project was to isolate sources of resistance to the nematode in wheat, oats and barley and to use them in a breeding program. Back cross lines have been evaluated in various regional trials and I believe that they will provide a real impetus to the wheat industry in combating this pest. Also research on septoria, which is a form of leaf blotch and which has had a devastating effect on the wheat industry in certain years, has determined a life history of this disease in Victoria. Disease losses from this fungus in some years have reached a potential of 3 per cent, 20 per cent and 19 per cent in three years in succession in the Wimmera region, thereby establishing septoria as a serious disease in Australia 's grain producing areas. At the present time research is also being carried out at the Wheat Research Institute at Horsham on several new chemicals for controlling cereal smuts. The importance of this work was demonstrated recently when seed treated with benomyl selected a strain or stains of the bunt fungi which cannot be controlled by seed dressings currently available in Australia. As a result of this work an application by a commercial firm for the registration of benomyl as a seed dressing has been refused. 
Another important research project is a new integrated approach to research on phosphorus. We are all aware of the dramatic changes in the world economic environment and how these have led to substantial increases in the cost of the raw products for the manufacture of superphosphate. This cost increase, together with the limited supply from the traditional rock sources, has resulted in the situation where rocks of inferior quality can be considered to meet industrial demand. As the cost per unit of phosphate has increased at a greater rate than the return to the grower it is now even more important to optimise the rate of application of superphosphate in the whole farm situation. In the long term this research program aims to study the changes within and between major soil groups in phosphorous form and particularly to establish the relationship between fertiliser reversion and yield response. The program set out to establish quantitative relationships for phosphorous balance in a rotation including pasture, to follow the fate of applied fertiliser through the rotation and to establish the relative contributions to grain from fertiliser and residual phosphorous. It also sets out to examine the soil organic phosphorous input from crops such as wheat, and pasture. 
The diversity of research programs in the wheat industry has resulted in better and improved varieties of wheat for the various regions throughout Australia. It is essential that this continues. The Mallee is the largest single wheat producing region in Victoria and an ongoing wheat breeding project in this area is producing rust resistant wheat varieties which also possess high stable grain yield attributes and wide adaptions to semi-drought environments. These new species will also possess acceptable milling and baking qualities as well as a tolerance and resistance to wheat smut. A program is also being carried out in the Wimmera area in wheat breeding. It is basically directed towards the production of soft wheats. The functional use of such wheats is either bread making or biscuit or cake manufacture. Such programs also exist in an effort to improve barley and oat varieties. 
I believe it should be pointed out in discussion on these Bills that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, which represents the wheat industry, has requested that the maximum rate of tax specified in the Act be raised to 30c per tonne. While asking for the maximum rate to be raised the Federation has also sought an increase in the operative tax from the present level of 15c per tonne to 20c per tonne. In the three years since 1975 that the operative rate has been at the rate of 15c per tonne, wheat research expenditure from tax proceeds and from the Commonwealth's contribution has increased from $2. 53m in 1975-76 to $3.34m in 1977-78. It is estimated that expenditure this year will total some $3.32m. 
A viable research program is of extreme importance to the future of the wheat industry and I have no doubt that increased contributions made possible by this legislation will be helpful in sustaining the successful research effort within the wheat industry. Over the years this industry has been able to meet the challenges imposed on it from outside such as inflation produced cost increases, and the difficulties and complexities of world trade. These have been largely offset by increases in productivity. The wheat industry has benefited enormously from research that has produced improved pasture and grain producing varieties. It has benefited from major developments in the control of disease, pests and weeds. These Bills will ensure that the contribution by our research scientists and the. research institutions will continue. I support the Bills. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.34)- I join with the two previous speakers in supporting the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill. I am conscious of the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech told us that the purpose of the Wheat Tax Amendment Bill was to amend the Wheat Tax Act to increase the maximum rate of tax from 15c to 30c per tonne on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. The Minister has informed us that this has been done on the basis of the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the financing of rural research in Australia. He claimed that last year the Government reviewed and reaffirmed its policy of continuing to provide grants to national rural industries research schemes on the basis of matching dollar for dollar expenditure from funds contributed by producers and raised by a levy on a national basis. 
As a general principle I think this procedure has some merit. I think that the Government should assist those industries which are prepared to assist themselves, that is, if the majority of producers are in favour of the tax and are convinced that it is to their benefit. For this reason it is of some satisfaction to note that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, which represents the wheat industry, requested that the maximum rate of tax be raised to 30c per tonne and that when amending legislation was enacted there be an increase in the operative tax from 15c to 20c per tonne. The danger here, as I see it, is that the impression could be given that Australian wheatgrowers are firm believers in IAC reports and that they believe that the reports should be supported. Of course this is far from the truth as would be indicated from a report in the  Livestock and Grain Producer  of August 1978. In relation to the new stabilisation scheme suggested by the IAC the report states: 
The  President  of the LGPA,  Mr Milton  Taylor, said in Sydney on July 29 that the Association's Annual Conference in Sydney last month had totally rejected major aspects of the IAC draft report on wheat stabilisation. There is nothing in the final report handed down in Canberra this week to change the Association's attitude as determined by Conference,  Mr Taylor  said. 
In particular the Conference rejected the Commission's recommendation to free the domestic market to private traders, and to abolish an administered home consumption price. The Association is totally opposed to these recommendations, and it will continue to act through the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation in putting its views to the Federal Government.  Mr Taylor  said the LGPA welcomed the IAC recognition that the industry should be assisted by grant, not loan. 
The point I wish to make here is that whilst we recognise the value of IAC reports and the information they gather and supply to the Parliament, we should not adopt the practice of simply endorsing reports simply because they are brought down by the Industries Assistance Commission. We should have some debate on the report to see whether the industry is in favour of it because decision of the Industries Assistance Commission are sometimes damaging to the industry and they do not meet with the approval of producers. The benefits of the wheat research scheme which has operated since 1957 should be clear to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, to the Government and to the IAC. This is one of the reasons why the Australian Labor Party supports these amendments. We appreciate the value of research. Indeed we have done so since the Chifley Government introduced the first stabilisation plan for the wheat industry in 1948 which brought such benefits to that industry. Ever since that time we have believed that research should be an integral part of a stabilisation plan. Although the wheat research arrangements were not established under the Wheat Research Act until 1957 it is well known that much research was carried out previously on a farm to farm basis. 
However it must be recognised and appreciated that the system whereby the proceeds of wheat tax which is collected on deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board are used for wheat research by State wheat research committees is a much fairer and a much more efficient method of carrying out research. The practice of the Commonwealth matching on a dollar for dollar basis expenditure on funds contributed by the producer is one which I believe should be approved by both sides of this House. I believe that the matching by the Commonwealth on a dollar for dollar basis of the money contributed by the producer reflects this Parliament's understanding of the considerable personal effort, particularly in terms of manual labour, that the farmer puts into the success of his crop, which often requires him to work many hours a day and to work more strenuously than a person whom he may employ. 
To grow and market wheat is no small operation. Since entering this Parliament I have been confronted with many problems of the wheat grower, such as droughts, floods, bushfires, locust plagues, et cetera. I can assure the House that it is no easy task and, unless the farmer is well set up, it is a very wearying manual occupation. In my opinion the farmer-owner deserves every consideration and encouragement not only because of the financial risk but also because he has to keep up the important physical contribution that makes wheat farms viable and wheat crops successful. The maintenance of a sound research effort is important because of the productivity improvement benefits that it affords to the grower. It is also important to our interests as major wheat exporters competing on the world market where quality considerations are important to the buyers. 
I believe that most wheat growers are aware that they not only have to increase their yields in order to be viable but they also have to improve the quality of wheat produced so that export markets cannot only be won but they can also be maintained. Unfortunately the introduction of the wheat delivery quotas in 1969 led to some shift in grain production to coarse grain production and oil seed production as wheat plantings were curtailed. However, since 1974-75 the greatly increased quotas and, latterly, the elimination of the quota system have encouraged a swing back to wheat production. I think this shift is in the interests of the nation and in the interests of wheat growers. Therefore it was of some satisfaction to hear the Minister in his second reading speech inform the House that the improvement of yields absorbs the greatest amount of the research funds used under this scheme. 
He has told us that projects range from disease control, especially fungal diseases, to breeding for special characteristics, such as climate and disease tolerance. Of course in my large electorate there is a great variation in these problems and research into them is very important because what can be done in one area cannot be done with success in another area. The nutritional requirements in the various wheat growing soils also play another important part as do weed control and the assessment of yield losses arising from the prevalence of the weeds. The Minister in his second reading speech on this occasion provided much information on various aspects of research provided by the tax collection, as also did the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  Of course these factors vitally concern the wheat grower. The Minister spoke of wheat farm operations, such as optimal tillage. Of course in my electorate there is much debate about differences in the depth at which the soil should be worked, just as there is a very great difference of opinion with regard to fertiliser practices and their value in output as against the cost of input. As the Minister indicated, the wheat grower should be better advised on the type of specialised sowing and cultivation equipment for the soils in his area. 
Even after the crop is harvested the producer still has problems. Methods of storing and fumigating the harvested grain can still mean the difference between success and failure. I am pleased to note that the Industries Assistance Commission report on wheat stabilisation recognises this important fact. I quote from the IAC recommendation on pests and diseases, which appeared in the  Livestock and Grain Producer  of 3 1 August. It states: 
The Commission recommends that: an inquiry into grain pests be undertaken. This inquiry should investigate all grains and all transport, storage and handling facilities for grains, should identify the most effective ways of dealing with existing and potential problems, and should consider the nature and extent of any government assistance for the implementation of its recommendations; . . . 
I believe this is very important because, irrespective of what the grower does, at this point he could still lose out if all of these precautions are not taken. The recommendation continues:   all traders in wheat be licensed for the purpose of administering pest and disease controls. This would also facilitate the collection of the wheat research levy, the administration of any delivery quotas and the payment of assistance. 
When these recommendations have been carried out, I suggest that the Government look at the proposition that a retirement or superannuation scheme be provided for wheat growers. Many wheat growers in my electorate are now reaching the age when they find that it is difficult for them to keep producing. They cannot retire because they do not have the liquidity to do so. If a national superannuation scheme were implemented for wheat growers, I think that we would find that a lot of young men would be able to come into the industry and that others who have done most of the hard work over the years would leave the industry. I think it would be a benefit to the industry and also to the nation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister will be aware of proposals suggesting the application of an additional fuel levy to replace various road taxes. Has the Federal Government received submissions from any State governments on this matter which indicate their preparedness to forgo road maintenance taxes, motor registration or licensing fees in favour of a one-up tax? 
-I think we all remember that on 1 1 March 1974 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for inquiry and report the Australian dried fruit industry. It was set up to inquire into whether the Australian Government should provide financial assistance, whether it should be continued and whether it should assist in stabilising the returns to growers from dried vine fruit production beyond the season commencing 1 January 1975. If it found that those things should happen, it was to inquire into what the nature and extent of the assistance should be, as well as for what period of time any recommended assistance should be provided. The resulting extensive and costly inquiry is well remembered by most people within the industry. It probably requires no further comment, except to note that the Commission's recommendations could not be presented within the required 18 months. 
I shall just briefly mention what those recommendations were. Firstly, in the area of marketing, it was recommended that a two-pool entitlement scheme for the marketing of dried vine fruit be introduced. Secondly, in the adjustment area, it recommended that the provisions of the fruit growing reconstruction report be applied, that there be adjustment counselling, that there be concessional adjustment finance and that there be assistance for the removal of vines. 
Thirdly, the Commission said that the dried vine fruit stabilisation scheme should be extended until transactions relating to the 1977 crop had been finalised or until the two-pool entitlement scheme had been introduced but that the stabilisation scheme should not apply beyond the 1977 crop. These recommendations were not acceptable to the majority of members of the Australian Dried Fruit Board or its Federal Council. 
At the direction of the Federal Council in 1976 the recommendations were opposed on the following basis: Firstly, that the IAC report was incomplete in that it made no assessment of the effect of its recommendations on the wine industry; secondly, the inquiry did not include an indepth examination of export marketing. It was felt that insufficient information had been given on the ability of the Commonwealth to enforce a two-pool scheme or of the willingness of the State governments to implement complementary legislation to permit such a scheme to operate. In addition, it was felt that the time was inopportune for further retrenchments in the dried fruit producing areas. 
The Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Amendment Bill and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill receive my total support because, through consultation and agreement between the industry and the Government, I believe we have a scheme that will provide for the needs of the industry over the next three years. These Bills have some modifications to previous stabilisation schemes that applied in the seasons 1971 to 1976. A major change is that the arrangements are to apply to returns from dried sultanas only and not, as was the case in the past, to currants and raisins. Today the production of these two products is small in quantity. They are sold mainly on the domestic market. The Government, in agreeing with the request from the industry for exclusion from the arrangements for 1978-1980, has decided that this would not preclude their re-inclusion should a further scheme for stabilisation of dried vine fruits beyond 1980 be considered. 
The Government and the industry have also agreed that the base price for the 1 978 season, on a sweat box basis, will be $515 a tonne. This figure takes account of the fact that producers' prices have been rising, and it is also consistent with general market expectations. It is also 20 per cent higher than the base price for sultanas that applied under the stabilisation scheme for the 1976 season. For the 1979 and 1980 seasons, the base price is to be adjusted by the absolute amount of the net changes to the cash costs of growers and will, for the first time, include an imputed figure for the farm operators; labour as calculated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. This procedure is consistent with that presently being used to adjust the home consumption price of wheat. If the average seasonal return for sultanas is above the base price by $10 per tonne growers will, except when production does not exceed 50,000 tonnes, pay the excess into the sultana stabilisation fund, the applicable limit being $20 per tonne. At that level no industry contribution will be payable. If in a season a payment out of the stabilisation fund is due, and there is insufficient industry money in the fund, the Commonwealth will finance the payment to the extent necessary to raise the average return to the base price, less $ 10 per tonne. 
There are however, as has already been pointed out by previous speakers, two constraints in this legislation. First, there is to be a limit to the amount of Commonwealth contribution. The maximum contribution is to be $25 a tonne, an increase of only $2 over that for the previous scheme. Secondly, such contribution is to be limited, as against 75,000 tonnes previously, to an output not exceeding 60,000 tonnes. The maximum contribution to be made by the Commonwealth in any one season is therefore set at $1.5m. 
As was the case with the previous schemes, the maximum of grower contribution held in the sultana stabilisation fund will be $4m, and any surplus will be distributed to growers on a first in, first out basis. I am sure that the proposals set out in this Bill will give added confidence to the sultana producing industry in tackling the rapidly changing production and marketing situations which confront it. They provide some protection to sultana growers against a severe price downturn in world markets and, as I have mentioned, have the full support of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, whose membership includes about 98 per cent of dried fruit growers. 
The complementary Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill simply reduces, by 10,000 tonnes, to 50,000 tonnes, the figure as to the minimum quantity of sultanas to be received for packing in any of the seasons 1977, 1978, 1979 or 1980. The dried fruits industry has been going through substantial change and the continuance of stabilisation will permit further changes to be made with a reasonable degree of market assurance. However, we should look at the industry situation as it is at present. On the domestic market the average return from sales has followed an upward trend, from $483 a tonne for sultanas in 1970 to an estimated $852 in 1977. The domestic market usually takes from 22,000 to 24,000 tonnes a year. On the export market, producers' returns from dried vine fruits depend heavily on world prices, which vary from year to year. In the five seasons to 1977, exports of sultanas, as a proportion of production, ranged from 65 per cent to 74 per cent. There is no doubt that shortterm prospects exist for maintaining high average export prices for sultanas, which in 1977 brought approximately $892 a tonne. That was attributable mainly to world stocks, as a result of a small 1976 crop in California, and reduced supplies in other producing countries being relatively low. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  engage once again in a crystal ball gazing act concerning what he believed this Government might or might not do. I would point out to him that the people in the dried fruits areas well remember exactly what the Labor Government did when it was in office. We remember that its reaction to the Industries Assistance Commission's report on superphosphate was to remove the bounties. We remember that that Government reacted to the fuel equalisation scheme by removing its benefits to rural dwellers. Also, the honourable member omitted to recall that the Bill which we are now debating has been brought to bear as a result of the total agreement that has been reached, as a result of consultation, between the Government and the major section of the dried fruits industry. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  engaged in some discussion about the effects of recent situations in these areas as they related to hail damage. In any discussion of a Bill such as this one should make some mention of the hail disaster that occurred throughout Sunraysia on 4 October 1977. Some 640 properties were affected. Some were completely wiped out. Some 4,800 hectares were ruined and 12,500 tonnes of fruit could not be harvested. The net effect of this upon the growers was that a total loss of $ 1 2m was suffered. 
I pay a great tribute to the various sections of the Commonwealth Government and of the State government which assisted the growers to get through what was perhaps the most traumatic and disastrous period of their lives on their properties. I pay a special tribute to the officers of the Rural Finance Department who, through their understanding and work, have so far distributed in excess of $2m to growers affected by the disaster. The officers of the Department of Social Security and of the Commonwealth Employment Service also deserve considerable credit for their understanding of the situation and the fact that they were able to operate within the changes made to various parts of the welfare legislation, which for the first time enabled selfemployed persons to benefit in times of stress from the social welfare system. 
The insuring of horticultural crops has always been a very difficult problem, but the Australian dried fruits industry deserves great credit in that regard. One of the things that came out of this disaster was that it was able to negotiate with a large insurance company, and has now been able to underwrite an insurance scheme that, as long as it receives adequate support, will provide some sort of overall coverage for growers. Since the hailstorm the industry has explored several areas in an attempt to find a suitable hail insurance scheme. Attempts that were made by myself and other members of the industry to obtain government underwriting were unsuccessful. However, it has been possible to obtain, for a premium which is not beyond the finances of individual growers, insurance up to around a maximum of $ 1 m of claims in any one year. 
My information is that already some 16,000 hectares of dried fruits production in my electorate has, for the coming year, been covered by this scheme. It is also significant that this year the dried fruits industry can look forward to a continuation of the high prices that it has received in the last two seasons. These high prices have given a new confidence to the industry. This year already, as we are aware, some 50 per cent of the Californian crop has been damaged. Thus these high prices will continue. This is indicated by the fact that the competing countries of Turkey and Greece are presently holding back large quantities of their crops in anticipation of this world shortage and, therefore, increased prices. 
I am pleased that the Government rejected the IAC report brought down two years ago. I am pleased because I feel that the dried fruit industry has been very reasonable over the years in attempting to adjust by various measures to changing situations. In the Sunraysia district in my electorate and also in the Robinvale area, the industry has shown responsibility through diversifying into many other cash crops such as fresh vegetable production, avocados and almonds. Of course, there has been an expansion in the citrus industry, which has been perhaps at its most viable level over the last two or three years, thanks to a certain level of government assistance. 
I am sure that the areas that are under dried fruit production in Australia at present can look forward to a successful season, hopefully with two or three more to follow. Hopefully, despite the huge increase in costs caused by inflation, the price level will be better than it has ever been before in the history of the industry. I totally support the Bills, recognising that in the near future other legislation relating to the industry will have to be introduced, particularly in regard to equalisation and possibly in regard to the formation of a corporation to look at encompassing all areas of wine and dried grape production. I support this legislation. 
-First of all I should refer to the speech by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  I am sure that some of his colleagues could well have listened to some of the words of advice he issued on this occasion. I wish to refer to the Department of National Development, particularly the water resources program administered through that Department. In the past few months in my electorate and along the Murray Valley basin we have seen many successful attempts by various groups and organisations which, through cooperation and understanding, have combated the parochialism that has existed in dealing with the problems of the Murray Valley for many years. I believe that the nettle must now be grasped by governments, both Federal and State. They should forget about political expediency and be initiators rather than reactionaries and make genuine efforts to preserve the Murray River for future generations. 
The Murray River system is presently being used well beyond its capacity. We are all aware that many of the problems of the system today are the predictable consequences of controlling natural hydrological processes. Land salinisation, water logging, river bank erosion and impairment of river quality with its associated social and economic implications are some of the results of these conflicts in water and associated land use. Priorities have been given and must continue to be given to works and measures which have as their main objective the consolidation of existing urban and rural settlements, and also the protection of our existing infrastructure together with the stabilisation of existing rural enterprises. 
On 24 October last year an important agreement was reached on an approach to look at the River Murray problems on an overall catchment basis. This co-ordinated four-government approach resulted from a meeting called by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the three appropriate State Ministers. This was basically the first time that an agreement to tackle in a concerted effort Murray River Basin problems at their source had been achieved. The plan of action devised was that, even under present arrangements in which the River Murray Commission does not have the power to concern itself with many water quality problems, governments will be enabled to take steps in their own areas of responsibility. Of course, a necessary requirement for any successful action is money. I believe that a most successful and significant water resources program has been developed with a Federal Government capital base of $200m over live years. This, together with dollar for dollar contributions by the States, provides a program that allows not only scope for immediate and urgent work to be funded but also a real opportunity- in fact it is the first real opportunity- to undertake major remedial works. The Minister now responsible for these matters, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has, I believe, responded to requests from the States for priority works and to announcements in recent times of decisions to carry out such works as tube well interceptor bores in the Mildura-Merbein area of the river and other drainage and evaporation basin works in the Wakool of New South Wales. Similar remedial works in South Australia are presently being carried out under this particular water resources program. 
At this stage I ask the Minister for National Development to clear up some of the confusion that has been created in the Senate by  Senator McLaren's  mentioning that this water resources program is a little bit of a gimmick and that the money has been made available only on the basis of 30 per cent being provided as a grant and 70 per cent as loan money at the bond rate of interest. I believe that this matter should be cleared up very quickly because it is my understanding that the $200m which is being provided by the Commonwealth is basically grant money but that loans can be initiated if it is felt that that is in the best interests of the people for whom the money is being provided. 
All of us have over the years been able to assess visually the damage caused by piecemeal remedial measures that transmit the drainage and salinity problems of one district to another. Some of these measures have seriously threatened the important ecology of the region and some of them have contributed to saline drainage water entering the Murray River. Other measures have restricted throughout the length of the Murray an adequate minimum flow which is so necessary to prevent high salinity levels. 
Over the years we have had a series of reports on inquiries carried out by highly competent people. Lack of action on some of these reports has no doubt overtaken many proposed measures that were considered to be satisfactory at the time. However, one point is obvious in most of the reports that have been produced, namely, that the inquiries which produced those reports have been conducted with restraints. Sometimes these restraints have been of a political nature, but generally they have been financial. Sometimes the inquiry held did not have sufficient scope to deal with the matter at hand. An example was the proposals regarding stage one of the Tyrrel scheme as developed by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission of Victoria. That inquiry into overall river improvement was restrictive because of several factors. Firstly, the objective for the proposed works was to control any detriment to river quality attributable to works under construction in the Shepparton region. Secondly, it was restrictive for financial reasons because, despite the accepted alternative of piping water directly to the ocean, that has not been recommended. It was also restrictive because it understandably has been assessed relative to further proposals which depend on whether the proposals relating to the transmitting of saline water to Lake Tyrrel are carried out. 
The important thing is that every group and every government involved in the Murray Valley Basin recognises that water quality is possibly more critical to the future quality of life in this region than is even crude oil and that, while using it, we have to use it to the maximum, appreciating that it is a limited commodity. We must ensure that every water user, in both the upper and lower reaches of the river and its tributaries, has an equal need and an equal entitlement to share the quality and quantity of this valuable resource. We have to ensure that this system which supports an intensely successful decentralisation effort remains stable and also has the ability to absorb future growth. It is also essential that, with our changing lifestyles and work patterns, we do not increase the pressure on the Murray River, which will eventually be needed for leisure and recreation purposes, without providing the necessary infrastructure to cope with these pressures. Finally, we have to ensure that the Murray system, which encompasses a diverse and unique habitat and a sensitive ecology, is perserved for future generations. 
Perhaps the most essential move is the development of some overall authority or consulting mechanism which has a broader base than that which is presently contained within the authority of the River Murray Commission. The authority of the River Murray Commission basically relates entirely to the construction of works, hydraulic operation and distribution and allocation of water under its control. The River Murray Commission does not have the power to investigate the planning or implementation of corrective measures. It does not have any right to be involved in the granting or otherwise of water diversion processes. It does not have any control over river pollution. Even a suggestion made by a working party set up in 1973, namely, that a review be made of existing and planned land use so that maximum beneficial use of water was achieved in economic, environmental and social terms, was at that time rejected by all State Ministers. 
Comparisons of the situation faced in the Murray River Basin have been made with situations faced by similar authorities overseas. Perhaps the most appropriate and relevant comparison to the River Murray Commission is the Delaware River Basin Commission which was established in 196 1 in the United States of America. I think it is important to recognise that while the situation faced by that particular Commission has some relevance to our situation, it does differ in that the Delaware Basin Commission is basically related to a highly industrialised area which is heavily populated. But it is important to realise that the Commission does not supplant local agencies but in fact co-ordinates, oversees and fills in any gaps. This, I believe, is its key to success. It is a high level policy body with limited operational activities. 
I submit then that the River Murray Agreement in its present form does not deal adequately, effectively or efficiently with immediate and future problems of the river. It is therefore essential that recommendations be made which ensure that urgent action is taken, that proposals are developed that do not continue to frustrate irrigators along the length of the Murray in their efforts to reduce their problems. It is also important, however, that projects that are recommended are broad enough in scope for their effectiveness to be high. It is also important that such projects obtain total community and government support and that basically they are not calculated by means of short term considerations, whether these be financial or political, in regard to the overall problems of the Murray River Basin. 
I wish to raise in this Grievance Debate the subject of the increasingly disadvantaged position of Australian agriculture in the national economy. Basically, agriculture's competitive position in relation to its major competitors on world export markets has been weakened for two main reasons. Firstly, it has been weakened because of the increased protection provided to farmers in nations which are our main competitors and which set world commodity prices because of their volume of sales and production. This is particularly so in the United States of America, Canada and the European Economic Community, where most farm inputs are cheaper and the various assistance measures are designed to support prices and so maintain their farmers' incomes. The second reason is that secondary industry in Australia receives excessive protection through tariffs, quotas and at times of crisis quite substantial cash contributions. No other issue emphasises more than our fuel policy the impact upon exporting industries of policies designed to react within our domestic context. The rural sector is dependent on petroleum fuels. It is quite powerless to exist and produce without liquid fuels. 
Agriculture accounts in usage for up to 20 per cent of the nation's fuel consumption but this is used by only 6 per cent of our population. Before expanding this argument further it is essential for me to state my support for the Government's principal energy policy objectives, which are briefly: Moving crude oil prices towards import parity; restraining the rate of growth of energy consumption; achieving the highest degree of self-sufficiency in liquid fuel; and our policies of examining the possible establishment of strategic fuel supplies while developing economic oil and gas reserves as well as the policy that is designed to encourage major export projects while providina support for energy research and development. 
This policy has been necessary and is proving successful in achieving its objectives. Already there has been a revival in the Australian petroleum exploration industry. More wells are being drilled this year than in any of the past three years, with 27 exploration wells either completed or now in progress. This increased activity indicates that we will be able to achieve a greater than previously projected level of selfsufficiency in crude oil supplies in the mid-1980s and this is estimated to be at approximately 45 per cent. Our policies are also increasing a recognition within our motor industry and our motoring public of the need for research and rationalisation in regard to energy capacity and economy. Australia, like the rest of the world, has felt the impact of progressively rising fuel costs since 1973 when the OPEC countries increased their prices of Arabian light crude oil from the then price of $5.12 a barrel. Today the price is in excess of $13 a barrel. These spiralling costs, our increased consumption and a growing dependency on imported crude will combine, despite the policies I have already mentioned, to raise our oil import bill, which currently exceeds $700m, to $2,500m in 1985. Not only will this cost spiral increase progressively but it also raises the question of our ability to ensure a continuing supply of liquid fuel for our essential transport and agricultural industries. 
A policy of raising the price of crude oil to import parity was inevitable, and there could be no other alternative for a responsible government. It does, however, place the burden of cost quite unfairly upon country people in general and rural industries in particular. Other inequalities within the petroleum industry also bear unfairly on the rural consumer. The practice of discounting petrol in the cities disadvantages fuel users in the country. State governments have a major responsibility to control this practice. The Victorian Government moved very rapidly to remove discounting in the liquor industry, a luxury trade, but it appears quite hesitant to make any similar moves within the petroleum industry. 
Then there is the need to scrutinise the total distribution system in the petroleum industry. Inland transportation costs are over three times the average cost of supplying the overall retail network. A further analysis also reveals that the combined cost of agents' commissions, field representatives and installations of depots associated with the delivery of fuel to primary producers is four times higher per tonne of fuel than the Australia-wide figure. These figures alone indicate the excessive burden being carried by users of petroleum products in rural areas, particularly those more isolated from distribution points and ports. 
The implementation of the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act has had a significant impact on reducing fuel costs for those who have been paying excessive penalties for their isolation. We will within the life of the present Parliament further reduce these costs by subsidising freight costs to within  Vic  a litre of the average metropolitan price. Most fuel users are able to pass on or at least combat rising fuel prices, but rural industries have limited scope to pass on any increase in costs arising from an increase in crude oil prices. 
Government policy does provide the primary industry with a concession on distillate. Diesel fuel used on-farm is free of excise but the increase in the cost of crude oil caused by the recent levy has eroded the comparative benefits available prior to 1973 and before the crude oil price hike began. The highest absolute and proportional increases in fuel costs occur on wheat properties, where fuel costs increased by 47 per cent between 1973-74 and 1975-76. These recent changes to crude oil prices have added in the vicinity of $ 160m to Australian agriculture costs and further compound the problems. Fuel costs constitute in excess of 10 per cent of total cash costs on cropping properties. Whilst these costs are not as high on other agricultural properties, fuel costs bear significantly on profitability. 
Fuel used on farms is a relatively fixed item of expense in practical terms. This reflects the fact that modern farming systems are dependent to a high degree on petroleum products for energy generation and, as such, the minimum input required for farm operation is high. This relatively inflexible nature of fuel use also reflects the high level of capital investment in farm machinery. Overall implications for the rural sector of increases in fuel prices extend beyond the direct effects. As I briefly mentioned earlier, increased freight charges associated with marketing and the purchasing and transportation of other inputs also emerge. The combination of these effects will increase the economic pressures acting upon farm costs in general, especially those in remoter areas. 
A large part of present fuel cost is tax and excise duty. This gives the Government the ability to give a complete or at least a substantial exemption for fuel used in primary production. The same policy as applies to diesel oil could be applied to petrol, as is done in Canada. I therefore call on the Government to make an immediate evaluation of the impact of fuel costs upon our rural exporting industries. Such an inquiry, if independent, could advise of the measures that would be necessary to give Australian agriculture an economic ability to compete effectively. The application of further concessions to essential industry and production would be of benefit to the total Australian community. We are still predominantly dependent for our future on rural exports, and any increase in our earnings would benefit all Australians, and increase our ability to pay for rising import accounts and reverse our worsening trade deficit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of grants mads made within the Department of Science for research and study into soil and river salinity. 
What is the nature of the projects under investigation and which section of the Department is responsible for the research activity. 
-Did the Minister for Trade and Resources see recent comments in the Press by a union official suggesting that Australia is in danger of losing its live sheep trade to the Middle East if trade in frozen mutton is not developed? What is being done to develop the carcass trade? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry read this week's edition of  Time  magazine, which refers to the changing character of agriculture in the United States? If so, how do these figures compare with agriculture's position in the Australian economy? 
It is a pleasure to rise to speak in support of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill. It has been a pleasure to listen to the excellent comments made by the three honourable members who have participated in this debate so far. The first part of this BUI includes a provision that will establish a varietal control scheme for wheat throughout Australia. It provides also for a change in the legal basis on which the Board makes payments to the State bulk handling authorities and for a change in the basis of remuneration of those authorities. I think that it is important to state, as the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  points out, that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation requested the Commonwealth and the States to introduce a scheme that would discourage the growing of unacceptable varieties of wheat in Australia. In turn, the Australian Agricultural Council agreed in principle to introduce such a scheme with the objective of ensuring that the marketability of the Australian wheat crop was not prejudiced. Since then all States have agreed in principle to the varietal control scheme and all States, with the exception of Victoria and Western Australia, are proceeding with the introduction of this amendment without delay. Victoria and Western Australia propose to make the necessary amendments to their legislation next year. Until the legislation of those two States has been amended, it is necessary to make provision for this in the complementary Commonwealth-State legislation because of the nature of the pooling arrangements provided therein. 
This amendment provides for the exclusion from the scheme for the time being of wheat from those two States. One of the recommendations made in the recent Industries Assistance 
Commission report on the wheat industry relating to marketing arrangements stated that restraints currently imposed on the Australian Wheat Board in respect of grading, pricing and segregation should be removed. Under the current legislation the Board is required to receive into the Australian Standard White class any variety that conforms with the receival standards regardless of how poor its processing quality may be. More significantly, the Board must pay the grower of that wheat the average pool return per tonne less freight and handling costs without making any allowance for processing quality. This system means that the growers of ASW wheat are never made aware of the relative values to the end user of the varieties which they deliver and there is no incentive whatsoever to improve the quality of their product. It is therefore very important that growers be made aware of the commercial value of the varieties they grow and the proposed changes to the legislation are designed to do just that. 
The scheme is the result of processors, both abroad and in Australia, becoming increasingly exacting in regard to quality. Dockages will apply at receival in exactly the same way as those now applying for physical defects. As I have mentioned, in some States the scheme will be given a trial run in the coming crop. This trial and the 1979-80 crop will allow growers, bulk handling authorities and the Board to become familiar with it and to rectify any operational problems. It will also give growers in all States two seasons to reorganise their seed situation to meet marketing demands. 
The workings of the scheme are roughly as follows: The wheat advisory committees in the various States will recommend the varieties to be sown and before sowing all varieties will be fully discussed with the various committees. The committees' recommendations will, as at present, be based on yield, disease resistance and quality. The docking system at harvest will operate as follows: No dockage will apply to varieties recommended by the committee in each State. All varieties other than those recommended by the committee will be subject to assessment by the Board. For example, varieties with minor quality disabilities will attract a dockage equal to the present dockage for wheat containing sprouted grain. This is $3 per tonne. These dockage varieties will be binned as ASW. Very poor quality varieties completely out of line with local growing conditions, unregistered varieties and cross-breds will attract a dockage up to the maximum general purpose dockage, which is currently $22 per tonne, and will be stored as general purpose grain. 
Other conditions of the scheme are that at delivery growers or their agents will be required to state the variety of each load. It has been stated by a former member of this House- I guess he was stating pure Liberal principles- that he would defend the right of his growers to go broke any way they wished. At the time he made that comment there were 283 varieties of wheat in Australia. Whilst I would defend the right of any grower to grow what he wished, I would not defend the right of any grower to deliver any variety of wheat to marketing authorities and have it mixed with other growers' grain to the detriment of the total crop. I think that it is important that the varietal control recommendations, which have been the subject of so much emotional and often ill-informed discussion, are being introduced. It is extremely important for growers to appreciate the necessity for such a scheme and the very real advantages that will flow from it. We cannot continue to prejudice the saleability of the Australian wheat crop any longer. 
The second part of the legislation deals with the changes in arrangements for the remuneration of the State bulk handling authorities by the Australian Wheat Board. This also is supported by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. Until now the costs of wheat handling and storage have been pooled on an Australia-wide basis. Under the revised arrangements Australiawide pooling will no longer apply. Growers delivering wheat to the central receival system of each State will be charged at a rate for storage and handling which is appropriate to the costs incurred by the bulk handling authority in their State. This new arrangement will identify for growers the charges incurred by the authority which stores and handles their wheat and will so enable it greater accountability to wheat growers, for over the last few years these charges have been increasing at a very high rate. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a chart which shows payments to bulk handling authorities, State by State, and also unit payments to bulk handling authorities. I have discussed this matter with the Opposition spokesman. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811172_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

The system that has worked for many years is one whereby the Australian Wheat Board, through its licensed receivers, accepts all wheat tendered to it by growers, subject to certain minimum requisite standards. The licensed receivers are the bulk handling authorities in each State, and these comprise four government authorities and two wheat grower co-operatives, as well as certain flour millers and stock feed suppliers who have been licensed to receive wheat. 
Capital expenditure by the bulk handling authorities in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland is financed either through State government loans or through commercial loans, which in total form part of the State's loan allocation from the Australian Loan Council. In South Australia and Western Australia, however, capital expenditure is financed by tolls on deliveries from growers, which provide a rotating loan fund, and loans from commercial institutions. I think it is important that I set out what is contained in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. The costs incurred by receivers on the following items are reimbursed by the Australian Wheat Board: Depreciation on storages, buildings, and equipment; interest and associated expenses on loans for the purchase of assets; interest on tolls in South Australia; interest on tolls and levies in Western Australia; interest on levies in 
Queensland; operating expenses; and, of course, hiring charges paid to the bulk handling authorities on the basis of one per cent of the original cost of the asset. 
I have already incorporated in  Hansard  the tables which set out the costs incurred by the bulk handling authorities, State by State. These costs are pooled and shared on a pro rata basis by all wheat growers in Australia. The Australian Wheat Board- I think it is significant that this is recognised- proposed that this arrangement be altered so that wheat growers in any one State would bear directly the costs of their bulk handling authority. On the basis that the current reimbursement system continued, between 1971-72 and 1976-77 handling and storage costs of wheat growers in Western Australia and New South Wales would have increased, while for growers in South Australia, Victoria and Queensland they would have generally declined. 
At this point I wish to indicate the storage capacity that we have in Australia. In 1976-77 our total storage capacity for wheat, excluding stock feed and on-farm storage, was 20.3 million tonnes. The bulk handling authorities controlled almost all of that storage capacity, with 15.9 million tonnes of country capacity and 4.1 million tonnes of capacity at the seaboard. The storage capacity of flour millers was only 0.3 million tonnes. Over recent weeks quite a considerable argument has been going on in the Victorian media in relation to the announcement by the Grain Elevators Board in Victoria that it intends to slash charges for the coming wheat season. I think it is worth pointing out that the costs that are incurred by many of our bulk handling authorities are very much dependent on the amount of production grown in that State from year to year. I think it is quite dishonest on the part of our bulk handling authorities to make claims at times for either increases or decreases in their costs from season to season, without relating such claims to their production. 
I think the only State which could really claim very high efficiency in the delivery of grain is Queensland. If we compare the costs of the 1976-77 season with those expected in the 1978-79 season we find that the only State that can really claim an honest reduction in costs is Queensland. The costs in that State have been reduced from $9.64 per tonne to $8.20 per tonne. The Grain Elevators Board in Victoria, which is a most efficient and effective grain handling authority, this year will be charging growers $6.80 per tonne. In 1976-77, which was an equivalent year of production, the cost was approximately $4.63 per tonne. That indicates that, whilst costs have been reduced when compared with those of last season, in a year of low production costs increased quite significantly, especially when compared with costs in 1976-77 which was an equivalent year of production. 
I do not wish to elaborate a great deal more on the Bill, except to say that it has the support of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I believe it will introduce greater efficiency into our marketing and handling costs. I believe it will promote a greater acceptance of the quality of the Australian wheat crop on the export market. I would like to congratulate, as did the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  the Australian Wheat Board on its operations over very many years. When we start talking about the costs of marketing and the handling of wheat, it is sometimes forgotten that these costs basically relate not to the costs incurred by the Australian Wheat Board but costs incurred through our various transport systems and our handling authorities. I believe that the relative cost incurred by the Australian Wheat Board in its operations was in the vicinity of 49c per tonne for all wheat handled in the last year. 
I believe that the decisions to have State accountability will put tremendous pressure on the State handling authorities to explain to their growers and to justify to their growers any decisions that are taken in relation to further construction of storage facilities. It is now recognised in Victoria that the decisions that had to be taken quite hurriedly to build additional storage facilities in the years of very heavy production in 1976-77- horizontal storages were builtsignificantly increased the cost of that system to growers. When Queensland was faced with a similar situation it opted for vertical storages, which have had the opposite effect as regards costs. 
I make one other comment. I hope that the arrangements that are presently under way relating to the use of Portland as an export terminal for wheat will soon be concluded. There is no doubt that Geelong has a magnificent and efficient grain terminal, but the costs involved in and the inefficiencies of transporting to Geelong all of Victoria's grain and some of the grain of the Riverina have long been recognised. As soon as the terminal at Portland can be utilised by the Australian Wheat Board, we will see further reductions in costs for the people involved, particularly those in the north-west and western parts of Victoria, in the delivery of grain to that very favourable port. That port can accommodate ships of a capacity twice that which can be handled at Geelong and, of course, it does not suffer from the same demurrage charges. I support the legislation. I believe it has the acceptance of the Australian wheat industry. I believe that it forms part of a lead-up to the very successful establishment of a new stabilisation scheme for Australian wheat growers. 
I wish to refer particularly to clause 3 of the Export Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2), which refers to alterations that will substantially increase the excise on brandy by 83.6 per cent. I regret that I am unable to support my Government in relation to this part of the Bill which refers to the tariff alterations that will affect the brandy industry. I have no doubt that these changes will throw this vital Australian industry into a critical position and will further aggravate a worsening grape surplus which will be catastrophic in some areas of the Riverland and the Murray Valley and will create quite substantial income reductions for grape growers in many areas in the Sunraysia and grape growing regions of Australia. This alteration has also reversed a government stance of the past when the Government did not place imposts on industries that had a case then before the Industries Assistance Commission. It is intolerable that this Budget decision was taken in the knowledge that an inquiry was proceeding into potable spirits and that it would not be finalised until mid- 1 979, well after the current year 's crop. 
It has been estimated by the Austraiian Wine Board that there will be a massive grape surplus this year of some 60,000 to 70,000 tonnes, representing an increase of almost 20,000 tonnes over last year. It is therefore highly likely that this rise in excise will cut consumption of brandy by up to 36 per cent. Formerly brandy production has accounted for some 14 per cent of the grape harvest. Last year consumption fell to 4 per cent and this year, if the consumption of brandy falls again, it is likely that none will be distilled from the 1979 harvest. One wine maker in my electorate has indicated that some 5,500 tonnes will not be handled by his winery this year and that this will approximate a loss to producers and to the industry of some $650,000 in income. Another winery has written to all of its producers. Its letter states: 
Due to a fall off in demand for spirit, and our overstocked situation, we had no option, than to refuse to accept distillation fruit. 
He was referring to this season. Of course one must be critical of many large scale wine makers who have continued to plant vines in the face of a growing surplus of grapes and wine. This action has been irresponsible. The industry therefore has a responsibility to introduce constraints on over-production even if this requires the registration of growers. However, this is a most inopportune time to increase the excise. The brandy industry desperately needs a boost and a lower level of excise is probably the only means of doing it in relation to the current level of production. It is imperative that a differential in favour of brandy against its competitors be established. Prior to the repeal of section 3 1 A by the Austraiian Labor Party when it was in government, the wine industry was able to finance its peculiar cash flow requirements which arose from its raw material being available only once a year. The result has been that all grape production was able to be absorbed in the low and surplus years. 
Wine and brandy makers acquired quantities rising from 164,000 tonnes in 19S3 to 439,000 tonnes in 1975. Further growth in both production and clearances of Austraiian brandy was recorded in the 1976-77 and 1977-78 years after four years of continuous decline which corresponded directly to successive increases in excise and the phasing out of the excise brandy differential by the ALP which commenced in 1973 and concluded in 1975. I think it is most hypocritical of the spokesmen for the Opposition tonight to talk about the effect of this excise and not to mention the effect that the Labor Party had on the wine growing industry when it was in office. As mentioned by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  the differential, which did stand at 60 per cent, was reduced to 5.4 per cent during that party's term of office. We also have to remember that rapidly rising inflation and increases in interest rates greatly disadvantaged many of these industries, particularly those that were involved in any export markets. The customs duty on imported brandy was imposed on this industry in 1965 and gave an advantage to the Australian brandy industry of 5.8 per cent, but this figure has now been eroded to one per cent. If we compare Austraiian brandy with imported whisky in 1965 we see a customs advantage to Australian brandy of some 36 per cent. Because of the recent changes this figure has now been eroded to 2 per cent. 
I believe that it is essential that the Government restore the relativity in percentage terms between these two products. Brandy distillers, are quite different from other spirit distillers particularly in terms of major investment such as stockholding requirements, maturation and distillation facilities and bearing in mind the twoyear maturation period required by law in this country. Brandy distillers must plan a vintage production for estimated sales three years ahead. It is therefore necessary, provided there is no sudden change in government policies, that three years' stockholding should be an objective of brandy distillers. Over the years there has been a definite pattern of stockholding becoming unbalanced following earlier excise increases by the ALP. In the 1973 to 1975 period stockholding in relation to forward sales rose to 4.7 years and it has taken the last 12 months for this figure to be reduced to 3.9 years. This reduction was achieved substantially by reducing production by 55 per cent in the period from 1973 to 1976. 
Brandy stocks are again out of balance, directly as a result of Budget excise increases. 
It would now seem quite unjustified for brandy distillers to plan any production at all in 1979, and that is exactly what is happening. The pre-Budget clearance prediction for 1978-79, which will now not be replaced, represents somewhere in the vicinity of 34,000 tonnes of grapes. If we base this tonnage on an average price of $125 a tonne we can see that there will be a financial loss of some $4.2 m. Estimates that I can make of the increased revenue that will be collected in the first year from Australian brandy because of this extra increase are that it will be in the vicinity of only $4m. This will be at the expense of an Austraiian industry but in favour of the Sctoch whisky producers in Scotland. The increase in revenue will be made directly at the expense of grape growers and will be offset by losses in income tax as grape growers will have losses of income through grapes being left on the vines. 
The brandy industry has been established on a long term basis and brandy grapes have been planted for brandy production. In many cases these grapes are not suitable for wine making purposes. The brandy distillation and maturation operation is capital intensive and its plant and equipment cannot be utilised for other wine making processes. The Austraiian brandy industry is a long cycled industry with a two-year maturation. Vineyards are planted on a long term basis and replacement of stock must be planned for a market three years ahead. Therefore it is essential in the interests of long term stability that governments recognise this and recognise also that any large movements in the rates of excise, such as this massive 83.6 per cent increase, will have harmful effects. It concerns me that this is the first time in my six years in Parliament that I have been unable to support the Government, or the coalition when in Opposition, on a piece of industry legislation. Whilst I give great credit that the Budget did not make a new impost on Australian wine, which has already stimulated domestic demand in the table wine area, I believe that this increase in excise on the Australian brandy industry was illconsidered, unnecessary and totally inappropriate. 

 -Mr Chairman, under Standing Order 193 I ask that my opposition to clause 3 sub-clause 2 paragraph (a) be recorded. 
-I support these four Bills that relate to the Australian dried fruits industry. Basically these Bills do two things: Firstly, they provide for a statutory scheme for equalising the market returns that are received for dried currants, dried sultanas and dried raisins that are sold on our domestic and export markets; and, secondly, they provide for the establishment of an Australian Dried Fruits Corporation to replace the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board which has been in existence since 1925. The development of the dried fruits industry in the Murray Valley by the Chaffey brothers has been of enormous magnitude, both in economic terms and as a successful decentralisation program. Although the first crop of five tonnes of dried fruit was not recorded until 1891, the production of some varieties already was in excess of Austraiian requirements by 1907. 1 think this indicates the development and suitability of this crop to this region of Australia. 
A simple equalisation scheme was introduced by the Australian Dried Fruits Association in 1909. This scheme was observed only by ADFA members. Although several methods of enforcing observance of export quotas by members outside the Association was attempted, few of these measures proved successful. As early as 1915, representations were being made to the Commonwealth and the State governments seeking administrative and legislative assistance so that the objectives of orderly marketing could be advanced and protected. High export prices from 1915 to 1922 gave an added confidence to the industry and led to considerable expansion mostly under the sponsorship of the war settlement scheme. However, in 1923 as many areas were coming into production Mediterranean fruit reached the United Kingdom market in large quantities and the price of dried fruit on this market dropped by 50 per cent. 
The voluntary scheme of market control by the ADFA could not withstand these economic pressures. In 1923 the industry again approached the Commonwealth and the State governments seeking legislative assistance to establish and enforce fruit quality standards as well as enforcing market equalisation. A final scheme was approved. It provided that each of the producing States would declare the percentage of its production which had to be sold outside Australia and that the Commonwealth would determine the terms and conditions under which dried fruit could be exported. A dried fruits board was established in each producing State to control Australian sales. A Commonwealth board was established to control export sales. In addition, at that time immediate financial assistance was provided to the industry through the Dried Fruit Advances Act 1924. These advances were repaid by the growers at a 6 per cent interest rate. 
Under this scheme the States played a dominant role in market equalisation by determining the quantity of fruit that any one agent could sell in Australia. The Commonwealth Control Board 's role was more passive. It effected control only over that fruit offered for export. However, an added inducement for packers to export was provided by empowering the Board to make expedient advances of up to 80 per cent of the fruit value against fruit offered to it for export. This provision was supported by the Export Guarantee Act 1924. As a result of challenges in the High Court of Australia, the 1924 Act was declared invalid as being contrary to the provisions of section 92 of the Constitution. As a result, in May 1928 the Commonwealth Dried Fruit Act was introduced. From this time until today the State governments have played no part in market equalisation. The dried fruit industry has, from that time to the present, been successful in maintaining orderly marketing of dried fruit within Australia on an independent voluntary basis. The Dried Vine Fruits Equalization Bill 1978 that has now been introduced by my Government at the request of the industry establishes this statutory scheme. 
At least one-third- probably close to 40 per cent- of the Sunraysia and Robinvale populations and a major percentage of the population of the mid-Murray area in my electorate is directly or indirectly dependent on the dried fruit industry. Annual production of dried fruit today is approximately 60,000 tonnes, one-third of which is marketed in Australia. The value of this crop varies, depending on the season and the price, between $40m and $S0m. In ordinary circumstances the return from Australian marketing has been much more attractive than the return from the export market. However, it can be anticipated that for the first season of this statutory equalisation scheme circumstances will exist in which export returns exceed the domestic return. This has come about through the substantial failure of the 1978 Californian crop. There is every likelihood that export prices in 1979 will be at an extremely high level. This, however, does not remove the essential problem that statutory equalisation is designed to meet. 
The scheme will provide for a compulsory levy disbursement arrangement under which dried vine packing houses will receive for ultimate payment to growers an equalised return for domestic and export sales. Levies will be raised on the production of each variety of fruit but there will be an exemption for the production which is exported. The rate of the levy will, therefore, be the difference between an assessed average domestic return and an assessed average export return to the packing house. Levy proceeds will form varietal equalisation funds into which will also be paid by exporters export receipts in excess of the assessed average export return. Disbursement from the funds will be made by two packers to achieve the equalised return. 
Before I comment on the structure of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board I will mention one or two other areas that are concerning the dried fruit industry at the moment. One that is of prime concern is the possible entry in the near future of Greece and Turkey into the European Economic Community. I have asked both the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)-  he has now replied- and the Minister for Special Trade Representations who is presently in the EEC to study closely the problems that may develop as a result of these two countries, which are the greatest competitors of the Australian dried fruit industry, entering the Common Market. I also refer to the negotiations last year by the dried fruit industry of a hail insurance scheme. Horticultural crops do not attract successful hail insurance schemes within the commercial sector. It has been difficult for many years to establish a viable insurance scheme to protect the industry, particularly the dried fruit industry. Last year a scheme was developed in negotiation with a major insurance company. It has proved to be of enormous benefit already this year when some growers had their crops damaged by hail in the Sunraysia area. I appeal to growers involved in the dried fruit industry to insure their crops. Not only will this ensure protection of their incomes but also will it ensure that the premiums paid by all growers will be as low as possible. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  is in a more relaxed mood over the last three years in supporting some of the Bills that have been put forward by our Government in the agricultural sector than he was a few years ago when, tongue in cheek, he had to support the Bills put forward by the Labor Government. I congratulate him on the understanding that he has of the industry and for the work he does for the people he represents on the New South Wales side of the River Murray. I turn now to the establishment of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. It should be recognised that this measure also was requested by the industry. With the development of a statutory equalisation scheme, the Government is taking the opportunity to restructure the composition and functions of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. This restructured body will be known as the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation. Aside from its administration of the equalisation scheme it will continue the regulatory control of export carried out by the former Board. It will have the power to engage in trade, subject to ministerial approval. It will also have the authority to borrow money for this purpose. Appropriate provisions are being made in the legislation for a government guarantee for such borrowings. 
Another major change in respect of the Constitution of the controlling authority is that it will have fewer members than the Board it replaces. The number will be reduced from 1 1 to eight. Four members will represent growers. These will be selected for appointment by the Minister from a panel of nominees submitted by the industry itself. Two members will also be appointed as ministerial appointments. They will be persons specifically qualified by reasons of experience in marketing or promotion of dried fruits or other products. They may also be experienced in commerce, finance, economics, science or other industrial matters. In making these appointments the Minister for Primary Industry will consult with the dried fruit industry and with any other bodies that he considers appropriate. The two remaining members of the new corporation will be a member to represent the Commonwealth and an independent  chairman.  These will also be appointed by the Minister. All these members will be appointed as part time members and the term of office will be three years. The Dried Fruits Corporation will be financed, as was the former Board, by a charge on exports of dried vine fruits. It is anticipated that the smaller and more compact body with a wider range of skills and expertise available to it and with its widening powers and functions will meet the needs of the industry in the future. I think it is also fair to mention, as the representative of the electorate producing almost all the dried fruit in Australia, that there has been some opposition and some difference in opinion to this particular legislation. 
This different opinion has been held mainly because of the view that in any marketing system which seeks to achieve anything like optimum performance from all the sectors involved, be they grower, packer, processor, agent or retailer, it is imperative to seek out the means by which either the rewards or the penalties incurred in the market place are accurately transmitted to each sector of that industry. Some people in the industry do hold the view that in a close appraisal of this equalisation scheme it does not achieve that particular objective. I disagree. I emphasise that the Government and I, as the member representing the Sunraysia area, believe that the views expressed by the Australian Dried Fruit Association represents the majority of people involved in the dried fruit industry. That industry has had a long history of self-help and regulation. This has been achieved through the co-operation and loyalty of its members, the growers, packers and the various organisations. This loyalty has often been retained through times of quite substantial difficulty and now, fortunately for the industry, through times of prosperity. 
I am convinced that this legislation implementing a compulsory equalisation scheme and the restructuring of the corporation proposed at the same time, will place this industry in a position that will allow it to cope with the enormous pressures that any agricultural industry in Australia faces- facing the high internal cost structure of our nation yet having to operate very largely on a difficult export market. Further, I am convinced the policies the Government is following mainly in reducing inflation and in reducing interest rates are of major importance to the agricultural sector of the Australian economy. With the member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and I am sure the member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  who is to follow me in this debate, I have great pleasure in supporting this legislation. I am quite sure it offers to the Australian dried fruit industry continued stability and viability. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Can he inform the House of the cost of vehicle emission controls to the motor industry? As reports indicate substantial increases in fuel consumption as a result of vehicle emission controls with a little significant benefit to air quality, will the Minister ensure a thorough evaluation of the present standards before long term measures are implemented? 
-Can the Minister for Trade and Resources say what implications the Crawford report has for the Government's recent initiatives to encourage Australian industry to improve its export performance? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. 
-On Thursday last the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  misrepresented a discussion I had with him on the current difficulties of obtaining fruit pickers in Mildura. The honourable member for Port Adelaide stated that 2,591 people were registered as unemployed in Mildura, yet only 1,700 registered vacancies existed. This is not the case. One month ago, 2,591 people were registered for work in Mildura. Since that time all except 367 of those people have been employed, but at this point in time 1,700 vacancies exist. This means that 3,924 jobs were available but only 2,224 of those have been filled. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The Minister is aware of representations and proposals designed to achieve satisfactory protection for the Australian citrus industry against low cost imports of citrus concentrates. As present assistance will cease at the end of this month, when will the Government be in a position to announce new measures? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to discussions and proposals designed to develop a new S-year stabilisation scheme for the Australian wheat industry. Will the Minister advise the House on the progress being made to arrive at a new wheat stabilisation scheme? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. The House would be aware of a significant boost in rural incomes after many years of depressed returns. Can the Minister indicate whether this recovery in the rural sector is also being reflected in increased exports of farm products? 
-Why members of the Labor Party always seek to turn any Bill dealing with primary industry which is introduced into this House into a drama always amazes me. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  reminds me of a mixture of a Hitchcock plot and the final episode of Blue Hills. Members of the Labor Party will simply not accept that on such problems as are concerning us now our Government is prepared to consult with grower organisations and to seek a solution that suits the organisations, the Government and the community at large. The two Bills before the House are excellent examples of that. The last wheat harvest saw a record crop of 18 million tonnes produced in Australia. It was primarily brought about by favourable climatic conditions which produced exceptionally high yields. There were, of course, other factors such as the introduction and use over the past few seasons of new varieties of wheat, particularly the semi-dwarf varieties such as condor and egret and the harder variety, songlen 
It is interesting to note that the record crop produced last season came from a stable area of 9 million to 10 million hectares of wheat. The crop produced has given a tremendous boost to the agricultural sector and rural life after many years of depressed prices and poor seasonal conditions. This huge crop means in both production and value terms that there is a great potential to reinforce our national economy with increased export earnings. However, there is also the potential- this was recognised by the Government and the Australian wheat industry- to disrupt the national economy with the inflationary impact of surplus funds. It is in this light that the need for this legislation was seen. 
Two Bills are currently before us: The Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill and the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill. Basically, the first Bill is to provide for the reimbursement to the Australian Wheat Board for the costs incurred by it in making certain commercial borrowings to assist in financing the first advance payment. The Government announced before harvest this season the level of the first advance payable to wheat growers on the delivery of their grain to the respective State bulk handling authorities. For the 1978-79 season the Government set a first advance payment of $75 a tonne. This was an increase of $9 a tonne above the previous season's level and was a record wheat payment to the industry. Traditionally, the Government makes arrangements with the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia to provide the Wheat Board with the funds necessary to cover the first advance payments funded by the Board within the statutory 12 months applicable to borrowing for seasonal finance purposes, and these have been guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member is reflecting on the Chair. There is no point of order. He will resume his seat. 
I appreciate the attention being given to my address tonight but I believe that this would be an appropriate time to ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-When this debate was adjourned last Thursday night, I was discussing how late in November decisions are taken as to the level of the first advance. Arrangements are then made for the Australian Wheat Board to borrow sufficient funds from the Reserve Bank of Australia to meet both the first advance and Board expenses. When these decisions were made last November it was estimated that deliveries to the Board would be some 13 million tonnes. We all know, of course, that this delivery estimate mounted rapidly to a final figure of a little less than 18 million tonnes, almost 4 million tonnes in excess of the previous record. The record crop meant that the Australian Wheat Board's financing needs for the season amounted to a very large sum of some $ 1,600m. Money was advanced by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank and directly contributed to the money supply in the Australian economy. 
The growth in money supply has been beyond that which was consistent with the Government's economic policy objectives. Accordingly, a number of measures were taken to stem prospective increases in interest rates. One of the measures decided on by the Government was that a change should be made this season to the traditional method of financing the wheat crop. The change that we are now discussing involved the Wheat Board raising part of its financing requirements from the 1978-79 season through the issue of commercial bills. The Board has already refinanced $155m of its Reserve Bank borrowings in this way and is presently proceeding with a further issue of bills to raise $300m commercially for refinancing part of its indebtedness to the Reserve Bank. In acceding to the request that it raise the further $300m commercially, the Australian Wheat Board has stated that the Board's decision was taken in the interests of the Australian community as a whole. I believe that the role of Board members and the  Chairman  in this matter has been a proper one. Their decisions have expressed their perception of the interests of the wheat industry and the community. 
When the Board was asked to undertake this means of funding, the Government gave a commitment that any additional cost of the commercial borrowings would be borne by the Government so that wheat growers would receive the same cash payment for their crops. This undertaking by the Government does not mean a subsidy to the Australian wheat growers. It means that a facility which enables the most effective handling of the crop can be continued and funded in the most effective way. That facility enables payments to growers on delivery, leaving the Australian Wheat Board free to negotiate sales at the highest commercial price over a reasonable time instead of immediately at a price the market would bear. 
Clause 4 of the Bill specifies the basis for the determination by the Minister for Primary Industry of the amounts payable to the Board as reimbursement of borrowing costs. In respect of the interest costs associated with the commercial borrowings, the Board is to be reimbursed the difference between the amount of interest actually incurred by it and what would have been incurred if the borrowing had been made in the normal way from the Reserve Bank. 
In regard to borrowing costs other than interest, the full amount of any such costs will be reimbursed where the borrowing is for the purpose of refinancing Reserve Bank drawings as these are costs which the Board would not have incurred normally. If the Board borrows commercially for direct financing purposes, as distinct from refinancing a Reserve Bank borrowing, only the costs additional to those that would be incurred in respect of Reserve Bank borrowing will be reimbursed. In general, the Bill ensures that the Wheat Board and, through it, the wheat industry, sustain no extra costs through undertaking alternative financing arrangements for the 1978-79 crop and so contributing to the economic welfare of the nation as a whole. 
The second Bill simply specifies the existing powers of the Australian Wheat Board to raise money by the issue of approved securities and to empower the Minister for Primary Industry to provide a Commonwealth guarantee or repayment in connection with those securities. The Bill also makes provision for the exemption from stamp duty or similar taxes of securities issued by the Board and transactions in those securities as well as other documents or transactions of the Board relating to its borrowings or raising of money. The Bill is specifically designed so that the existing general powers of the Board may be used to borrow commercially and to take advantage of types of money market facilities presently available to a body such as the Australian Wheat Board for the raising of money. 
Specifically the Bill provides for the Board, with the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry, to issue securities including bills of exchange, promissory notes, unsecured notes or other similar instruments. The power of the Board to borrow commercially- for example, by bank overdraft, with the approval of the Minister- is retained. The exemption from payment of stamp duty has particular relevance to the accompanying Bill which provides for the Wheat Board to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth for costs of certain borrowings. Without this provision for the exemption from stamp duty the Commonwealth could, in effect, be paying that tax in instances where the States themselves were not prepared to grant exemption. The Bill then facilitates the special financing arrangements entered into by the Board this season at the request of the Government. It also broadens the base for future operations of the Board. 
I know that these changes caused deep concern to many wheat growers. However, I believe that there is now a real understanding within the industry of the reasons why these changes were necessary and the important benefits that will accrue to the wheat growers and the community alike. I stress that the change is for monetary policy reasons and that they will be made at no additional cost to growers. In other words, the interest payable on these commercial borrowings is to be guaranteed by the Government to be no more than the rate which would be paid on funds borrowed from the Rural Credits Department up to 31 March 1980. 
As I have already mentioned briefly, two factors contributed to the Government's decision. Firstly, the harvest was a record one and it coincided with the increase from $66 per tonne to the highest first advance payment ever of $75 per tonne. These two factors have meant that the Reserve Bank has injected very large amounts of money into the economy in a relatively short period. Of course these sums will be repaid when the wheat is sold. However, the Australian Wheat Board's indebtedness to the Reserve Bank on 30 June 1979 will still be more than $800m. This compares with only $280m at 30 June last year. 
The Government took these decisions only after very careful consideration of the impact of this cash flow on the whole community, including wheat growers. The advice has been that unless the money supply could be contained interest rates in the community would have to rise. It is important to recognise that these changes ensure that the wheat industry should not be called upon to finance decisions advantaging not just wheat growers but every Australian. Accordingly, the undertaking has been given that costs will remain as if the money were advanced from the Rural Credits Department. Whilst it is a departure from past practices, I am sure that the wheat growers of Australia have as great an interest in overall economic conditions as any other Australian. 
As the honourable member for Darling Downs has quite rightly stated, the Australian wheat industry, through consultation has recognised that it is a responsible decision and is supporting it. I am quite sure it recognises also that the pressure it has applied to contain inflation has been at least as great as that from any other industry group. Had the Government not taken this decision, without doubt inflationary expectations this financial year would have been greater than is currently the case. The decision in this case reflects also the Government's determination to maintain responsible monetary policies. It means restraint on the growth of the money supply. It does not mean moving away from the guarantees that the Government has given the industry under the stabilisation legislation. Nor does it in any way lessen the Government's support for the industry. Wheat growers will receive the same cash advances and the Board will not bear higher interest costs. 
Over the past few months consultations between the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, the Australian Wheat Board and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have taken place on new stabilisation proposals to apply in the 1980s. These discussions will be continued in the weeks ahead. The discussions that have been held have been regular and have been conducted in an atmosphere of goodwill, understanding and with the objective of meeting the needs of the Australian wheat producer, particularly in retaining and improving satisfactory marketing arrangements on the domestic and export markets. These arrangements will also ensure that there will be more acceptable payment procedures in line with differing circumstances in which the industry finds itself. 
One aspect of these arrangements is that the growers have an immediate and significant cash flow higher than that which has been traditionally the pattern. Another aspect is the need for a safeguard against sudden price reductions and a first advance payment sufficient to meet obligations of investment in plant and machinery and, of course, normal operating costs. I therefore give my support to these Bills because I believe that they are an important part of the new stabilisation proposals. However, they are an example also of successful negotiations between a responsible and competent growers' organisation and the Government and suggest that the next stabilisation proposals will be a vast improvement on the last plan. 
Over the last three years the Government has initiated some very significant policies which have placed all people involved in primary industry in a much more advantageous situation than they have been in the past. I believe these policies have had an enormous impact on the wheat industry and I wish to mention briefly three of them. Without doubt the most significant policy that has been initiated to assist rural people over many years has been the total abolition as from 1 July of all estate and gift duty. We are all aware of the tremendous significance of these policies and the disastrous effect that the payment of these death duties has had for so many years in rural areas. Personally, I believe that the most significant proposal that our party has ever been able to achieve in the Federal Parliament is the abolition of death duties. 
The other two important initiatives have been the establishment of two financing schemes, one of which provides assistance in the taxation area and the other of which provides assistance in the refinancing area, to assist primary producers. I briefly mention the introduction of the income tax equalisation deposits scheme which, for the first time, is giving primary producers an opportunity, through the taxation system, to better manage their violently fluctuating incomes. The establishment of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia is providing a new source of finance to people in primary industry in Australia. 
These Bills and the policy initiatives that I have mentioned will leave the Australian wheat industry better equipped to meet volatile world trading situations and changing world economic conditions. I have no doubt they will greatly assist also in countering the impact of escalating fuel costs. I know that my party totally supports these two measures. 
-As the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who preceded me in the debate, has pointed out, these two education Bills are of a machinery nature. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech on the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill stated that the purpose of the Bill is to adjust grants to the States for government schools in respect of cost increases which have occurred since this legislation was last before the Parliament. This Bill will finalise 1978 grants. However, an additional appropriation of $ 1 .6m will be necessary, making a total allocation for the year of $639.6m. The adjustment of the 1979 grants will involve a further appropriation of $ lim which will increase the commitment of the Commonwealth for this year in this area to $673. 6m. 
The second Bill we are debating is the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill. This Bill also adjusts the approved programs of grams to the States for tertiary education for the years 1978 and 1979. It does this by providing additional amounts in the light of variations in costs between June and December 1978. In addition to supplementing the grants for 1 979 in respect of approved advanced education level courses in Technical and Further Education institutions, the Bill provides a further $485,000 for these courses. It also modifies the conditions relating to the provision of funds for special initiatives in the training of TAFE teachers in order that State instrumentalities, as well as colleges of advanced education, may become eligible to receive these grants. 
In his statement to the Senate on 19 October 1978 the Minister for Education noted that a shortfall in expenditure on the 1978 tertiary education capital programs would enable additional university and college of advanced education capital projects to commence in the second half of 1979. This Bill, therefore, also makes provision for this expenditure of up to $4. lm on the additional projects in respect of 1979, including $1,288,000 for the commencement of the Australian Graduate School of Management building. With the additional amounts that this Bill provides in respect of 1978 and 1979, the total programs of grants to the States for each sector is as follows: Universities in 1978 received $630m and in 1979 will receive $660m; colleges of advanced education received $460m in 1978 and will receive $476m in 1979; and TAFE institutions received $102m in 1978 and will receive $125min 1979 
In accordance with these new arrangements for funding non-government business colleges announced by the Minister for Edcuation on 6 December 1978, the Bill makes provisions for grants to the States for assistance to nongovernment business colleges in the 1979-81 triennium. The proposed level of assistance- $55 per student per month at December quarter 1978 cost levels up to a maximum of $550 per student per annum- is the rate which was recommended by the Tertiary Education Commission. 
Assistance in general is to be restricted to courses involving more than 20 hours of teacherclass contact a week and of more than 20 but no more than 44 weeks duration. This will not include courses leading to registrable academic awards. Assistance will not be provided for courses in colleges which have not been recognised by a relevant State regulatory authority. These provisions will provide assistance on an equitable basis in an important area of training. However, it should be appreciated that the Government is opposed to the proliferation of small business colleges and to any development of business colleges annexes by non-government secondary schools. 
These two Bills represent a fulfilment of a commitment by the Government to meet all supplementary and increased costs caused by inflation. They also indicate attempts to increase input into our technical and trade areas. I am sure that all honourable members will agree that this additional input is essential, particularly in rural areas where tertiary education opportunities are very limited. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  engaged in a fairly wide-ranging discussion of education matters. I hope that I will also be allowed to discuss briefly one or two issues that are associated with legislation of this type. I would particularly like to refer to the new trends and tendencies in our education system which have been brought about mainly because of the need for constant retraining by our work force if it is to survive in today's modern labour market. Perpetual training of modern workers is becoming a fact of life, as old jobs are disappearing and new ones are developing. This is very largely due to the spread of automation. 
Today many workers find that they must retrain three or four times during their careers. The people in the work force most affected by these rapid changes are the older workers. Young apprentices often know more about new developments in their trade than the experienced tradesmen. The apprentice has the advantage today of going to school and being taught the latest techniques. Because of this increasing problem of worker obsolescence, I believe that retraining may one day account for greater enrolment in vocational courses than in courses providing original training. At the present time a very interesting experiment is being conducted in New York at the La Guardia Community College. It appears to be accomplishing the seemingly impossible task of taking incoming students, 40 per cent of whom cannot read above an eighth-grade level, and turning them into competent, literate people. This community college attributes its success to several factors: Firstly, intensive tutoring for those who need it; secondly, a job internship program; and, thirdly, the dedication of the faculty and administrators to serving the needs pf the students. 
The work at La Guardia Community College is carried out in a busy career counselling centre where a computer gives students useful information about career options and job prospects. Like most community colleges, this one also emphasises service to the entire community. Anyone- not just the students- can walk into the career centre and receive vocational counselling. La Guardia College finds good, satisfying jobs for 98 per cent of its graduates who are seeking work. The College believes that it owes much of its success to a pre-graduate job placement program which involves career exploration, counselling and the co-operation- I believe this is the most important feature- of the business community. More than 300 employers have provided jobs for students from this College, thus giving them an opportunity to prove to themselves that they can find jobs while still in school. Students alternate periods of full time work with periods of classroom instruction. Such work greatly improves a student's chances of being offered a permanent position once he graduates. Classroom instruction also emphasises practicability, even in the arts courses. For example, a philosophy course includes a section on work ethics. Many teachers at the College hold full time jobs in industry and, therefore, can provide practical, up to the minute insights into the world of work. Regardless of whether they work in industry, the faculty and administrators have convinced the students that they really care about them. Their genuine interest is another reason for this community college's outstanding success. 
Of course, there are many unanswered questions. One unanswered question concerning the education work alliance is whether the right balance is being struck in the training received by apprentices. Today many educators argue that occupational education should be directly related to the trade because the amount of technical knowledge that must be mastered leaves no time for such art or liberal art frills. But other educators argue that precisely because of modern knowledge explosion, on the job training must also be supplemented with language skills and art type information so that students can cope with rapid changes in society in general, as well as in the world of work. However, a danger exists that these new forms will concentrate too much on training people to meet employerlabour market needs and not enough on the needs of individual workers. The amount of time that very busy community leaders can spend away from work and away from their own activities is very limited. 
There is no doubt that unemployment has emerged as one of our most pressing and political problems of the 1970s. Governments in industrial countries have been grappling with a combination of inflation and unemployment. Two features of global employment seem to stand out. One is that job shortages will worsen before they improve and it is highly unlikely that conventional economic remedies will offer sufficient relief. Already the number of prospective workers seems to be outstripping the supply for new jobs. I believe that over the years Australia has performed admirably in relation to providing education facilities from resources in this country. I am extremely pleased to see that there has been a change in the input into education, with a greater emphasis on the technical and further education area. 
Of course, we all recognise- this is one of the aspects that the Williams inquiry emphasisedthat there must be changes. I believe that the Williams inquiry was possibly not up to expectations. It seemed to generalise too much in its recommendations and in its discussion. However, it provides a basis, I believe, on which to assess the role and the relevance of education as it exists and the changes that need to be made. Of course, many of these changes have been brought about by factors quite outside our control, such as technological changes and the fact that in Australia we have zero population growth and, therefore, declining school enrolments. I believe that this Government has to respond to those factors. It will be essential and necessary for a slowing down in capital growth within our educational system. However, our institutions must offer a variety of locally needed occupational programs. They must also have continuing programs that focus on updating the skills of people working in various fields. Facilities to explore the career field must be available and they must identify a vocation that suits the goals and the personalities of students. 
Over the next few months a number of Bills relating to education will be introduced in this House. I know that they will complement the progress that has been made. Perhaps it goes without saying that whilst various new programs have been introduced through this Federal Parliament over many years, we all recognise the tremendous input that was made by the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  in the time of the Australian Labor Party Government. I do not think it is necessary for me to point out that he was rewarded for his efforts in the education field by being removed from the shadow portfolio. However, I believe that our present Minister for Education and our Government will carry on those advances which were made and which will result in an improvement and expansion of resources in the education area. Therefore, on behalf of my party, I support the two Bills that we are debating this evening. 
-The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs will be aware of inquiries from individuals and the community anxious to assist in the support, housing, settlement and adoption of refugees. Can the Minister advise the House of the procedures and assistance available through his Department or through associated voluntary organisations which would allow these offers to be accepted? 
-Has the Minister for Trade and Resources noted the recent increase in world wheat prices? What influence does he expect moves to improve co-operation between the major wheat exporting countries have had and will have on future wheat prices? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics predicts a wheat crop of 13.5 million tonnes this year, following last year's record crop of 18.4 million tonnes. Will the Minister advise the House on the likely effect of these crops on grain handling and storage facilities and the projected carry-over from last season? Can the Minister also indicate the advantages to pasture and grain industries of the depreciation changes? 
It is of real concern that young people who have left school in recent years have been facing an increasingly difficult task in obtaining employment. Youth unemployment today is four times the rate of those aged 20 years and over. For junior females in the age group of 15 to 19 years, the position is much more frustrating. Twelve per cent of junior males- one in nine- are registered as unemployed whereas 14 per cent of young femalesone in seven- are registered. For young people there has been a loss of many traditional youth jobs. Alternative jobs have been created but have required higher training and qualifications. There is no doubt that the school leaver with minimal qualifications and experience has been vulnerable and less able to cope with the system. Youth unemployment is not a temporary phase. It never has been. Patterns of unemployment are now firmly established. For this reason, I would like to discuss this socially depressing issue and what efforts are being made and should be expanded to meet this serious problem. 
I believe that we should ask to what extent the situation can be explained in terms of the working of the market place. Such explanations may help to reveal the measures needed to preserve the community's priceless assets- the selfrespect, fulfilment, incentive and productivity of our coming generations. Although sometimes regarded as an affront to human dignity, it is only realistic to recognise that there is a market for labour where supply and demand operate subject in many ways to community institutions and attitudes. In any market, many factors operate through both supply and demand. An increase of supply normally depresses prices, as when a good season brings a glut of a primary product. Over recent years, strong forces have boosted supply in the female labour market. Many women, especially married women, have found it possible and desirable to join the work force for reasons often unrelated to the level of wages available. These reasons include the attitudes towards women's liberation, a community acceptance that many married women may work, and the higher education which has given women the ability and desire to participate more actively in community affairs and business and other related influences. 
Over recent years the wages of different categories of workers in Australia have increased at different rates, but the wages of females and junior workers have risen faster than those for the work force as a whole. This has been supported by social considerations related to equal pay for equal work and other egalitarian principles. Fortunately, we in Australia, a democratic society, are free to judge such matters. However, such decisions are sometimes taken without full recognition of their longer term social and economic implications. One implication of great importance is that any increase in price offered in a market- in this case the wages of female labour- is likely to attract a greater supply. In this instance, the large potential increase of supply that was available from the ranks of married women was not only willing to respond to a higher wage, but also was probably willing to join the work force even if there had been no noticeable advance in the wage rates. Australia has thus witnessed a massive rise in female participation in the work force. Many of the positions they occupy correspond to those which would have been held by young people, both male and female who, in earlier periods would have entered the work force. At that time, lack of experience was tolerated because junior wage rates were relatively low and most young people had the will and the youthful enthusiasm to learn and progress. 
If frequently rejected some young unemployed are threatened by a serious dilemma. They may develop a cynical attitude to the whole system, charge employers with discrimination against the young or blame the irrelevancy of their education or false promises of careers at the end of their training. In some cases, false hopes mean that young people derive little satisfaction when they do in fact find jobs. Another cause of frustration or bitterness, especially prevalent in times of recession and oversupply of labour suited for junior jobs, is the practice of some employers to dismiss juniors as they become older and qualify for the sharp increases in wages required for employees over 21 years of age. Insofar as these discouraging experiences depress the interest and incentive of young workers or job seekers, their image suffers further in the minds of employers, who thus tend to favour older workers, including married women, as yielding a better return per dollar of labour cost. So another vicious circle is completed. 
Conventional wisdom held- until recentlythat a solution was to extend education so that all those trying to enter the work force would be acceptable to employers as efficient and productive workers. Allied with this is the irreproachable principle of equal education opportunity for all and this has led to the free availability of higher education for all youth. This revolution was made possible by the vast increases in funds available from governments for schools, universities and colleges, enabling students to attend with little cost, and in some cases, even to receive living allowances. This principle cannot be disputed but its implications are obvious. When employment opportunities are depressed, free access to higher education has a double attraction. While a rising proportion of young people are attracted to tertiary education for positive reasons of improving their chances of employment and careers, some are further encouraged because it provides an activity in some cases even a poor living- when the job market fails to do so. 
Unfortunately, the expansion of education has not solved the problem of matching young people's job aspirations with the needs of the work place. The additional education has often proved unnecesary to qualify young people for their first jobs. Often it has been used by employers as an aid in selecting from competing applicants. It also means that the student seeks his first job at an older age, thus requiring a higher wage because of both his age and his extra training. A further complication arises because the proportion of students, who take out their higher education in academic courses and vocational training oriented to a special skill or occupation, is not always correlated with community requirements for the respective skills acquired when the courses are completed. 
There may be a point of development at which a young person gains more, in the overall context of his life, from taking a job than from further full-time education. The imbalance of supply and demand becomes desperate in the context of apprenticeships. There are two levels of anomaly here. On the one hand, employers complain of the inadequate flow of trained tradesmenespecially in the building, mechanical and metal trades- but on the other hand, many aspiring youngsters cannot find employers to indenture them. When employers take into account the limited productive time which apprentices can spend on the job, especially in times of depressed business, their hourly cost becomes excessive. This situation has been aggravated in recent years by the extra costs loaded on to standard pay rates such as workers compensation, holiday loadings, travelling allowances and sick leave which become proportionately heavier because the apprentice is working part time. 
Various steps have been and are being taken by governments to remedy this situation, including higher subsidies for employers and attempts to improve standards of literacy and numeracy of employees before taking up an apprenticeship. The seriousness of the shortages has been revealed by the industrial training committee which has indicated that the number of skilled tradesmen in Australia declined from 1,195,000 in the 1971 census to 1,043,000 at the end of 1975. This shows a loss of 12.7 per cent in less than five years. It is critical for young people that their skills and enthusiasm are utilised and that their self respect is preserved. When vacancies are available we must have people to fill them so that the resulting activity and incomes will generate economic recovery and uphold community living standards. If the level of debate in this country continues only in a political and emotional atmosphere, this nation will stand condemned by its young generations. Massive structural change is occurring in the employment area. We have to face up to it and respond to the challenge. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether he has seen an editorial in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper earlier this week entitled Incentives and Travel'? Has the Minister read the part of the editorial which states: 
It is clear from the few official statistics that are available that, despite the introduction of cheap fares, comparatively few foreigners are selecting Australia . . . 
Can the Minister give an indication as to the accurate effect of the cheap air fares policy on the movement of tourists to and from Australia. 
-If Opposition members could become as obsessed with enthusiasm and confidence and the advantages of this great country as they are in talking us down and emphasising and exaggerating the problems that confront us, I am sure that the nation would be much better served. The financial year 1 978-79 is a time for optimism and confidence in our ability to respond to our major challenges. We do not deny that the foremost of these are unemployment and escalating energy costs. No other country in the world is better placed at this time to respond to these challenges. All the major economic indicators point to economic recovery and even boom conditions, particularly in investment in resource development and, agricultural productivity. Consumer spending in the last two months shows encouraging signs. I hope that these will continue despite the Treasury's attitude of gloom throughout some sections of the Budget Papers. 
Business activity, cash registers and the stock market have responded magnificently to the Budget- for very good reason. The massive drop in the Budget deficit which will result in less government intervention in the capital market will open up that market to the private sector and other semi-government and local government instrumentalities. If the Federal Government can get out of the capital market to a greater degree the possibility of reduced interest rates, greater business activity and greatly improved opportunities for employment will eventuate. The budgetary measure to ease further the distribution requirements for private companies will give a further impetus to small business. This change which will operate in respect of incomes for the 1978-79 year and subsequent years increases the retention allowance for trading and business incomes from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. If any policies of this Government emphasise the difference in attitude to the business community between the coalition government and an alternative Labor government, its policies relating to business do. 
What has the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said that he would do for the business community? He has said that he would raise $ 1 ,500m through higher taxes on our companies and income earners. He said that he would bring in a capital gains tax and re-introduce estate and gift duties. By increasing the Budget deficit the Labor Party would immediately set back substantial economic growth, the reduction of inflation and the downward pressure on interest rates. Australia has to look to a strong private sector if it is to reduce its worrying employment situation. Prosperous business provides jobs. This Budget provides a much needed incentive for this sector to respond. 
My electorate of Mallee relies very heavily on the good fortunes of the rural industry. Over the past 12 months we have seen a significant rise in farm incomes. In 1977-78 net farm incomes were $12,586. In 1978-79 they rose to $27,520. The latest forecast by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicates that incomes in the current year will be only slightly less than last year's peak. Associated with this greatly improved situation has been a widespread restoration in grower confidence and a natural reduction in the call made upon the Government for financial support. The sensitive nature of the rural industries to change in circumstances outside their control such as seasonal conditions and overseas market access is well recognised by the Government. There has been some criticism since the Budget that it does not contain enough consideration for primary producers. I believe that such criticism is unwarranted. It conveniently overlooks the many special provisions that have been extended by our Government to the rural sector over the last 4 years, in earlier Budgets and in times of difficulty within the agricultural sector. 
Primary producers, of course, will benefit directly from the reduction in personal taxation. They will benefit directly from the Government's reduced deficit. In particular, they will profit from the Government's successful control of inflation. How well people in my electorate remember the 1 7 per cent plus inflation rate during the Labor regime that cut the soul out of agricultural activity and expansion. How well we remember the vicious attack by the Labor Government upon our rural industries and rural people in general. My electorate will not forget the recklessness and extravagance of those Labor years. Yet it appears from the statements being made by the Leader of the Opposition and his cohorts that all those lessons have been forgotten. He has once again put forward an economic recipe that will boost the scourge of inflation and set back the renewed confidence that is evident throughout the country. 
-As the honourable member for Phillip said, he would do it again. Opposition members certainly have not learned their lessons. I believe that from the primary sector's point of view the Budget is a responsible one. It will provide scope and encouragement for increased rural efficiency while maintaining a downward pressure on costs. 
There have been some specific areas of benefit to primary producers in this Budget. I briefly mention the increase by $5m to $25m in the national water resources program. I refer to the 20 per cent per annum special depreciation allowance for on-farm storage facilities for grain, hay and fodder. This new extension will enable storage facilities to be written off over a 5-year period. In addition, we already have the special 20 per cent investment allowance which is payable on eligible storage facilities. This concession is in recognition of the serious grain storage problems- largely brought about by industrial action- which seem likely to occur in many grain producing areas at the next harvest. As I said, the situation has been seriously affected by industrial troubles as a result of which the assessment of the carry-over is now about 6 million tonnes. Even if an ordinary harvest is achieved in 1979-80 from the record 11 million hectares sown additional on-farm storages can now be considered. This Budget provision will enable grain growers to assess adequately their own onfarm storage facilities. 
-I am hopeful that that will not be necessary, but the situation in Western Australia at present indicates that it may well be necessary. The coalition Government has shown itself ready to respond to the needs of the rural industry. No one would be so foolish as to claim that government policy alone was responsible for these improved rural conditions. Climate and world export situations are obviously the major factors. However, the farming community has received a great deal of assistance in finding and securing markets for our products. So much has been done in gaining access to new markets and boosting our share of traditional outlets through forceful trade negotiations. I compliment the Australian Wheat Board on its very successful marketing activities this year. I refer particularly to the work of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and his Department for the enormous advantages he has gained for the beef industry in ensuring that 70 per cent of our exports are guaranteed on world markets. 
As a government we have made significant exchange rate adjustments. These, combined with our rural efficiency, give our primary industries a competitive edge over our major competitors. Many special interest groups in our community are starting to lose their credibility by making excessive and unwarranted demands on the public purse. We in rural industries and our organisations must ensure that we retain our credibility. Australia's rural organisations recognise that the successful implementation of long term and short term policies has improved our capacity to increase our efficiency and to meet the management difficulties caused by fluctuating incomes. 
In the wool industry there has been criticism of the reduced government input into wool promotion. We have to recognise, however, that the lift in the wool levy, which flowed from higher than expected wool prices, has assisted in the funding of promotion and research activities. No government could justify large allocations of funds to wool promotion when industry funds remain in reserves. However, an assurance has been received that any short-fall in funds for wool promotion will be made up if necessary. The sum of $22m has been allocated in this Budget for wool promotion. That amount is separate from the allocation made through grants to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for research in the wool industry. The Government has also provided a guarantee to the Australian Wool Corporation that it will maintain the wool floor price for the 1979-80 season at the minimum reserve of 3 18c per kilo. That reserve price is to apply at least at that level for the 1980-8 1 season as well. 
During the year the Government also gave consideration to the need to encourage some farmers further to put aside their larger incomes in 1 978-79 in order to meet the demands which inevitably will be made on their finances in future less rewarding years. It was for this purpose that the income equalisation deposit scheme was established, lt is a very good scheme. The wheat areas in my electorate in particular are receiving tremendous support. Of course, we are pleased with the recent decision to increase the total amount which can be deposited from $100,000 to $250,000, and the amount of gross income which can be deducted from taxable income in any one year has been increased from 40 per cent to 60 per cent. The level of funds from the income equalisation deposit scheme has risen substantially in past months from about $62m to $82m, and further substantial increases are expected. 
One of the most notable changes in rural circumstances during the last season was a marked expansion in rural credit. This has certainly been the case in regard to trading banks, which have expanded overdraft loans, term loans and farm development loan funding. In addition, the newly established Primary Industry Bank of Australia, which has the financial backing of the Government, has provided $120m since it opened its doors only 12 months ago. This very desirable development reflects the renewed confidence of financial institutions and the desire of producers to take this opportunity to invest still further in improving the efficiency of their enterprises. There is no doubt that the enormous increases that have occurred in the price of fuel over past years is of extreme concern to people throughout Australia and particularly those who live in the more remote country areas. 
I do not intend at this time to discuss this issue to any extent. However, I believe that the Government should go ahead immediately with implementing the fuel price equalisation scheme to the full extent. This would have a major impact on bringing fuel costs in rural areas more in line with prices paid in the metropolitan regions of Australia. The Budget has been widely acclaimed as being one which assists the private sector and the business sector of the Australian community. But it is also a Budget which has made some very substantial changes in the social areas. I mention two areas which were of great concern to pensioners. In the light of economic and budgetary circumstances, we have been able to restore twice-yearly indexation of pensions and to extend the pensioner fringe benefit area. As a result of these changes the Government will be introducing legislation to amend the Social Services Act. That amending legislation will enable pension payments to be increased automatically in May and November each year in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. These changes will affect age, invalid and widows' pensions, supporting parents' benefits, wives' pensions, sheltered employment allowances and sickness benefits for all people aged 18 years or over, as well as the unemployment benefit paid to people aged 18 years and over or people with dependants and to all married people aged 1 6 or 1 7 years. 
I am getting to the changes that are to be made in the repatriation area. Of course, it is in that area that one of the most significant changes is to be made to the social welfare area, but probably a more important change is the extension of Commonwealth fringe benefits. Formerly a pensioner lost all his fringe benefits if his private income reached $33 a week, or $57.50 a week if he was married. Accordingly, the Government has decided to increase these limits to $40 a week for a single pensioner and $68 a week for a married pensioner, recognising that these amounts should be higher when there are children. It has already been estimated that some additional 25,000 pensioners plus 5,000 dependants will now qualify for pensioner health benefit cards as a result of budgetary changes. 
It is pleasing to me, as it is obviously pleasing to other Government members that we have also decided to restore through the Minister for Veterans' Affairs the rights of tuberculosis pensioners and to bring about many other improvements in benefits for our war veterans. I recognise that these will be very well received throughout our electorates. These changes are welcome, and I think we should all recognise that we will not be able to continue to increase our support to the underprivileged and needy people in society, unless our country is productive and profits are being made by our business sector. 
I mentioned briefly the role of local government in our community and particularly the recognition that this Government gives to local government. Local government is a major employer in many areas. It is the provider of many of our basic services and of course it maintains many of our community facilities. In particular, local government is better placed in our community to meet and to recognise the needs of individuals. I am pleased that in the last few months we have recognised this need and have decided to increase the percentage of personal income tax collections shared by other local government authorities from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. I am not aware of what these increases mean in total throughout Australia but, on being advised today of our allocations, I am aware that this means an increase of some 20 per cent in the funds available in my electorate, where 18 municipalities will receive some $3,450,000. Of course, we have also made a quite significant increase in road grants to local government. This year there is to be a 7.5 per cent increase. I only hope that our State governments will allow these increased funds to find their way back into the road system and will not divert this contribution into some other area. 
The Opposition in this House is continually attacking those people in our community who create wealth. By doing this, I am quite sure the Opposition is seeking to destroy the incentive of these people and in doing so will set back the long term benefits that can be given to those in need. This year the Government will spend some $32,000m. It has become clear that, to a large extent, the Government has become a massive agency for collecting money on one hand and handing it back to the people and the States on the other hand. The cost of operating this agency is enormous. I believe that the average Australian expects that he has a responsibility to have part of his income redistributed for essential and humane requirements. Basically what he earns, however, he wants to use as he wishes. Many people in our community forget that the money that the Government spends is their money. If the community demands that the Government spend more money the community must recognise that the Government must collect more money. If the Government wants to reduce its spending the community must stop asking for so much to be done. Of course, everyone, in our community agrees that taxes are too high and that government spending should be cut. 
The very interesting thing is that they all agree that government spending should be cut but only in areas that do not affect them. Some people even perform the feat of asking for tax cuts on the one hand and higher spending on the other hand. 
I support this Budget. I maintain that its main intent is to give a boost to confidence and a new optimism for expansion, development, reduced unemployment and economic security for all our people. This country has one of the highest living standards in the world. We have high wages and good working conditions but, more importantly and as this Budget recognises, we have the potential to further increase our living standard and further broaden our industrial resource base. By keeping inflation under control we will ensure that our exporting industries are prosperous and can meet the world demand for better quality food, fibre and raw materials. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a recent statement that the New South Wales Government intends to legislate to impose a ceiling on the price of stock feed and industrial wheats. As the new wheat plan involves Commonwealth and State complementary legislation and as the Australian wheat growers have agreed to these prices being determined by market forces alone, does this New South Wales decision threaten the effectiveness of the new five-year wheat scheme? 
-The Minister of Primary Industry will be aware of an impending threat of a locust plague throughout many inland regions of Australia in coming weeks. Can he say what action the Government has taken to implement a control campaign through the Australian Plague Locust Commission to cope with this impending outbreak? 
-Will the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House of the arrangements being made to ensure this season's first payment to wheat growers? Can he also indicate when the new wheat stabilisation legislation will be introduced and whether the New South Wales objections have been overcome so that no ceiling will be placed on the price of industrial and stock-feed wheat? 
-I ask the Minister for Special Trade Representations: As the European Economic Community is to be enlarged from nine to 12 member states, what steps is the Government taking to safeguard Australia's trading interests, particularly in respect of dried and canned fruits? 
-by leave-The report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation is significant for three major reasons. Firstly, it is significant because the Government is presently reviewing this legislation that is considered in this report. The two pieces of legislation under consideration are the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975. Secondly, the report is significant because for the first time a forum has been provided through this inquiry by our Committee for widespread comment and assessment. Thirdly, the report is significant because although political representatives of the three parties were members of the Committee the recommendations were agreed on with unanimity. 
I do not intend to delay the business of this Parliament. I will make few comments on the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act except to say that the Committee fully recognises the role of the State governments and their environmental responsibilities. However, it also recognises the contribution that this Act has had in developing industry awareness, government awareness at the three levels of government and a public awareness of this nation's resources and the need for their exploitation under conditions that ensure adequate environmental protection. I firmly believe that the Commonwealth while not impinging upon States rights and, I emphasise, State responsibilities must ensure that we as a Commonwealth retain the right to investigate and the ability to assess any proposals being undertaken which are of national significance. 
This report makes several recommendations on amendment of the Australian Heritage Commission Act. I wish to record the most important of these amendments in  Hansard.  Recommendation 16 suggests that the Act be amended to provide that only nominated places be included on the interim list of the Australian Heritage Commission register. Recommendation 17 suggests that an amendment should provide 'that property owners, and persons and organisations with identifiable interests, and local authorities be notified in writing by the Commission of a decision to proceed with the listing of a nominated place' and 'that notification of a decision by the Commission should be made no later than the time at which the Commission advertises its intention to take action in relation to a nominated place'. Recommendation 18 suggests that an amendment should be made 'to provide for the establishment of a confidential register on which secret Aboriginal sites are to be listed '. The other recommendation I would like recorded is No. 1 9 that suggests that amendment should be made to include provisions which require the hearing of objections and a determination of the need to list a site within 12 months of the receipt of that objection. If a determination has not been made at the end of that period the proposal to list the nominated place shall lapse. 
The Australian Heritage Commission Act has found acceptance in the Australian community despite earlier misunderstandings of its intent. It is seen as a vital legislative force in conserving, improving and presenting the National Estate. The Committee believes that the recommendations included in this report will improve the adequacy of the existing legislative and administrative arrangements. I urge the Government to take full consideration of this report and the implications if any major decisions that would not result in the effective management of Australia 's natural resources or of our environment were implemented. I join with the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  in paying tribute to the  Clerk  to the Committee and the many staff members who served during the time of this inquiry. 
I rise to support these measures, which are aimed at bringing about ordinary marketing in the canned fruit industry. In particular, I rise to mention and give some recognition to the work of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in the development of this legislation. The canned fruit industry has made several attempts over many years, particularly through the growers sector, to obtain an ordinary marketing scheme and they were either rejected or criticised by industry leaders. In December 1979 a deputation, supported by the honourable member for Murray, saw the then Minister for Primary Industry and requested his support for an investigation into the feasibility of such a scheme. In April 1977 this matter was referred to the Canned Fruits Board and it, in turn, established a committee which was responsible for looking at the feasibility of this proposal and other proposals that were developed at that time. Finally, a proposal was developed which was basically along the lines of the dairy industry scheme; that is, using the Commonwealth's power to levy production and use that as a stabilising mechanism. 
After considerable discussion and communication throughout the canning fruit areas of Australia, particularly the Goulburn Valley, the proposals as laid down were successful. Once the concept of the scheme was studied by the people in that area and the then Minister's determination for a decision to be reached was made known to these people, action was fairly swift. Eventually an acquisition scheme similar to that of the wheat industry, rather than a levy scheme, was accepted by the industry. But the proposal remained the same- that is, the Canned Fruit Board will acquire the fruit crop and sell it back to the individual canners who will market the fruit in their own names. However, there will be certain pricing arrangements that will prevent unnecessary price cutting. Returns will be equalised within two pools. Because of the more orderly marketing which will result the Reserve Bank of Australia, with a Government backed guarantee, will improve the advance rates to growers so that both grower and cannery liquidity will be improved. Of course, the scheme will also bring a number of other improvements to the industry. 
I think it is fair to point out that there has been some disagreement over the membership of the Canned Fruits Corporation, particularly grower membership. I believe that this has now been resolved satisfactorily as far as the canning fruit industry is concerned. I should also mention that the States have been critical of the Commonwealth for not including them in earlier discussions on the development of these proposals. However, the sad record of the States in negotiating sensible Commonwealth-State agreements for agricultural commodities as distinct from point scoring, one off the other and off the Commonwealth, meant that the Commonwealth was not prepared to put the proposals to the States until it had complete agreement of all sectors of the fruit industry. As I have mentioned, great credit is due to all those involved in the industry- particularly the honourable member for Murray. Once they became convinced of the practicability of the scheme, the sincerity of the Government and a need for better marketing and financial arrangements, they gave it their support. Two Labor speakers tonight have mentioned a few - 
Order! I warn the honourable member. There is no substance in the point of order. 
-Two speakers from the Australian Labor Party Opposition mentioned a few things in passing which I think should be referred to. I do not believe that the Opposition had a very good record of assistance to the canning fruit industry when it was in Government. For instance, prior to the 1972 election campaign the Labor Party, particularly its spokesman on agriculture,  Dr Patterson,  said in this House in a debate on the fruit growing industry that Labor would ease the means test on the tree pull scheme to make it easier for people to remove fruit trees. What happened after Labor was elected in December 1 972? Absolutely nothing. I suggest that the Labor speakers tonight might do well to remember that the Labor Government ignored the requests of fruit growers for an easing of the means test so that fruit acreages could be reduced in the Goulburn Valley. It reneged on that promise made prior to the 1 972 election. 
I refer also to the diversification in which the Labor Party suggested it was interested at that time. The Ardmona Fruit Products Co-operative Limited spent more than $2m in installing a fruit juice plant of the most modern type in the world to concentrate a variety of juices, particularly pear juice. This was to enable more pears to be utilised. That cannery had signed a contract with a well known soft drink manufacturer to use pear juice in soft drinks. But in its 1973 Budget, the Labor Government abolished the sales tax exemption for aerated waters in which 5 per cent fruit juice was added. I do not intend to develop the detail of this legislation as it is well known. But I think I should point out that the Corporation will not at any time undertake the marketing of canned fruits. As part of the overall arrangements made with the industry the Corporation, as owner of the fruits, will always appoint agents nominated by canners to sell the fruit on its behalf at prices and on terms and conditions of sale set by it. Perhaps the most important advance for the canning fruit industry is that the Corporation will also be empowered to borrow from the Reserve Bank under Commonwealth guarantee. This will be done to finance purchases of canned fruit. 
-I thank the honourable member for Isaacs for his support. The guaranteed Reserve Bank advances will initially be limited to 70 per cent of average estimated realisations. It is a major objective of the scheme that with better marketing arrangements and Reserve Bank funding, payments by canners to growers for their fruit will show a considerable improvement both in respect of earlier payments and increased returns. 
We support this Bill. I believe that it will bring great stability to the canning fruit industry and in particular will remove some of the difficulties that developed in 1975. At that time we saw a major collapse in the industry's overseas markets and it lost $3m to $4m. Of course, there were many reasons why the canning fruit industry ran into very serious problems. Perhaps one of the main reasons was the loss of overseas markets during the 1970s. The first and most important reason was Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. At that time Australia changed from a situation of tariff preferences in our favour to preferences and levies against us. The second reason was increased freight rates and the third was devaluation. As a result, in a little over three years the price at which South Africa could sell its fruit on the United Kingdom market dropped in relation to our price by over 30 per cent. During the early 1970s there was another reason why the canning fruit industry was placed in severe danger; I refer to runaway inflation in Australia. This was fuelled and stoked by the Labor Government. Australia's inflation rate was particularly high compared with the rates of inflation of our two major competitors, South Africa and the United States of America. 
Complementary State legislation will enable the new Australian Canned Fruit Corporation to assume ownership of production and to manage marketing within the State of production. The Commonwealth Bill empowers the Corporation to manage the marketing of canned fruits in export and interestate markets and in the Territories except in Western Australia and Tasmania. As the Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry (  Mr Adermann)  said in his second reading speech, the canned fruit industry is an important horticultural industry. Of course, it is wholly located in decentralised areas and provides the basic economic and social foundation of the population, particularly in the Goulburn Valley region of Victoria. As the honourable member for Riverina said, it is also an important component of the economic basis of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area of New South Wales and the Riverland region of South Australia. The value of this very important industry in Australia exceeds $70m. I support this Bill. I recognise the work done by many members of the rural committee of our joint parties in assisting to develop this legislation, particularly the work carried out in co-operation with the industry by the honourable member for Murray. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
