-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Cabinet he dominates in a number of respects are reminiscent of the Administration of Richard Nixon: They will continue as long as they are able to retain a capacity to mislead the public into believing that promises mean more than performance, that mythology can masquerade as truth and that the mere repetition of assertions of higher morality will act as a certain cover for dishonesty, deceit and, at times, corruption. Nowhere is the penchant for dishonest misrepresentation made clearer than in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech.  His Excellency  said: 
My Government  rededicates  itself to govern for all Australians and to work in partnership with all groups to build an Australia in which its people can have security, the knowledge that they can plan ahead with assurance, and that their efforts will be rewarded. 
Towards the end of the Speech, the GovernorGeneral said: 
While the objectives my Government has set itself have been endorsed unequivocally by the majority of the Australian people, my Government is determined to act as a Government of the whole and not a Government for the majority alone. 
Its trust is to all the people of Australia, and its concern is for all- all section, all groups, and all interests who care and serve this great country  of ours 
What hypocrisy! What cant! There has never been a government in the history of this nation which has sought more to destroy the possibility of a national consensus, which has worked harder to deceive and mislead the Australian public about its basic purposes and whose policies, as opposed to its promises, were more designed to underline and reinforce the basic divisions which exist in Australian society. 
The Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after forcing an election with tactics which destroyed effectively, perhaps for all time, the convention that a government that continues to have a majority in the lower House has a right to expect to govern. As a new member of this the people's House, I want to make it clear that it is my view that there can not be any consensus about the democratic process in Australia until the issues raised by the tactics and actions of successive leaders of the Liberal and National Country Party Oppositions in 1974 and 1975 are resolved. It is simply beyond credibility to believe that this Government is genuinely interested in establishing a national, as opposed to a partisan, approach to the political problems facing this nation while it leaves unhealed the divisions which it was substantially responsible for creating in 1975. That is not to suggest that I believe it is in the short term interests of this side of the House to dwell unnecessarily on the events of the second half of 1975: Rather that the Australian people will forget those events at their peril. 
The Fraser Government forfeited its right to become a government of national consensus by the means it chose first to achieve power. It is made quite clear in the Governor-General's Speech that no energy is to be devoted by this Government to reforming the nation's Constitution so that it does ensure the basic political equality of all Australians. It is clear that this Government does not believe that political equality is one of those matters which unite all Australians or, more importantly, that political equality is basic to giving Australians a greater measure of choice, power and freedom. 
The Fraser Government, which, as I have suggested, has shown little or no interest in these questions, has worked systematically in all other areas of government policy to destroy the possibilities of further movement in this society towards the principal aims of the Whitlam Government- greater social and economic equality. It has sought to prefer and advance the interests of particular groups of wealthy and privileged people rather than to seek any overall improvement in the living conditions of ordinary Australians. The Government's priorities are clearly demonstrated in its approach to the problems of inflation and unemployment. During the past two years, the Government has given clear priority to the struggle against inflation. The principal policies which have been designed to defeat inflation have been those of wage restraint and restriction on the availability of credit. These measures have been designed to reduce the real standards of living of working people and to limit their capacity to consume additional goods. On the other hand, the investment and depreciation allowances have been designed to encourage industry to replace workers with capital equipment and effectively to reduce the number of employees necessary to maintain existing and hopefully increased levels of production. 
A direct result of these policies insofar as they have had an effect or reinforced a trend has been to encourage the rate of growth in levels of unemployment so that we have now reached the situation where more than 450,000 people or 7 per cent of the work force are unemployed. People are increasingly remaining unemployed for longer periods of time. The average duration of unemployment in 1977 was 19.5 weeks compared with 6.3 weeks in 1973. In November  1977  more than  34,000  Australians had been un employed for more than a year. There is increasing evidence that some of the people who are being employed are often employed only part time and that the various employer subsidy schemes of the Government are resulting in the displacement of established employees with the unemployed. Unemployment is hitting women more harshly than men and the hardest hit of all are the recently arrived migrants. 
The Government constantly seeks to minimise the impact of unemployment and its effect on people's lives. Despite research which establishes that there are no significant differences between the values of the unemployed and comparable people in employment with respect to the work ethic, the Government continues to take a punitive attitude towards the unemployed. This attitude is paralelled by the Government's attitude to the trade union movement, which is subject to continuing criticism and the introduction of intimidatory legislation. No doubt the maintenance of high rates of unemployment, the absence of job creation programs or stimulatory measures, and the Government's influence in resisting wage increases has had its effect on inflation. 
However, these policies can hardly be described as forming the basis for any sort of consensus or social contract. On the contrary, they indicate that the unemployed and the militant or even defensive trade unions are not numbered amongst the Australians for whom the Government has concern. Let us take, for example, the Government's introduction of tax cuts, which are often presented by it as a concession to the trade union movement. What is the reality? It is that the ordinary worker can expect to benefit by no more than  $3  a week. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in Melbourne has estimated that, by contrast, the top  10V4  per cent of income earners get  43  per cent of the benefit from all tax cuts. The Prime Minister- the man who is so concerned about  all  Australians- gets an additional  $70  a week. He wants to look after John Kerr. He wants to look after his mates. Above all, he wants to look after himself. 
The Fraser Government, rather than having any record or will for consensus, is constantly driven by a need to identify scapegoats; to divide the world into workers and bludgers, the admirable and the reprehensible. Its judgments are often simplistic and even contradictory. It suited Malcolm Fraser to suggest that the Australian Labor Party had forgotten that the vast bulk of resource allocation decisions are made by private individuals, companies and commercial organisations which are subject to Government direction and /or control only in a limited way. All honourable members will remember the talk about four out of every five jobs being in the private sector. The reality is that in recent years in Australian governments of either political persuasion have found it less and less possible to influence and/or control the investment policies of major industrial and finance capital. That fundamentally is the problem about which the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  was speaking but, of course, he could not say anything about big business because he belongs to its party. 
The McMahon Government failed to control the massive direction of capital from overseas and within Australia into speculative mining ventures. Similarly, the Whitlam Government could not direct the pattern of speculative land investment in accordance with its strategies for metropolitan and non-metropolitan growth. We think that that was largely because of the opposition of Liberal Party controlled State governments. Likewise, the Fraser Government faces massive outflows of capital at a time when it claims it is stimulating investment in the industrial and mining sectors. It appears more than likely that what capital is attracted to large scale ventures will result in the expropriation of huge profits, along the lines of the Utah Development Co., and in the creation of only a miniscule number of jobs for Australian workers. The tendency present in conservative governments towards the 'blame the victim' syndrome, constant denigration of the unemployed and union bashing simply distracts attention from the fundamental problem which faces national democracies such as Australia to establish effective democratic control over national resources and their utilisation. 
International and domestic monopolistic capital is able to override the interests of national governments and to determine the conditions which exist in the smaller scale and competitive economic sectors. I think that is what the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  said. He said that the conditions under which small business operates are set time and again by the big boys, by the people who control the goods being supplied and the raw materials, and who are vertically integrated. We can talk about big being beautiful and large scale being efficient, but let us not at the same time say that we are on the side of small business because we are not and the Liberal Party is not. It is about time small business people recognise that fact. It is increasingly clear that the Australian private economic system is divided into competitive and non-competitive sectors and that government subsidies tend above all to favour the monopolistic and large scale or non-competitive sector. It is simply nonsensical to claim, as the Prime Minister claimed at the Melbourne Stock Exchange last year, that: 
We are committed to a system where worthwhile free enterprise can flourish. 
Imagine the wooden way in which he said it. He continued: 
Our commitment is not simply founded on the fact that free enterprise is the most efficient economic system, or the most efficient producer of the resources required to provide a better life for all Australians though it is both of these. We support free enterprise because it is - 
What a joke! the most democratic system. 
The Prime Minister knows that the greatest freedom to experiment and innovate is present in the larger scale sectors in Australia where competition is reduced to the absolute minimum, but where capital is available on a scale which permits research, experimentation, evaluation and a rational approach to the development of company and corporate policy. It is when industry is shielded from the full rigours of competition that so-called 'risk taking' is possible. Indeed it is in this sector in the giant companies, often internationally owned, that there occurs a process of planning which in many respects is most akin to the public sector planning which the Prime Minister so strongly rejected in his speech in Melbourne. I wish to quote from Stuart Holland who I believe is an important thinker in relation to the question of international capital. He shows the situation clearly when he points out: . . . decisions over the allocation of societal resources are no longer - 
In Britain and I think we could say in Australia- mainly determined by family firms. But nor are they mainly determined by governments. They lie in the board rooms of the handful! of giant firms in the meso-economic sector which have come to constitute the commanding heights of the economy. 
That is, the top 200 firms. Eighty-seven of the top 200 firms in Australia are overseas controlled and employ 50 per cent of all of the people employed in the manufacturing industry. Stuart Holland goes on: 
Britain, like other capitalist economies, still carries a parasitic and numerically small class of personal shareholders on these companies . . . but the crucial power over the allocation of resources either in Britain or abroad lies with a miniscule class of enormously powerful top managers. 
Of course there is evidence to suggest that the concentration of power in the oligopolistic sector in Australia is as significant, if not as great, as in Britain. It is fundamentally important for any serious analysis- not for honourable members who get up in the House and rattle on, but for any serious analysis of economic problems- to make a distinction between the competitive sector which the Government claims it is interested in and the monopolistic sector which we know damn well provides the funds for its campaigns and has the controlling say in its party room. If the Prime Minister is committed to the Governor-General's word- I do not believe he is- about 'giving the men and women of Australia a greater measure of choice, power and freedom' it is to this corporate sector that he must turn. In his 1975 policy speech  Mr Fraser  referred to the need to create more democratic structures in the trade union movement and to reduce and make more accessible and responsible the government bureaucracy. 
Where are the measures mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech? Where are the measures that were mentioned in  Her  Majesty's Speech last year designed to make the major corporations more accountable to the Australian Government, their shareholders, and their employees? In what ways are these giant combines to be made accountable and democratically responsible to the Australian people? Until this thorny nettle is grasped no government can afford to have taken seriously rhetoric about governing on behalf of all Australians. The Labor Party is committed to the introduction of economic planning of the utilisation of Australia's physical and human resources on a democratic basis. No one could possibly argue that major insurance companies, banks, finance companies and multinational combines operate democratically or even that they are subject to the restraints of market forces, as the Prime Minister has suggested. There is a real sense in which these corporations represent a form of private socialism. The task ahead is to convert that reality to democratic socialism. 
The Government has made it clear that it is prepared to take on the trade union movement. If it is committed to achieving consensus as opposed to conflict it should also indicate that it is prepared to take on major capital. For example, the introduction of a resources tax as proposed by the Labor Party would transfer funds, for example, from Utah Development Company's overseas shareholders to job creating prospects in Australian cities, and for that matter in Australian rural areas. The Fraser Government pretends to be a strong government. In fact it is composed of union bashing bullies who shrink "-- n confrontation with large scale capital even v when it clearly operates in a way which is detrimental to the interests of the Australian people. 
At various points in the Governor-General's Speech the increasingly diverse nature of Australian society is acknowledged. A commitment is entered into 'to care for or show concern for all sections, all groups and all interests '. The electorate of Batman which I represent is a diverse electorate within the north-eastern corridor of the City of Melbourne. It bears the marks of the rundown in manufacturing industry and it has high levels of unemployment- 10,000 people in the region are unemployed and only 400 jobs are available. The vast majority of the people living in the electorate are ordinary working people who have been suffering over the past two years from a systematic reduction in their living standards 'the little people' that we hear so much about from the other side. This is reflected in the situation of small business in the area, which is currently depressed and facing depressed circumstances. Nothing has been done for small business by the Liberal-National Country Party Governments in the past 26 years. 
During the Labor Party's term in office people in Batman received certain limited gains. Improvements were made in education, community health centres were established, research was made into social and environmental problems and possibilities were opened up via the area improvement program. Funds were made available for improvements in public transport. Migrants received assistance via welfare rights programs and were able to establish more effective communication through ethnic and community radio. Local government benefited from the creation of direct grants from the Federal Government through the Grants Commission. In many respects these funds that flowed and the resources that were made available were only marginal compared to the needs and the problems that existed. 
It is not possible to sweep away the mark of discrimination and inequality in two or three years. Batman has suffered because this Government, which talks so much about consensus and accord, in a totally partisan manner decided to sweep away the entire urban program which Labor established. The result is that while needs were established and exciting possibilities outlined, they have been put to one side. The 
Fraser Government was prepared to waste thousands of hours of paid and voluntary effort simply because it wanted to sweep away every trace of Labor's concern for the cities of this nation. If the Prime Minister wants to govern for the people of my electorate, he should commit himself to providing funds for job creation programs. People appreciate support while they are unemployed, but more than anything else they want the opportunity to participate in meaningful and useful work. 
My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, follows that asked by the honourable member for Bonython regarding the ballooning of the Budget deficit. I ask the Treasurer why it is that estimates made only six months ago did not anticipate the full impact of rising unemployment. Is it a fact that unemployment benefits were underestimated by as much as $200m, indicating a worsening of the unemployment situation? Further, do the shortfalls in revenue indicate that the state of the economy, at least with respect to unemployment, is much worse than the Government anticipated? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Given the low priority given by the Government to manpower planning can the Minister explain: Firstly, the criteria upon which job categories are developed for application to persons intending to migrate to Australia; and secondly, whether there has been an easing of restrictions on formal qualifications required by intending migrants who wish to enter skilled job categories? 
suggests that the Government either does not understand, or more likely does not want to understand, and does not want to come to grips with basic problems facing this nation. The various clauses of the amendment itemise some of those problems, although the full force of the amendment becomes clearer when one examines particular sections of the Governor-General's Speech. It has become too easy in Parliament for people to gloss over basic intentions and policies either by concentrating on the vaguest of generalities or, alternatively, by confining debate to the details of very specific and narrow pieces of legislation. Government is, after all, about the ordering of society's priorities with respect to the whole range of resource allocation decisions. Its effectiveness cannot be properly measured by the latest unemployment and /or inflation statistics taken in isolation. Indeed, in some respects, one of this Government's principal aims is to restrict the attention of the voter to a narrow range of economic indicators and to avoid any form of relevant discussion of its overall policies and programs. 
I believe, for example, that a careful analysis of the Government's policies with respect to transport- in that regard I want to talk about urban transport- clearly reveals that this Government is not what it purports to be and, indeed, that it is not serious about the high sounding objectives that are set out at the beginning of the Governor-General 's Speech. Despite the fact that transport expenditure in Australia represents more than 13 per cent of gross national expenditure of almost $ 10,000m per annum, the subject barely rates a mention either in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in November of last yearperhaps that is the more significant- or in the Governor-General's Speech. Given the fact that the transport industry has a central place in the economy, employs hundreds and thousands of workers and involves very large scale organisational resources in both the public and private sectors, that is surprising. It is surprising that the Government fails to recognise the central importance of transport policy for the health of the nation's economy. Thus it was possible for the Governor-General to promise 'a national energy conservation program' without making any suggestion that such a program might have implications for national transport policy. 
According to the Department of Transport's annual report for 1 976-77 the transport sectors in Australia account for about 37 per cent of the nation's final energy consumption and about 60 per cent of its consumption of petroleum products. It is highly dependent on oil supplies, in that 99 per cent of the energy used in transport is derived from an oil base. Further the rate of consumption of liquid petroleum fuels in transport has been greater than the average increase in the average rate of oil consumption. For example, in 1975-76, the consumption of motor spirit and automotive distillate increased by 3.9 per cent and 4.6 per cent respectively over consumption in 1974-75, which increase was well above the one per cent increase in oil consumption of all petroleum products. In all, road transport accounts for 79 per cent of total transport energy use, with the private motor vehicle using 57 per cent of total transport energy. 
The report underlines the fundamental contradiction which is built into the nation's transport program when it refers to the near certainty of Australia's reversal to overwhelming dependency on imported oil in the 1 980s at a time of a mounting world wide petroleum crisis. The report states: 
Australia is rich in energy resources with substantial known reserves of coal and uranium but these resources are not suited to meet transport needs, given existing transport technology with its dependence on liquid petroleum fuels. 
The solution to this problem does not he in the hands of technology alone, as the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  seemed to suggest earlier. It is fundamentally a political problem. The redirection of the resources which have been invested in a land based transport system involves challenging the authority of whole industries which are controlled by capital, which in turn is not subject to effective Australian control and direction. Furthermore, those industries now employ directly and indirectly hundreds and thousands of workers who are vulnerable to any important change that the Government might evince. It is not as if only the automobile industry were involved; also involved are fringe industries such as the dealers, the garages and the service centres. Then this industry is caught in a wider web of the also internationally owned and controlled oil companies, the financiers, the rubber companies, the road construction firms and so on. At a time when energy policy above all demands change, the complexity of the infrastructure and above all the concentration of power in the hands of large scale capital makes the most effective and responsible change difficult to achieve. 
Of course, while the energy crisis makes the need for a fresh approach to land based transport in Australia compelling, especially with respect to Australian cities, there are other factors involved as well. The number of automotive accidents, including the deaths of 3,500 Australians each year, represents an enormous loss of potential life. We can add to that the 100,000 reported injuries each year, with the concomitant costs to the nation in loss of production, of health and the expensive treatment which often extends over the balance of an injured persons 's life. Those costs are rarely calculated and yet they represent a major loss of annual production and contribute largely to the nation's health bill. Why do not those people who want to cut health costs have a look at this problem? There is no doubt that even the partial adoption of an alternative transport system would do much to reduce the nation 's health bill and to compensate for the vast losses in productivity resulting from death and injury on the nation 's roads. 
Alongside those who suffer the direct effects of collisions on the road are the more subtle effects of environmental pollution. I refer, for example, to the problem of air pollution, carbon monoxide liberated in large quantities from automobile exhausts is a respiratory poison. More than 38 lb from every 10 gallons of petrol is released and one could go on. Photochemical smog, causing pain and irritation to the eyes and lungs, is produced by the effects of sunlight and substances in the car exhausts. Lead, which is a particularly poisonous element, is discharged into the atmosphere in Australia at the rate of 14,000 tons per annum. The problem of noise pollution might also be added. 
Perhaps even more seriously is the ever escalating tendency for cities and living environments to be shaped by the private motor vehicle. During the post-war period in Australia and in other comparable countries governments have been goaded by the powerful financial, industrial and automobile association lobby groups to spend almost unlimited funds on roads and other improvements designed to promote without limit the use of a motorised vehicle for every transport task, no matter how inappropriate or no matter what the cost to the non-user or to the urban environment. There has been no sense of a hierarchy of appropriate transport modes, no sense of the need to rationalise the different systems in existence, no consideration of the sensitive interrelationship between land use planning and transport planning. Let us hear some more about the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. 
Debate interrupted. 
-It cannot be over emphasised that, through a lack of commitment to responsible planning, we have allowed the growth of cities that are designed to force up transport costs and which are therefore inherently inflationary in character. The costs associated with unplanned urban development rise exponentially and it is the responsibility of government to ensure that this spatial cause of inflation is attacked properly. The worker pays for a lowering of his standard of living while large scale authorities luxuriate in their engineering skills. In some respects, the whole debate about energy and transport in the Australian city has been focussed around the construction of urban freeways. At a time in the early 1970s when commonsense dictated a multi-model and more flexible approach to urban transport, increasingly large resources were put into a single moderoads and road based transport. The most dramatic example of the imbalance of priorities which has been characteristic of Australian transport planning has been the attempts made in almost every Australian city to construct urban freeways, a form which is intrinsically alien to the urban environment. 
The urban freeway has been the subject of extended battles of which one of the most bitterly fought has been the struggle to impose freeways on inner Melbourne and in particular, to build the now notorious Eastern Freeway. This freeway is one of the few remaining projects which has survived the now totally discredited Melbourne transportation plan. The freeway, which has been subject to a number of studies and modifications, is designed to carry traffic from Ringwood, with a connection to Dandenong, through the Koornung Creek Valley and the Yarra Bend National Park to Alexander Parade, a tree-lined avenue and recreation area which divides the historic inner suburbs of Collingwood and Fitzroy. 
Since 1969, road authorities in Melbourne have been endeavouring to persuade local councils and residents to accept initially an 8-lane freeway through their municipalities. Residents and councillors have together resisted every overture and even a handsome bribe in the belief that the expected traffic volume of 70,000 vehicles a day would destroy the social environment. Finally, after a belated study in 1976 and negotiations with local government last year, the Victorian Minister of Transport lost patience and sent in more than 400 police to assist the Country Roads Board at about 3 a.m. to force the removal of council-placed restrictive paving and to erect the necessary signalling. The police acted mainly against local residents, women and children, whose only interest was to save their neighbourhood from the ravages of traffic. 
Scenes such as that in Alexander Parade illustrate the fundamental contradictions which are built into a system of transport which does not respect physical and social differences, which takes no account of differential costs and benefits and which can be justified only by engineers and bureaucrats who have lost all awareness of the changing need of priorities in the light of the factors which I have been outlining in this speech. Unfortunately, the present Government, as in so many other areas, has allowed the Environmental Protection Act to be watered down so that we now have the absurd situation in Victoria where in my own electorate in the City of Heidelberg in respect of the Bell Street-Banksia Street connection, the construction authority is carrying out its own impact studies. This project is subject to no external study and the local communities have lost all power to influence transport planning decisions. The F1 9 or Eastern Freeway experience totally makes nonsense of this Government's commitment to devolution, to asserting the rights of local government and to conserving the social environment. 
It is not possible in a speech of this length to do much more than open up problems within the context of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Suffice to say that the field of transport is a rich field for a government which wishes to confront the problem of unemployment, which wishes to raise productivity and which wishes to provide a proper framework for an industry to plan and to protect and to enhance people's rights as citizens. It would seem to me that the Government's commitment of $60m a year for the next five years to urban public transport is trivial, if not laughable, and indicates a complete lack of grasp by the Government of the problems which demand to be faced. According to my reading of the Bureau of Transport Economics report entitled 'Urban Capital Requirements: 1977-78', urban public transport could use more than $ 1,000m over the next three years. It could certainly use $2 1 5m for existing projects and $500m for new projects. 
Assuming a 40 per cent share from the Commonwealth, this would require $U2m in 1974-75 prices and allowing for inflation, the figure should be at least $ 1 50m or two and a half times what is proposed by the Government over the next five years. I ask honourable members to remember what we have been spending on roads, unchallenged and unscrutinised, apart from looking after the rural electorates and the rural local roads, every year since the war. 
A more serious commitment could begin a process of moving resources, particularly people, within the transport industry across to a field which will become more and more important in the years ahead. To fail to do so would be to fail to grasp the nettle of opposition to all those vested interests which will continue to benefit from short term rather than long term and future oriented policies. The cost of the present unbalanced urban public transport systems will become increasingly large, particularly if proper account is not taken of the indirect costs which I have specified. The benefits of shifting gear in a time of excess capacity and economic recession would be great. Finally, the Government would begin to make possible affirmation of rights of those people who have been victimised by past policies and who are very often being denied the most basic of human rights. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
-The Hospitals and Health Services Commission produced a discussion paper on paying for health care which, despite the limitations of its terms of reference and the obvious predilection of this Government to blame the victim, got to the heart of the matter of the reasons for escalating health costs. It is unfortunate that the logic of the paper's central thrust is not followed with stronger and more specific recommendations, save in the area of asking for more money from health consumers. The subject of the paper is controversial, for several reasons. Firstly, the Commission noted: 
The desire to live, to be well, to maintain full command over one's faculties, and to see one's loved ones free from disease, disability or premature death are amongst the most strongly rooted of all human desires. 
In other words, there is an inherent emotional content to the subject of health costs. Secondly, the paper involves and touches upon the interests of a profession and a related set of interests which have an impressive record of imposing their will on successive governments almost throughout the entire course of Australian history. Even the Queensland Premier will not be immune from this set of influences. Thirdly, it has been written for a government that has demonstrated no positive interest in health reform, that has no clear sense of the underlying issues involved and whose record has always been that of uncritical support for the rulers of Australia's health empire. Given these factors, the Commission is to be congratulated for producing a paper in which the principal obstructions to reducing health costs in Australia are clearly identified. 
The rather more tentative character of the recommendations can be excused because it is after all governments which have the responsibility in the light of the facts to grasp the nettle and take effective action. The key thesis of this dicussion paper is set out in chapter 38 at page 14. It states: 
The lesson of Australian history is that major changes in the organisation and financing of health services are not likely to succeed in the face of concerted opposition from the doctors. They are at the heart of the system . . . 
They largely determine the demands on those resources. They must share major responsibility for professional standards, for justifying resource consumption, for rationalising facilities and services, for limiting fee rises and for ensuring observance of fee schedules. 
However, Robert Maxwell, an international policy analyst who is quoted in the paper, has stated: 
The insulation of the medical profession from concern about resource use seems to be the most important single problem on Australia 's health care scene. 
This, as I have suggested, is the central theme of the papers and the authors return to it again and again. It is a theme which has been taken up more and more by ordinary people around this nation who are coming to see that the people to whom in the past they were prepared to give the highest status and rewards are the same people who, with all too few exceptions, have fought, through their professional associations and with the support of other sections of the health industry, notably the insurance funds, to work against all proposals for change and reform and especially against any change which would result in community control over health costs. There is evidence in the paper which will sustain the proposition that this profession, which has made the strongest claim for its ethical standards, is prepared to use that status that was willingly conferred on it by health consumers and by patients as a weapon against the very people to whom it should give priority. The power of the doctors to act as entrepreneurs selling their services and as an agent for the selection of services has been used as a way for doctors in this country to increase their own wealth and power. 
The crux of this discussion paper is that the escalation of health costs cannot be blamed on either the health consumers or, for that matter, the Labor Government. It is the responsibility of the health industry and the people who control it. The paper argues that it is the doctor who occupies the crucial role of the gatekeeper in the health system and that no system of cost control can succeed if it is not aimed at affecting his behaviour. In chapter 79 the discussion paper again emphasises that it is the doctor who is the key decision-maker. After the patient has made the initial contact with the system the doctor allocates health services by recommending revisits, referrals to specialists, ordering of laboratory and x-ray investigations, recommending hospital admissions, operations and length of stay in hospitals and prescribing of medication. 
Only a relatively small proportion of the total cost, perhaps as much as 30 per cent, can be laid at the door of the patient. Beyond the point of his visiting the general practitioner he is in the hands of the system, and the responsibility for costs surely shifts almost exclusively into the hands of the medical profession. The cost structure associated with the living and decisions of even a single doctor in the report is underlined by figures which are cited from a Canadian report which suggest that each new Canadian doctor entering the system costs the community $150,000 a year-$70,000 a year for salary and $80,000 in secondary costs associated with the process which I have just described. In a recent series of articles published in the Melbourne  Age  Dr Pickering,  the  President  of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association, was quoted as suggesting that in Australia each new doctor generated $ 100,000 per year in associated costs on top of an estimated $70,000 salary that he is likely to receive. Specialists probably generate in addition to their $100,000-plus salaries immense costs in terms of associated specialised services. 
We are dealing with a wealthy and very powerful profession, and it needs to be emphasised that it is not merely a profession. It is a group of people who have become central to what can be thought of as a health empire in which this profession is playing a crucial role. Let us look, for example, at public hospitals which are costing the Australian taxpayer thousands of millions of dollars each year. Whose interests are these now gigantean institutions serving? I think it can be argued that with the ever-increasing specialisation of the profession and of hospitals, the larger teaching hospitals are moving more and more to serve the interests of an esoteric profession. Such hospitals are less and less subject to the establishment of overall health planning priorities and are using their considerable resources in ways which are not always in conformity with any proper democratic processes. They are highly elitist institutions which need to be placed in the context of proper controls, not in the sense of administrative and accounting efficiency but in terms of responsibility to the health system as a whole and particularly to the public. 
It can be argued that almost all of the weight of our health resources is being directed to those people who are close to the end of the life cycle and that fewer resources are going to serve the vast bulk of the population who are some of the way through their lives. Through this whole process of spending public money, whether in the community or in the hospital situation, there appears to have developed little in the way of proper checks on the power of doctors to determine costs and prices. Doctors who argued that cost controls built into Medibank Mark I were regulatory and coercive and who at that time supported self-regulation through peer codes have since apparently changed their way of thinking. 
The paper suggests that after the passing of a year and a half since the review of professional standards was proposed, there is little firm evidence of an operational plan for peer review coming into existence. As expenditure is continuing to soar the Commissioner notes that there is growing disillusionment with the system of natural controls. The Commission suggests that the alternative may have to be a system of formal controls instituted by law and regulation. 
Just as the doctors have failed to develop systems of peer review, so their allies in the funds have resisted their obligation to provide data to the Health Commission which would have been readily available if Medibank Mark I had not been (destroyed. Specifically, the paper states: 
The private insurance industry has not taken overt initiatives to develop claims review procedures that are necessary for studies of health service utilisation and the implementation of utilisation review. 
Further, the report suggests that it is essential that statistics on claims for benefits be available for analysis. The Commission suggests that the supply of information from private health funds is incomplete and that much of the information that has been supplied has not been analysed. The Commission concluded: 
Without such data, reviews of the use of specific services, or of the medical services generally, are severely inhibited. 
That means that one cannot work out what it costs to deal with a particular class of patient and one cannot evaluate the medicine that is being practised in the community. The Government's dismantling of Medibank destroyed the possibilities of establishing a reliable national basis for the collection of statistical information relevant to the evaluation of health systems. Apparently such a basis does not exist within the State hospital systems.  Dr Brand,  the executive director of the Preston and Northcote Community Hospital, which is a large public hospital in my electorate, recently pointed out that there are great variations in the cost structures of the principal hospitals in Melbourne but there is no basis on which to make effective comparisons. In his view, the variations that exist are essentially administrative. However, currently little is being done to set standards, measure costs and grant funds accordingly. He said: 
For example, how many nurses are needed to look after 30 acute medical patients or 200 casualty attendances a day? How many resident medical hours are needed for a specified number of patients? What should be the standard food cost per patient and the standard of linen usage? We do not  know. All we know is that there are enormous differences between hospitals and these differences mean millions of dollars per year. Standard costing is well known in industry, why not in hospitals? 
The problem that we face in relation to health costs in this country is that we have allowed a monster to be created that may not be subject to control by democratic processes. There is no evidence that a consensus can be achieved because what has come into existence is an immensely powerful coalition of interlocking institutions and processes that tend to act in concert. They control vast resources and can, if necessary, defeat political attempts to achieve only limited direction and control. 
It is one thing to talk, as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  did earlier in this debate, of a tendency towards corruption in the profession, but this is not the heart of the problem. Rather, a structure has been created the collective interests of which are rapidly moving beyond rational direction. The examples he mentioned of overt corruption are but the tip of the iceberg. The basic problem is that the whole structure- the interlocking connections between the doctors, the funds, the investment private hospitals and the control over the admission policies of large hospitals by the medical technocratsis an empire that is unable to insulate itself from democratic control and responsibility. This is the reality which lies behind this discussion paper and these political forces stand between us and substantial control over health costs. 
If there is an area of the report which justifies some criticism it is the neglect of the significance of the broader area of prevention and particularly societal determinants of the community's health. There are references in the discussion paper to some of the psycho-social determinants of people's health and the inappropriate way in which some of the psychological problems that people confront are often approached in a way which reflects the physical or organic prejudices of the medical profession. However, the more serious issue is the way in which the report, at least in its general discussion, tends to by-pass the analysis of the relationship between people's health and the pressures which are exerted on them by the way in which our society currently organises itself and its economic activities. A significant proportion of the costs which are generated in the form of health services flow, for example, from the way in which the transport system is organised, with high levels of individual accidents and side effects, such as heavy pollution levels, which have enormous impact on the overall standards of community health. Another example is the whole area of industrial health and the impact of pollutants and noise levels within particular industries. A number of other occupations are particularly stressful. 
In my view, the determinants of people's health are not simply the result of individual decisions and life styles. People are also subject to pressures which flow from the type of social and industrial organisation which is characteristic of this and other Western capitalist societies. A change in the basic way in which society is organised is likely to be fundamental to a shift in the total proportion of costs necessary to be spent on health care. The discussion paper goes on to suggest, however, that the prevention of illness and disability, accompanied by effective health education, has the greatest long term potential for containing the general inflation of health expenditures. It is perhaps unfortunate that the report has so little feeling for the social, environmental and industrial determinants of people's health. It is one thing to criticise the obsession of the current profession with sophisticated technologies; it is possibly even more important to spell out an alternative framework which might be adopted by the health profession in its search for improved standards of community health. 
Finally, the principal recommendation of the report is that people should pay a larger share of health costs directly out of their pockets. That does not follow from the report. That is not consistent with the argument of the report. If one is to be consistent with the argument as a whole then one has to look at a whole variety of means which result in controls over the health system as a whole but particularly over the medical profession. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-A great deal has been said in this House, particularly by honourable members on this side of the House, about the problem of unemployment. I draw the attention of the House to unemployment as it affects my electorate and as it affects the northeastern corridor of Melbourne where currently more than 10,000 people are unemployed. In particular, I refer to the way in which the Government is exploiting not only the unemployed people of this country but also those people who are endeavouring to work with the people who are unemployed. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  referred earlier this evening to the way in which this Government has been quite indecisive in relation to its commitment to the Commonwealth Youth Employment scheme. I think every honourable member on this side of the House would have very strong reservations about the efficacy of that scheme. Its only purported purpose is to instil the work ethic into people who are currently unemployed. The young people I have met through that scheme do not appear to lack that ethic. What they lack is access to jobs, but that scheme will not meet that problem. 
Nevertheless, operating within my electorate are at least four centres which are funded through that scheme and which have attracted a number of young people, some of whom have considerable qualifications and experience in working with young people. I believe they are doing a very good job, but they are operating in a situation in which they do not know beyond the next couple of months whether their operations will be funded. So they live in a situation of constant uncertainty. It seems to me that if the 
Government establishes a scheme such as the Commonwealth Youth Employment scheme it ought to make up its mind and it ought to give at least those people who are working within such schemes a degree of certainty. The present level and period of funding seem to me to be quite inadequate. It seems to me that the Government ought to commit itself, if it intends to commit itself to the scheme at all, for a period of at least 12 months. It ought to give the people who are working in the scheme some frame within which to plan and some sense of security. 
Honourable members might say that it is bad enough that the 20 or 30 people working within such schemes in my electorate are living in uncertainty. But let us turn to the Public Service and in particular the Northcote branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service. One is also confronted with an example of the scandalous way in which this Government treats not only the unemployed but also the people whose responsibility it is to work with the unemployed. In 1975 that office was opened in a small shop front in High Street, Northcote. At that time it had a staff of about seven members. That same branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service located in that same small shop front has a staff of 20 members in 1978. Those 20 staff members are crowded together in an office which has no partitions between the people who work there. Anybody who goes there to be interviewed and to be counselled has to be dealt with in an atmosphere which amounts to a public meeting. That is the way in which this Government is exploiting the unemployed and those who work with the unemployed. It has not even offered to create a proper facility for a branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service which deals with 200 people a day. That branch has no conference room. It has one toilet which has to be shared by the 20 members of the staff. The situation in the office is scandalous. It reflects on the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and on the Government. It creates an impossible situation for those people who are going through one of the greatest periods of hardship that they will ever experience in their lives. This Government is a heartless government, an unfeeling government. It kicks the unemployed of this country in the guts and at the same time it is prepared to exploit people who have a certain degree of idealism and hope and who are attempting to deal with the problem. It is a problem being created and exacerbated by the most insensitive government we have had in our history. I draw the attention of the House to the situation, and I also inform the House that delegates from region 14 will be at Parliament House tomorrow when people will gain some understanding of the situation if they take the opportunity to meet those delegates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
What are the details of the time lost as a result of industrial accidents in Australian industry during each of the years 1975 to 1977. 
What programs has the Government developed for reducing the number of industrial accidents and the incidence of occupational health problems in Australian industry. 
-There were one or two things that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  had to say that demand a reply. He and other honourable members know that expenditure on health in Australia runs at a level comparable with such expenditure in other countries within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I think the Minister suggested that towards the end of his speech. Presumably those countries have seen a similar pattern of cost escalation from the 1960s into the 1970s. The Minister also knows, and on other occasions would be quite happy to admit, that the 36.7 per cent explosion in wage costs in 1975-76 about which he spoke was clearly related to a policy decision- certainly of the Labor Government but it was long overdue- to give equal pay to women. We all are aware that a very high percentage of people who work in hospitals are women. The effects of that decision certainly flowed into hospital costs, but it was a decision which was long overdue. The Liberal Party, if it had been concerned about women, would have taken that step many years ago. It took the Australian Labor Party to identify that need for the thousands of women in hospitals across Australia and move to meet that need. 
The Minister also referred to the escalation in doctors' fees. I make it clear that that escalation in doctors' fees had nothing to do with the policies of the Labor Government. Indeed, the Labor Government did take steps- steps which this present Government has done much to dismantlefor the first time in what one might call Australia's modern history, to establish a basis on which doctors' fees could be restrained. The doctors could see that coming so they moved to make some gains in advance of the period that was coming. They certainly did receive exorbitant rises and their salaries moved to a level which in many respects is fundamental to the current health crisis in Australia. 
I think it is worth going back to that paper on health care that we were debating just two weeks ago. The very important and basic point that that paper made is that if we seriously want to look- I do not think the Minister for Health really wants to look- for the primary cause of the uncontrolled escalation of health costs in Australia we should not look to the sick, the ill and the ordinary men and women of this country but to the medical profession itself. On this point the paper is crystal clear. That point is made again and again throughout that document. Members of the medical profession are at the heart of the system. They largely determine demand on health resources in terms of the lack of constraints that operate upon them. The doctors inhibit the operation of conventional market forces by their excessive devotion to the notion of professionalism. They insulate themselves from the normal supply and demand factors which operate in relation to the provision of other services. 
It seems clear to me that whatever else this report on health care costs said, it was clearly and strongly that the basic causes of escalation of health costs were not related to the attitudes of ordinary people. Ordinary people do not treat the doctor's surgery or the hospital as pleasant or attractive places to go to; they go there because they understand that something is wrong with them and then they are in the doctors' hands. Perhaps only 20 per cent of total health costs are related to visits to general practitioners. If the Government is going to introduce- as we believe it may well be going to introduce- a front-end deductible scheme, people in the community would have to pay a much larger sum- perhaps $50, $100 or $150-before they move into the area in which they are insured. They would face a much wider gap. 
However it is dressed up by the Governmentknowing the Government's past record it will dress it up- the introduction of that scheme would discriminate against the people who are sick, the lower income people who, perhaps for the first time in the modern period, currently are able to go to a doctor and to get reasonable service. We ought not to say too much about rising health costs as though sometimes costs are not justified. I think of the services that are provided in my electorate by community health centres. They are the most important innovations that have occurred in communities like Preston and West Heidelberg in perhaps 50 years. I think they are worth every cent that is spent on them. Sometimes when we talk about escalation of health costs we forget that there were things wrong with health care in Australia, things which the Labor Government moved to do something about. 
I am happy to speak about the deficit. The deficit is moving along pretty well under this Government, is it not? Look at what the Government has cut back. Look at the deficit now. It is rising while the Government is cutting back on basic services that the communities of Australia, such as the people in my electorate, basically need. The honourable member can talk about deficits as much as he likes. This Government looks for the cheapest way out. It has got itself into a very difficult position. It has created the greatest muddle in medical administration in the history of this country. The Minister can talk about new agreements with the States. We know the realities of the situation. When Medibank was dismantled about 55 per cent of people were allowed to move out of that basic form of insurance. What did that mean? It meant that once again we had the burgeoning of all those private funds, all of them involving huge administrative costs. What was worse, after all those people had left the system even Medibank itself cost more to administer than it had cost before. This Government is involved in an awful muddle in the area of health. It does not know what to do. 
The discussion paper contains some suggestions which I hope the Government will take seriously. The Minister for Health intimated that at least some of the suggestions that were made in it might be taken seriously. I think the Government ought to take seriously the whole question, not only of peer review, of doctors creating a situation where they keep an eye on one another and in a sense on the costs that are being generated, but also the need for a rigorous system of cost control in our hospitals. It is not just a question of the scanners that are being bought at $750,000 a piece; built into the whole of a modern hospital system is a technology and an approach to costs which bear no relation to the benefits involved. Why is it that in the health field we do not have the degree of cost benefit analysis that is built into other areas of government expenditure? 
Basically at the root of our problem in Australia in relation to health costs is the fact that health care operates as a business in which people are involved in order to make money, to build wealth and power. That is the fundamental problem with which this Government will not come to terms. It will not recognise the fact that if we are seriously to do something about health costs in Australia we have to do something about taking out the profits, about making it possible for health services to be delivered without people getting a rip-off, without people earning $70,000, $ 100,000 or $ 125,000 a year. I think the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  pointed out in a previous debate that it is not only the payment that goes to the individual doctor that is of concern but the whole generation of additional costs which are built into a system where the doctor is the front room entrepreneur for a health system which is designed to increase costs along with capacity. We have too many hospital beds in Australia, although not so much in the public health system. In 1976-77 the largest increase occurred in the private hospital system. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the successful introduction of a transit lane on the Spit Bridge in Sydney. 
Have funds been provided for the construction of transit lanes in any other major urban road projects. 
Is the Government currently investigating the feasibility of extending transit lanes to assist the movement of road based public transport and cars with more than 2 occupants. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that it is the Australian Government's view that a settlement of the Middle East conflict between Israel and neighbouring States should be on the basis of United Nations resolutions 242 and 338? Is it also a fact that it is the Australian Government's view that the Palestinian people have a homeland alongside Israel, presumably on the West Bank of Jordan in territory occupied by Israel in 1967? Further, is it the Government's view, in line with section 1, sub-section (ii) of resolution 242 which calls for 'acknowledgment of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every State in the area', that any new Palestinian State created as part of a peace settlement should be an independent entity rather than a province within either Israel or Jordan? Do these views indicate that the Australian Government has followed the American Government in adopting what has been called a more even-handed Middle East policy? Does this policy indicate a shift towards support for the Arab position and pressure on Israel to make a concession for peace comparable to the one made by  President  Sadat by going to Israel last November? 
-There was much in the speech of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  with which I could only thoroughly agree. It is unfortunate that the sentiments that he expressed and the view that he took of transport do not appear to be  reflected  either in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  or in the Bill before us. Let us reflect back for a moment to 1974 when the Present Minister was the shadow Minister for Transport. At that time he made what could only be regarded as a thoroughly patronising speech. He repudiated completely the suggestion that the Minister at the time is in any way responsible for what would appear to me and indeed to most Australians to be one of the most important developments in relation to cities- the introduction of this particular legislation. He also suggested that in his speech the Minister had not given due account to the work that was done by the Bureau of Transport Economics and that his speech was technically weak. 
It seems to me that we have to remember the work of previous Ministers and we have to recognise that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  when Minister for Transport, brought a vision to the whole subject of urban transport. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has suggested, it is good that at least in some respects that vision is being carried through into this Parliament, through this extension of the legislation which was first introduced in 1974. It is interesting to reflect also on another speech that was made in that debate when the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  suggested of the legislation introduced at that time that it demonstrated 'a complete absence of an overall plan or a fundamental approach to the problem with which it is purporting to tackle'. Indeed, it was just that point that the honourable member for McMillan was making. He was suggesting that we ought to place the whole area of transport within a much broader context, and that it is time to look at transport, not in isolation but as a national planning issue. 
Situations do change, and they change quite dramatically. The importance of this legislation and the importance of public transport is very much greater now, great as it may have been at the time the Australian Labor Party Government introduced the legislation. There is on the part of conservative governments always a tendency to believe that if they creep along incrementally somehow they will manage to keep up with history and be able to match actions with events. I think there is a real sense in which, in the transport area, that will not be the case. There is a sense in which history is rushing upon us, and if we do not make urgent decisions and shift priorities we will be in very serious trouble. 
I base this argument very much on the whole question of energy. The annual report of the Department of Transport noted that 'the transport sector accounts for about 37 per cent of final energy consumption and about 60 per cent of consumption of petroleum products' and that 'the vast bulk of this transport energy is being consumed by the private motor vehicle'. The Minister, in a speech delivered in Houston, said that transport decisions cannot be divorced from energy considerations', but in the second reading speech and in the approach of the Minister to this legislation we have not a single reference to the problem of energy. 
We might have expected that the Minister would provide some justification for the increase- perhaps a minor increase, but nevertheless an increase- in spending on urban public transport. In his speech he has offered only justification for the fact that road congestion, car parking and pollution problems reinforce the need for a transport system which provides an alternative means of urban mobility. As an after thought I add that we should not forget those members of society- the old, the young, the poor and the handicapped- who make the supreme sacrifice and either travel on public transport or stay at home. 
I think the fundamental issue that has to be related to transport is the whole situation of energy. Australia is not an energy rich country. Whilst we control something like 6 per cent of the world's supplies of coal and whilst we have in terms of black coal 240 times the world's annual production level and in terms of brown coal 90 times the world's annual production level, the reality is that we have only 0.25 per cent of the world's petroleum reserves. In 1976 we had only nine times the world's annual production rate. Australian cars are guggling down for all manner of purposes, some appropriate and some inappropriate, 947 litres per car per year- perhaps only half the American rate, but we do not have its power to lever events in the Middle East. 
I believe the most compelling arguments for increased spending on public transport flow from this coming shortage of oil and its critical importance to the movement of people and goods in Australia. The fundamental argument is simply that in terms of energy efficiency, public transport makes the most effective use of limited resources. I have here a table which sets out kilometres per equivalent gallon of petrol for various types of transport ranging from taxi to man on the bicycle. As one looks at the range one can see just how energy efficient public transport is. For example, the urban bus travels 48.6 kilometres per equivalent gallon of petrol compared with 37.5 kilometres per gallon by the private car.  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804136_73_6.jpg"></graphic>

The Government's planned expenditure of $300m over the next five years and its plan to match that expenditure with State expenditure of $150m represents a significant improvement in public spending in the area of transport. Nevertheless, we need to recognise that the priorities have not been changed. These figures represent a ration of an order of at least $10 spent on urban roads for every one dollar spent on urban public transport. In the 1973-74 Budget it was proposed to spend $3 1 6m on roads compared with $ 1 1 m on rail and $3 1 m on urban public transport. In 1977-78, this Government will spend $538m on total road transport, $84m on rail transport and $51m on urban public transport- that is, the position of rail and public transport has improved in percentage terms from a very low base, but the bias of expenditure is clearly against urban rail transport and public transport for those areas of Australia in which it has the best chance of achieving some success. 
I wish to raise a number of general problems with which the Government will have to grapple. Some of them have been referred to earlier in the debate. I think that we have to recognise- I think that the honourable member for McMillan recognised this-that we have built cities that are maximumly difficult to service via public transport. We do not have the higher population densities in inner city areas which are typical of other cities of the world and which provide one of the bases for cost-efficient public transport. There has never been in any city in Australia, a proper relationship between land use planning and transport planning. 
Also, we have a division of power between Federal and State governments which makes it extremely difficult to take a national approach to any problem. I am aware that it is currently unfashionable to talk about national approaches to domestic problems, but flexibility aside, is the Minister able to assure this House that the States are really attacking their transport problems in a way which is designed to meet the best interests of a national energy policy? As I read the Minister's statement, he is against the grand plans of the 1960s. But what has replaced that approach? It certainly cannot be said that in my own State of Victoria there have been developed progressive policies which are designed to get people out of cars and into public transport. Even if the Minister is thinking along the right lines, what guarantee do we have that he can get Cabinet to agree with him? In Victoria, we have  Mr Rafferty  suggesting that he wants to see more money spent on public transport. On the other hand, we have every other Minister in each other State government presumably looking after his own ministerial bag. 
Thirdly, what will we do about the deficits that the States face and particularly the cumulative debt? It is all very well criticising as  Utopian  the Whitlam plan to take over State railways. There are problems in that but what is the point of the Commonwealth spending piddling amounts of money over a five-year period while the whole system goes out the window at the time it is most needed? I am not sure of the precise figures in respect of State railway debts. But clearly those debts run into hundreds of millions of dollars. One estimate I have seen suggests debts totalling more than $500m. It is not simply the debt which is involved; it is also the interest payments which on those debts represent very significant amounts of money. The grants that are to be made under this program will be of little or no assistance in meeting the problem of massive deficits within the States. 
The Minister's second reading speech makes no refernece to the detailed analysis carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics of the capital requirements of urban public transport for the period 1977-78 to 1979-80. The Bureau makes no final determination of what the figure should be but does note in its report that while substantial increases in the rate of expenditure on public transport can be justified, the pressure on State financial resources of very rapid expansion in urban public transport must be recognised. However, the Bureau gives a figure which 
I think it may be worth citing. It suggests that the economically warranted State capital city public authority expenditure that can be justified amounts to about $630m in 1974-75 prices for the three year period. Further, additional capital expenditure of about $2 15m is required over the period for public transport projects already under way in these cities. This is what is suggested by the Bureau of Transport Economics, the body that the Minister chastised the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for failing to laud in his 1974 speech on a similar Bill. 
I want to say this as clearly and as strongly as I possibly can: It seems to me to make absolute nonsense of employing expensive professional resources in the form of the expertise in bodies such as the Bureau of Transport Economics or other bodies of that type if one makes no reference to their recommendations in legislation or debate in the Parliament and if one simply ignores them and suggests that the figure that is chosen is a figure that has been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States. I ask the Minister: What is the relationship between the work that has been done by the Bureau of Transport Economics, a highly professional body, and the decisions actually taken in terms of arriving at the amount of money which it is proposed to spend on the program as a whole and the program in the various States? The report notes the forward lead times and the detailed planning which is required in moving towards increased levels of expenditure on urban public transport. That needs to be set against the reality that in the mid-1980s we will be facing a major energy problem in this country. Transport could make a major contribution towards resolving that problem, at least partially. 
It is not simply a question of attempting to come to terms with this problem in five years time. We need to come to terms with it now. I believe that there is a very strong case for the Government to develop as quickly as possible some overall approach to transport that places considerable emphasis on the whole question of energy. If criticism could be made of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, it would be that the Bureau failed to take account of and state the importance of the issue that I have been raising. We have built and developed within Australia a transport system based on the private motor vehicle which has shaped our cities. That is a reality; that is a fact. To change thai pattern and to change the shape of the cities will require massive expenditures. 
I do not think that we on the Opposition side of the House ought to make any apologies for the large expenditures which were envisaged within the area of urban affairs. The problems which have been allowed to develop, to grow and to accumulate over a long period have now become massive. They may be insoluble. I believe that the reshaping of transport systems is fundamental to the health of Australian cities and of the people who will live in those cities in the future. I believe that the Bill is continuing a shift in the right direction which began during the life of the Australian Labor Party Government. I hope that during the period of the operation of the Bill there will be a reconsideration of urban public transport within the context of a national transport plan. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) What are the present criteria by which Australia selects refugees. 
How do these criteria correlate with those of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
What criteria are used to determine whether potential migrants, who are not dependent members of migrant families already resident in Australia or who are not refugees, are eligible to come to live and work in Australia. 
What occupational skills are required at present. 
5 ) How many job vacancies exist in these skills. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think that - 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Chairman 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Proposed new Part IV A. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that in February last year the Australian Postal Commission purchased land at Bundall on Queensland 's Gold Coast from Ron McMaster Pty Ltd for $280,000? Is it also a fact that less than four weeks previous to that Ron McMaster Pty Ltd had bought the land from Watkins Ltd for $240,000? What discussions, if any, did the Postal Commission have with the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications about the matter before it was finalised? 
-This is the fifth attempt I have made today to rise to speak in the debate. I have been silenced by the Government Whip each time despite the historic nature of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill which was alluded to by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  when he introduced it. I address my remarks to clause 14 and to the amendment that has been proposed by the Opposition. I say by way of summary that some of the issues that have been raised are not new issues. The issues that are raised in this aspect of the legislation - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I rise to speak to the matter referred to by the previous  speaker  concerning the land at Bundall on the Gold Coast. Questions on this matter were raised yesterday with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and a further question was put to him today. The Minister said yesterday that he would give an answer as soon as possible, and in response to the further question today the Minister said: 'I will provide the answers to the honourable member's question as soon as possible. The allegations implied in his question and subsequently in some Press reports are serious.' Despite those assurances, I read in this morning's  Courier Mail  that apparently the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  has been investigating the matter and at least is in a position to have his views reported in the Press. 
The facts upon which the questions have been raised by the Opposition are plain and can be documented. Simply, they are these: A parcel of land, just over two acres in size and located in the suburb of Bundall on the Gold Coast, was sold on 10 January 1977 by Watkins Ltd, a firm of Queensland builders, to Ron McMaster Pty Ltd for $240,000. Subsequently, three weeks later on 4 February 1977, the same parcel of land was sold by Ron McMaster Pty Ltd to the Australian Postal Commission- to the Australian Government, one might say- for $280,000, enabling Ron McMaster Pty Ltd to make a windfall profit of $40,000 in less than a month. Those are the facts and they can be documented. I have with me photostat copies of the notifications of change of ownership from the Valuer-General's Department, and I ask leave to table those documents. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister noted a report in last Saturday's Melbourne  Age  of comments made by the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications about a land purchase by the Postal Commission at Bundall in Queensland in February 1977? Can the Minister advise the House of the date on which  Mr Ron  McMaster approached the then Minister about land he wanted to sell to the Commission? What subsequent communication did the Minister have with the Australian Postal Commission in relation to  Mr McMaster  's approach to him? 
-In that exposition of the Government's case the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  represented clearly the extent to which the Liberal Party of Australia has moved to the right. When people such as Churchill and Asprey of the Asprey Committee are described, at least as is implied in the honourable member's speech, as being Marxist we can see just how far the Liberal Party is moving to the right. 
The purpose of this legislation, as set out in the second reading speech, is to 'implement the Government's policy which is the abolition of estate and gift duty'. Presumably this intention arises from the fact that estate and gift duty have become unpopular taxes among some groupsparticularly property interests, rural and farming organisations- and because of the reluctance of the Government to carry out reforms to resolve some of the problems raised by critics. However, the Government's decision appears to have been made basically for political reasons. It appears to have decided to abolish the taxes primarily because they are taxes that worry some of the friends of the Government; that is, those on moderate and high incomes who are, after all, the only people who are principally affected by the tax or certainly would be if it were properly reformed. Indeed, it is extraordinary that honourable members on the other side of the chamber should have gone through such an agonising process over the outlawing of the Curran scheme and simply avoided the problem of tax avoidance inherent in the current estate and gift duty tax by throwing the lot out the window. The reason for that no doubt is the fact that estate and gift duty represent, actually and perhaps even potentially, a small percentage of revenue collected at the Federal level- less than 1 per cent of Commonwealth taxes. In the case of the tax avoidance schemes debated earlier this week, the scale was obviously so great and the Government's depression of the economy is now so extensive it simply could not afford to look after its friends in the taxation dodge business. Loyalty to property interests which is the basis of morality on the Government side had to be put to one side because the reputation of this Government as a successful economic manager in that case was at stake. 
The Government is certainly not acting in response to the recommendations of any of the committees of inquiry that have been investigating taxation in recent years. The Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in its 1973 report on death duties supported a rationalisation of the tax between State and Commonwealth governments with the Commonwealth offering in this case to vacate the field in return for the States agreeing to co-operate in the enactment of uniform legislation. The Asprey Committee, appointed by the McMahon Government and reporting in early 1975 also argued, as has been suggested, for the retention of estate and gift duties believing that 'while revenue will not be great from such taxes compared to other taxes they have an essential part to play in the tax structure as a whole'. According to the Asprey Committee a death tax serves two purposes: It serves to support the progressivity of" the tax structure by the indirect means of a progressive levy on wealth once a generation. It also directly limits the growth of large inherited fortunes, a trend that most people- but apparently not people on the other side of the chamberwould agree to have undesirable social consequences. The Asprey Committee might think this but this Government, which is led by a man who never tires of telling people how he is interested in their well-being, anxious to promote the wellbeing of all Australians, was anxious to pick up a few votes and so he promised to knock out this tax which the Asprey Committee, a conservative committee, believed contributed to the equity of the tax system. Unfortunately we have in power a government that is not interested in equity. This is unfortunate because equity and fairness are values which can easily be submerged when politicians talk, as politicians within the Government parties talk, the language of confrontation and fear. 
Unfortunately, this Government has managed, hopefully temporarily, to banish notions of fairness and equity from this country's political lexicon. We have become, as even the conservative Treasury recognises in its Paper No. 1 1 on Estate and Gift Duties, the odd nation out. The paper points out that the United States and all Western European countries other than Ireland have not only estate duties and income tax but also capital gains or net worth taxes, and in some cases both. The Treasury Paper concludes, and this point cannot, in the context of this debate, be repeated often enough: 
If Australia had no death duties and did not impose any other capital gains tax, Australia would be in an exceptional position in this aspect of capacity to pay. It would be the only advanced Western country levying no other direct tax apart from income tax. 
The Treasury Paper also points out that estate and gift duties are not peripheral, as some people would suggest, but basic to the tax system. They serve socio-economic objectives which include the desire to reduce inequalities in the distribution of wealth, progressive growth in such equalities and the possibility of a resulting distribution of income that provides for a reasonable approximation to equality, or equality of opportunity for individuals. These are objectives which are certainly held to be basic by the Labor Party and by this Opposition. One would have hoped they were values shared by every member of this House, but apparently that is not the case. The Government has a political debt to pay and that would appear to be its sole justification for the legislation which is currently before the House. We recognise that the tax has been subject to avoidance measures. It is difficult to determine the appropriate base on which to levy the tax. Particular people may need to be protected through exemptions and the legislation, as it has existed, has proved difficult and more costly to administer than other forms of taxation, for example, income tax. 
All of these reasons have been examined by two committees of inquiry. That has not led either committee to conclude that there is any justification for the abolition of duties. It can be concluded only that the Government is more interested in having an efficient tax system than in having an equitable taxation system; that it is more interested in taking a popular course of action than in resisting pressures from the limited interests which stand to lose from the continued existence of this tax, particularly if it is reformed. 
When one reflects on the performance that was put on before the House by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and Government supporters concerning income tax legislation the other day- the breast beating, the agonising over decisions to deal with people who, in one way or another, are endeavouring to cheat or beat the system, people who, via meaningless companies, are endeavouring to draw to themselves potentially vast amounts of wealth without any effort or even necessarily any product- one stands amazed at the coolness of the Government with respect to this legislation. The gains at the upper end of the property scale will be great and an opportunity will be lost to collect, over the next few years, what will amount to hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue, while the Government presses down on those people in the community who have no asset backing, no security and who for that reason live in fear of sickness and potential unemployment or any kind of major crisis. 
There are problems in the administration of these duties, but there are solutions available to them. The Asprey Committee, for example, suggested means of widening the tax base to include:   . . the right, in the form of an option, to acquire property or the right for a repayment of a loan or rights attendant on shares which the deceased had at the time of his death. 
The Committee recommended measures further to integrate gift and death dudes to take away the incentive offered under the present laws to make gifts during one's lifetime. The Committee recommended restructuring the rates so that the tax bite would increase with the scale of property interests held, and recommended exemptions to exclude the weight of the duty falling on the spouse and family firms. However, it must be emphasised that this is not a government interested in reform but rather a government which is primarily dedicated to reinforcing the divisions which exist between men of property and the rest of the community. 
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that the abolition of this duty will affect only a tiny proportion of the Australian population. The number of people affected is small. According to my information only 12 per cent of all deaths were assessed for duty in 1976-77. Usually the people concerned were in the top 5 to 10 per cent of income earners only. The impression one has from examining the measure is that the Government is not interested in having an equitable taxation system; indeed that it is reinforcing the measures which we saw spelled out in the last Budget and in the February tax cuts. It was argued by the then Treasurer, a man with no small interest in capital gains, a man of property indeed, aspiring towards some wealth, that the restructured income tax scales would benefit all Australians. However, he did not spell it out quite the same way as other people saw it. 
The Applied Economic and Social Research Institute at Melbourne University, for example, argued that there was a heavy bias in those reforms towards the upper end of the income spectrum. It estimated that 71.6 per cent of the taxpayers on incomes below $11,500 in the first quarter of 1978- that is, those people on or below average weekly earnings- accounted for some 5 1 per cent of net income, but received from these measures only 29 per cent of the tax relief; whereas the estimated 10 per cent of taxpayers on net incomes above $15,800 accounted for 24 per cent of net income and received 43 per cent of the total tax relief offered. 
A number of Government supporters are from time to time quite capable of showing compassion, particularly as we saw the other day, for crooks. However, few tears are being shed by them for ordinary Australians on average incomes and below, who are being bled by this Government as it pushes policies designed to increase inequity and to expand inequalities in Australian society. The central argument that I have put before the House on this matter is related to notions of fairness and equity. However, in the Government's terms there would appear to be good reason for examining the possibilities involved in, at the very least, taxes on estates and related taxes on gifts, as well as other forms of wealth tax. If the Government is serious- and the honourable member for Tangney sounded serious enough- about wanting to foster a society in which the primary emphasis is on incentives and encouraging people to work hard and to make their own way in the world, it is hard to see how this legislation fosters those objectives. There is no sense in which it might be argued that death taxes destroys incentives; indeed, quite the reverse. Their abolition, however, creates a situation where it is possible for wealth to be perpetuated over generations, irrespective of the commitments and the interests of succeeding generations. There is associated with the notion of inherited wealth a system of rewards which contradicts the basic idea of liberal philosophy; that is, that people ought to be rewarded within their own generation in terms of their contribution to society. 
We have here a measure which can only be designed to distribute rewards or income in a way which bears no relation to people 's achievement or to their potential contribution to society. Even on the Government's terms, this seems to be not merely a conservative but a reactionary move. It contradicts a basic tenet of Liberal philosophy. Australian society is not helped by the perpetuation of myths, and there is abroad a myth, fostered by successive Liberal governments, that this is a society that is not characterised by wide disparities between people in terms of relative wealth and property. That has always been a myth. It is a myth today and, if this Government continues in office, it will continue to be a myth that is a long way further from reality. There are immense disparities between the standard of living and the access to opportunities of different groups of Australians. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out earlier in this debate that at least one survey showed that the top 1 per cent of Australians control 20 per cent of the nation's wealth. There are vast inequities and inequalities within the community and the measures before the House are designed to increase the distances between people. 
It seems to me that it is a very dangerous thing for a democratic community to move in the direction in which this Government is taking us. It is a dangerous direction. Indeed, it takes our society out of step with many other comparable communities within the group of countries comprising the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. One of the things we hear often repeated, and we heard it repeated by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in this debate, is that we are living in a society which, particularly over the past few years, has become far too heavily taxed. Just what represents too high a level of tax is very difficult to determine. It is clearly related to the quality of services that the community wants to see provided by governments; in other words the standards of community health, education and welfare. It could be argued that those countries within the OECD group that have higher percentages of their gross domestic product absorbed in taxation very often have higher standards of community and welfare services. 
It is argued that somehow an enormous- the honourable member for Tangney might use the word 'elephantine'- change occurred between 1972 and 1975. From my examination on a comparative basis of the figures supplied by the OECD, that, too, is a myth. Certainly it is true that the levels of taxation within Australia increased in that period along with inflation, but the same is true of many other countries within the OECD group. When the Labor Government came to power in Australia in 1972 the total taxes collected represented about 27 per cent of the gross national product, compared with an average of 3 1 per cent for all OECD countries. By 1975 the total taxes collected in Australia had risen by 3 per cent to 30 per cent of the gross national product but this was still below the average for all OECD countries. Other countries within the OECD group still have levels of taxation which are considerably higher than the levels of taxation which exist in Australia. It is arguable to talk about what the appropriate levels of taxation ought to be, but what is not arguable and what is to be challenged in relation to this legislation is the claim that taxation ought to be levied in a thoroughly equitable manner. If the consensus within the Australian community is that people want lower levels of taxation, for God's sake let us achieve it in a way which protects the interests of the lower income earners. 
That is exactly what this legislation does not do and it is exactly what the tax measures introduced last February did not do. What they did was shift the burden of community and welfare services in this community from the people who can damned well afford to pay for them to the backs of the people who cannot, to the people who need and ought to live in a community which is able to provide the full range and quality of services. That is not true of every community in Australia. We are living in a society which is heavily divided. As my Party recognised when in government, there are great differences between electorates and regions in this country. If those differences are to be reduced and if there is to be some equity between town and country, some equity between inner city and outer city and some equity between people in various occupations, taxation will continue to be important and it will be of basic importance that any restructuring or change in the taxation system be designed to protect the interest not of a few but of all in the community. That is what this Government says it is doing but that is exactly what it is not doing. This Government is essentially a government which is captive to a limited group of property interests. Ultimately it will be imprisoned by it and by its values. Over the last few years we have seen in Australia the way in which a small number of people have been able to amass huge fortunes through speculation in property, minerals and energy. We have seen divisions in the community widen and we now have a government which is committed to widening those divisions still further. That is unfortunate, regrettable and a bad thing for this country. The people in Australia who are concerned about those divisions will remember this legislation for a long time. It is a symbol of class government, of property government, and it ought not to be acceptable within a democratic community. 
I want to raise the issue of Australia's immigration policy. It is rumoured that there is currently before Cabinet a submission which would effectively raise the level of net immigration from the current levels of 50,000 a year to 70,000 a year for each year until 1981. It is also understood that this policy would be accompanied by greater emphasis on the 'occupational eligible category ' which would be more flexibly defined to avoid the restrictions currently imposed, which insist that migrants coming to Australia should be able to fit a category of employment listed by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations as occupations matching vacancies somewhere in Australia. 
It would seem most important that further debate should take place in the Parliament, and in Australia, before any decision is taken to change the rate of migration to Australia or the definition of categories of immigrants. It is also to be hoped that the Government will make no decision before the promised White Paper on immigration policy is published and ample time is allowed for public discussion and debate. It is unfortunate that the report of the recent meeting of Federal and State Ministers on 2 1 April was not more expansive; but it would seem that at this meeting there was agreement about continuing support for migration, that programs should extend over longer periods rather than that there should be an annual intake approach; that more emphasis should be placed on the English language as a criterion for entry; that there should be greater assistance to enable skilled workers to travel to Australia, and that restrictions should continue to be placed on people entering under the family reunion category, as well as the monitoring of people- whatever that means- of differing ethnic background, and limitation of the inflow of refugees. 
In my view there is no clear basis on which to announce major changes in Australia's immigration policy. Indeed, there are a number of concerns which should be taken seriously and resolved before a large-scale immigration program is resumed, on the lines of programs adopted in the 1950s and 1960s. There is, first and foremost, the issue of unemployment amongst Australian workers and recently arrived migrants. There is some evidence to suggest that rates of unemployment among recently arrived migrants are considerably higher, perhaps double that of the work force as a whole. Further, unless there is a rapid improvement in annual rates of job creation, unemployment is likely to worsen each year through into the early 1 980s. This problem would be compounded still further if increased rates of immigration were adopted. 
Secondly, Australia in the present situation is becoming necessarily, perhaps increasingly, selective about the occupational categories required. The reality is that it will become increasingly difficult to attract skilled migrants, given the economic situation in Australia and the morality of doing so from countries that are themselves short of skilled workers is questionable. Thirdly, the Australian Government needs to face the problems associated with, on the one hand allowing family reunion policies to operate in a way which allows the consolidation of existing ethnic family structures, and on the other hand allowing a proper response to the humanitarian needs of an increasing number of refugees wishing to come to Australia. These humanitarian considerations have been neglected in the past. It may be more difficult to avoid such questions in the immediate future. 
Fouthly, a recent article in the  Australian  of 2 May 1978 headed 'Migrant shortage could doom North West Shelf suggested that industry groups, that is, mining companies and the Western Australian Government, want to import at least 30,000 more migrants a year until 1980. This suggests that the Government's manpower planning, job relocation and retraining schemes have been written off by the mining companies and the Western Australian Government. It is hard to believe that there are not enough workers in Australia to fill these jobs or to be retrained to work on this development and that we have to emphasise the need to expand the nation's immigration policy. 
Finally, does Australia have an obligation to migrants already in Australia which it should be fulfilling rather than speaking in terms of expanded migration targets? What will happen to the 1,100 workers who will be displaced at the Chrysler factory in South Australia? Many of these people must be recently arrived migrants with limited skills. Clearly considerable resources need to be devoted now to sorting out such a situation. One does not have to be critical of the concept of immigration to be most concerned about current developments in Australia. It would seem that nothing has been learned from past experience and that we are getting into more of a muddle. It is hoped that the Government will break with tradition in this area and allow and encourage a wide-scale debate. The failure to do so could result in a new element of divisiveness entering Australian society. 
I refer to a recent debate in the Parliament on the subject of health care costs. I have been thinking about the suggestion made by  Dr Sax  in the report on health costs that prevention of illness and disability, accompanied by effective health education, has the greatest long-term potential for containing a general inflation of health expenditure. That is, the approach which is likely to be the most productive is that of prevention in the longer term. Whilst the Government has expressed concern about rising health care costs, in terms of its strategy it seems to be moving towards deterring people from using services by raising the direct private sector costs so that people are made more aware of the real costs of medical care. It is by no means clear that the Government is right in following this strategy. It may be that all that will be achieved by the Government will be the movement of more costs from the public sector to the private sector. That is certainly what has been happening. 
In my view the real basis of rising health care costs is related, as I have suggested before in this house, to the underlying philosophy and interests of those groups of people who have an interest in the expansion of health care empires and systems. In a previous speech I identified such groups as doctors, hospital boards, administrators, health insurance funds, private hospital systems and so on. It is clear, as someone was just saying to me in the lobby, that when one looks into the heart of the services in Australia which are supposed to be serving ordinary people and on which thousands of millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money are being spent one finds that the money is being transferred from the ordinary taxpayers into the hands of people who are able to engage in a kind of rip-off. That is what has been happening in relation to health care. A giant rip-off has been occurring and ordinary people and pensioners who have paid tax all their lives are now seeing that tax being paid to enable the exploitation of people through these escalating costs. 
But it is not that argument with which I want to deal today. I want to follow through what I was suggesting about prevention. As a new member of this House, I have been trying to do a bit of research. It is interesting in doing that research how quickly I found myself to be frustrated by the lack of information available. Firstly, it is very hard to get any kind of estimate of what proportion of the total health care expenditure is actually spent on preventive approaches. But if one examines the view of a conservative body- a body that certainly is not likely to be friendly to the Australian Labor Party- that is, that of the Institute of Public Affairs, one finds that its estimate, not the Labor Party's estimate, is that of the $3,000m of public money spent on health care in the last year something like $9m was specifically ear-marked for preventive programs. That is incredible. Only $9m of that $3,000m was for preventive programs. If, in the view of  Dr Sax  and his committee, preventive programs represent the greatest opportunity for long-term savings, that is an extraordinary contrast. 
Something of the scale of the problem, particularly in the area of industrial health, which is the area on which I want to focus attention, can be seen by comparing the costs associated with industrial disputes and those associated with people involved in industrial accidents. During 1976 something like 3.7 million man days were lost through industrial disputes, at a cost of $1 14m in wages. Estimates of the cost of industrial accidents, as compiled from the claims under employers' liability, show that in 1974-75 the cost amounted to $499m and in 1975-76 to more than $577m. In terms of the man days lost in the various states it is apparently difficult to get comparable data. It is extremely difficult to get on a national basis data which actually tells one how many days people have lost from work in relation to industrial accidents. One can get figures for various States. In Victoria in 1974-75, 145,234 weeks were lost. For New South Wales there is no comparable data. For Queensland the figure was more than one million days lost. The figure for South Australia was 96,000 weeks and for Western Australia over 100,000 weeks. The figure for Tasmania was more than 23,000 weeks. Those figures are not comparable. It is difficult to get any kind of national figure. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  has estimated that five million man days were lost during one year due to industrial accidents. One should think in terms of average wages and what that would represent in costs to people apan from the whole question of the loss of productivity. 
The National Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation, although directed to examine compensation and rehabilitation, also looked at the question of accident prevention with the aim of reducing costs incurred through industrial accidents. One of the main grievances in its report was about the lack of adequate data on which to assess the number and nature of industrial accidents and diseases. Page 2 10 of the report states: 
Adequate statistical information is an essential ingredient of any accident prevention program which is both comprehensive and scientific. Existing data in Australia fell short of meeting the most modest tests of adequacy. 
It is extraordinary, some would say reprehensible, that we simply do not have the figures necessary even to assess the scale and dimensions of the problems associated with industrial health. The reason for that is clearly that every State that is collecting figures is something of a law unto itself. It is not possible to persuade the States to do so and apparently so far it has not been possible for the national Government to establish its own system for the collection of statistics so that we know, particularly on the basis of days lost, exactly what is the scale of the problem in Australia. If we do not know the scale and dimensions and, in particular, if we do not know where the problem arises it is nonsense to talk about the Government having preventive programs and it is nonsense for the Government to talk about having a priority in relation to the reduction of health care costs. It can be demonstratedI think I have demonstrated it- that the dimensions of this problem alone are considerable in one year let alone spread over a period of five or six years. 
In other countries it has been possible for national governments to legislate to do something about this problem. In Britain, after a report by Lord Robins in 1972, health and safety work legislation was passed which provided for a comprehensive and integrated system of statistical collection and the creation of a health and safety commission responsible to the Minister for administering the legislation and providing a focus and initiative for health and safety matters. The legislation also placed duties upon everyone concerned at the work place to observe safety regulations. Similarly, in the United States of America the Occupation and Health Safety Act was passed in 1970. Under this Act there is an obligation on the Secretary of Labor to develop and maintain the compilation, collection and analysis of data and statistics. There is provision to provide loans to small business to enable, where there are economic difficulties, compliance with the provisions under the legislation. It is possible for employers to request inspections, and an Institute of Occupational Safety and Health has been established to develop appropriate standards and conduct research. 
In Austrafia we have an absurd situation where there exists simply a multitude of governmental and semi-governmental bodies, with no overall co-ordination. The result is that we do not have statistics on the problem as a whole and have not been able to develop a national approach. If we are going to talk in this House about reduction of health costs we ought to be talking, as at least sections of that report talk, about prevention. If we are going to be equitable and just in relation to the whole question of health, we are going to have to take industrial health much more seriously. If the Federal Government is to exercise a role, the first task seems to be to at least analyse the position and see that the statistics on the problem are available. Even that first step is presently beyond us and I understand that a national conference which was proposed to look at just these kinds of problems has been delayed because the Government will not provide the funds with which to man it. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) How many persons were (a) in in-plant training under the NEAT Scheme, (b) employed under the Special Youth Employment Training Program, (c) employed under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full Time Training and (d) enrolled in the Education Program for Unemployed Youth as at 28 February 1978. 
How many unemployed persons were given relocation assistance to take up jobs away from their home environment during 1977. 
From which Commonwealth Employment Service occupational categories were those persons drawn. 
-I wish to comment particularly on clause 16 of the Schedule which picks up the objectives set out in the preamble to the Schedule. Basically one ought to be able to say positive things about this clause because it opens up the whole question of the way that funds provided by the Commonwealth might be administered. One has to say that in the area of rental housing in the public sector administration has been a key problem. Earlier in the debate I referred to problems associated with the administration of the Victorian Housing Commission. I recognise that the records of some other State housing authorities, particularly that of the South Australian Housing Trust, have to be viewed in contrast with what has taken place in terms of housing authorities in other States. But, if one takes a particular State, one has to recognise that for the past 15 or 20 years the State of Victoria has had an appalling record of administration. It has been possible to draw attention to a whole range of problems in relation to that administration. 
One worries a great deal about what one hears said in positive terms by the Government about flexibility. Flexibility for the Victorian Housing Commission and for the Victorian Government has meant licence to do things which it ought not to have been possible to do in the name of a State housing authority, and to administer affairs in a way that in many respects has been thoroughly regrettable. One could give a whole series of different examples. The fact that there has been a significant decline in the number of units constructed by the State housing authority in the seventies in Victoria was much related to the essay that the authority went into in  terms  of high density housing. When it received funds and was able to administer those funds in relation to the acquisition of land the Gowan report thoroughly documented a whole series of disasters that occurred. In terms of environmental planning, estate planning and the whole paternalistic nature of that authority and its relationship with it tenants, it has a bad record. One does not imagine that the Victorian Government, given more flexibility, is likely to mend its ways- quite the contrary. The more flexibility the Victorian Government has had in the housing area the greater capacity it has had to go on to what could be described only as housing disasters. 
One of the difficulties of the Commonwealth Government in its approach to housing, which has been reflected in this debate, is that the Government, as opposed to a department, does not have any particular interest in housing policy. Honourable members have seen that reflected also in the area of health policy. The Government is interested in cutting costs and chopping back funds; it is not interested in policy development. What appears in clause 16 is a whole series of options or alternatives which coexist. To take but one of them, it is suggested in (e):  to enable housing to be let to such charitable bodies and other organisations as are approved by the State Minister for the provision of assistance to disadvantaged persons; 
That seems to be quite contradictory to the fundamental argument that was advanced in favour of the movement towards market rents and rebates, in that we were going to enable people on so-called higher incomes to move out of housing estates and they were going to be replaced by the really poor. That was what Mike Jones was talking about in  Housing and Poverty  in 1 972. That was what the Priorities Review Staff was talking about in 1973. That is what the Henderson Commission of Inquiry on Poverty was talking about. But, what do we find? We find a part of the Bill which is clearly giving a government flexibility to allow the kind of people that a State housing authority ought to be housing as its first prioritythat is what the Government says it is doing- to be dealt with on a charitable basis. The Commonwealth is providing funds for voluntary agencies so that they, perhaps in an even more paternalistic manner than the State Housing Authority can provide the kind of religious based charity services that have been associated with homelessness for so long. 
Another option that the Government has apparently thought about, but not sufficiently to make any commitment, and which is just thrown in as one of the options, though it is not discussed in the Minister's speech, is the suggestion that voluntary, non-profit, charitable or other housing management bodies or groups, as approved by the State Minister, could be used. Examples of that type of group, perhaps positive examples, are the cost rental housing associations which have been developing recently in Victoria and which have received some support from the State Government. 
Again, I think that is an option that ought to be considered, but has the Government, has the Department, evaluated those experiments? Has it seen what has been the result? Has it established that those associations are more successful in providing housing, in managing housing in a way which is less paternalistic, less bureaucratic, in providing a form of administration and, indeed, an efficient alternative to a public housing authority? I do not think that research has been done. I believe that option remains there simply as an option. 
It seems to me that the Government is beginning to recognise certain problems associated with the administration of public housing. So this legislation opens up various options; but it does not indicate how those options are to be evaluated, what the relative priority may be between one option and another, or how those options fit into any overall strategy. The whole issue of planning is related in this section. One has to recognise that the very basis of planning in the urban areas is related to land. The former Opposition, now the Government, has opposed bitterly at both Federal and State levels the creation of land commissions, and has reduced those commissions to much smaller bodies than they might be, by not making available the funds that are necessary. 
-That kind of structural reform has enabled your State of South Australia to sell land more cheaply, in better locations, than has been possible in any other State. The absence of a commitment to that kind of structural reform results in the kind of trivia that we see in this legislation- potentially important but trivial in the way in which it is developed and set up. Paragraph 16 (2) (j) of the agreement talks about undertaking and participating in joint ventrues co-operative enterprises and so on, in order that public housing developments may be integrated with private housing and achieving a desirable socio-economic mixture of housing. That clearly is an extraordinarily important area and one to which I would hope the Government has a sense of commitment. If that is the case, why has the Government rejected the amendment which suggested that the objective ought to be basic to any intelligent housing policy? This is a government which attempts to separate the whole question of housing from its planning, from its land and from its environmental context. It is a government which sees housing in abstraction, fundamentally, from those contexts, so it favours a form of housing in which it is possible for people to surround themselves with an appropriate environment in terms of their own quarter acre. It does not look at housing in social terms. It does not look at it in terms of its possibilities as a positive force for change. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Let me reflect for a moment on some crf the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  particularly his remarks in relation to home ownership. It is not the view oh this side of the House that home ownership ought not to be supported within the Australian community as one of the goals of a national housing policy. However, among the objectives set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)-  a trivial speech which did not go into the policy objectives of the Government ip any detail whatsoever- there is not a single reference to. the situation of tenants. They do, as the honourable member for La 
Trobe suggested, represent a very significant proportion of the Australian population. 
We on this side of the House are not suggesting that home ownership is something which ought to be reduced, which ought to be eliminated within the Australian context. We are suggesting that it is about time that security of tenure was available to people who do not get the so-called security of tenure through home ownership or so-called home ownership through the process of purchasing a house which is, as the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  suggested, increasingly taking a greater and greater proportion of people's lives and more and more of their resources. We believe that the people who do not opt for that form of tenure, the people who are prepared to rent, ought to be given some kind of security. When they are on low incomes, they ought to be able to depend both on security and on a measure of support from the Government. If, in the post-war period, we as a society agreed that home ownership ought to be supported, then we have also agreed in that post-war period that the Government has a responsibility, through its public housing program, to support people on low income, particularly low income renters. 
If we look at the Housing Assistance Bill and the agreement which is contained in it, what strikes one is the complete imbalance in terms of the Government's interests as between home owners and renters. Certainly there are some moves in relation to home ownership which ought to be supported. Of course the critical problems facing potential home owners are the price or the cost of house and land package. These problems are increasing in terms of charges and difficulties in finding housing which is in a convenient location, with access to the full range of services and amenities. The Bill increases the proportion of Commonwealth funds to be paid into the home purchaser's account. It also provides for the escalation of interest rates, as has been described earlier. There is no doubt that what has been a declining amount of money from the Commonwealth Government to the States in terms of grants- a drop of 14 per cent the year before last and 1 1 per cent in this current year- shifts the balance. With this legislation there is a bit more money going to home owners than to renters. But the bulk of what will be provided in addition will be through the revolving nature of the funds- funds will move backwards and forwards between co-operatives and between purchasers more rapidly than they would under normal circumstances. 
There are various problems that one can mention in relation to the home ownership sections of the Bill. First of all, there is the increased use of the private sector for home building purchase, which means that the Government, because of the kind of ideological blinkers that the honourable member for La Trobe displayed so obviously, is not prepared to use the State sector to construct the housing that is to be built under these arrangements for home owners, even though, obviously, economies of scale would be involved. The Government is not looking at the whole basic structure of costs: It is playing around with interest rates and with methods of repayment which distribute the load at various points of people's lives, on the rather dubious assumption, as made by the honourable member for La Trobe, that people's incomes always rise. That is an extraordinary assumption? People's incomes at different periods of their lives can change in various directions. In a time of economic recession there are many people who look forward to seeing their incomes expanding. I instance in particular those who are currently on the dole and who have no income. It seems to me that that assumption which runs right through the background documents, which is present within the Minister's speech and which is present in the legislation, that people's incomes tend to rise is a very questionable assumption. 
Secondly, the Government is to provide this money through co-operative societies. Again, in this Bill and in terms of the background papers, there is not a sentence, not a line of justification for this expanded use, this increased use of cooperative societies. No one suggests that some research has been done to evaluate the way in which co-operative societies are to use their money. What happens? We find that cooperative societies will receive additional funds and that the means tests which applied in the past are to be removed so that the States and the co-operatives have much greater flexibility. According to some authorities- Michael Jones of the Australian National University, for example- in the past co-operative societies in fact did not use their money in a way which was to the advantage of the people on the lowest incomes; they tended to try to avoid giving loans to people who, for example, did not have a significant amount of money for deposit. They tended to try to spread their loans in a way in which they could make the maximum number of individual loans. They tended to be influenced by social relationships and networks of contacts. They did not always operate in what might be regarded as a fair and equitable way. In fact Jones says: 
Allocating funds under the co-operative society loans must be one of the last remaining areas of middle class patronage, rivalled only by the activities of the private health funds. 
Jones may be wrong, but at least the Government could establish a more obvious commitment to ensuring that its money goes to the people for whom it is intended. There appears here to be evidence of a double standard when one considers the attitudes which are expressed with respect to renters of public housing. 
Thirdly, the Government's measures will do nothing to set restraint on the total cost of housing which, as has been demonstrated earlier in this debate by the honourable member for Reid, is the key problem facing low income groups wishing to purchase houses. It is also open to question that the real income of low income groups rises in the way that has been suggested. Nor is there any evidence to suggest that the cooperatives will be prepared to accept the various kinds of income gearing, such as deferred interest repayment, variations in repayment in the case of hardship. That last point is very interesting. I cannot see the co-operatives looking at that measure with a great deal of support. 
Finally, the agreement purports to add to the stock of housing for home purchase by freeing commissions to sell whatever proportion of their rental housing stock they choose to sell, providing they sell for cash at market prices or replacement cost, with access to home purchase assistance funds. This, I believe, ignores the fact that tenants may have already paid off the historic cost of public housing as renters and are therefore required to pay an arbitrarily determined market price at escalating interest rates which do not reflect the costs to State housing authorities. Thus this policy represents a case where the poor will, at least, be subsidising the poor, if not subsidising the higher income earners. Further, it can be argued that because of the tendency for established house prices to rise with increased middle income demand in the established suburbs, the commission will be under pressure to sell off even more of the stock it owns in those areas because of the potential capital gains involved. In other words, the commission itself will be contributing to a process whereby lower income people are increasingly being displaced from the central areas of large cities and indeed are moving more and more to electorates such as that of the honourable member for La Trobe. If one looks at the latest unemployment figures, one finds that the highest rates of unemployment are now in the outer fringe suburbs rather than the inner suburbs. That seems to me to be unfortunate. It does not seem to me to be a process that the Government ought to be encouraging. I think there is a real danger that in the selling off of commission property, the property that will be sold off will be property that has strategic importance in terms of the social policy objectives of the Government, if indeed the government of the time has such objectives- and with this Government I doubt that very much. 
The sections of the agreement which deal with rental housing contain what I believe to be- and I agree with the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in this regard- the class bias of this Government. Paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of the preamble set out the Government's aims, which are to provide adequate rental housing for those in the community who are deemed to be in need of Government assistance at a price which is within their capacity to pay. Paragraph (iii) contains the following words: 
 To exclude from eligibility those not in need, to minimise continued availability of assistance to those no longer in need and to accord benefits which are designed so that assistance being provided is related to particular family's or individual's current economic and social circumstances. 
Section 16 of the agreement sets out what the Government is proposing. I believe that these proposals, which a large number of people would perhaps regard as quite progressive, are in fact conservative proposals. They reflect the conservative philosophy of this Government. They are proposals that ought to be resisted. Indeed, the Government is to be warned that there are sections of my electorate which contain high percentages of housing commission tenants who will indeed resist these poposals 
I think this point should be made with respect to those aspects of the Bill and the agreement which relate to rentable property: The Government is intent on reducing the stock of publicly owned rental housing despite the fact that in Australia we have one of the smallest proportions of public housing, as a percentage of the overall housing stock, of any country in the Western world. I do not mind if the honourable member for La Trobe rejects the view that  we  ought to have a relatively large public housing stock. We do not even have to argue that proposition. Approximately five per cent of the housing of this country is publicly owned. That is a trivial percentage. The percentage of new housing built by the public sector in any one year is small, certainly less than 1 5 per cent in any State. That is not a major percentage. The Government is moving towards cutting into that percentage. It will do this first of all by charging higher interest rates for Commonwealth money and, secondly, by reducing the total allocation of funds to the States for housing. We have seen that in successive years. I am sure that we will see it again in this year's Budget. It will reduce the proportion of funds that must go to rental housing. It will remove all restrictions on the States against selling public housing, previously rental housing. It will encourage the use of funds allocated for rental housing for purposes such as research, urban renewal, joint ventures with co-operative enterprises and any other purposes, including special housing needs or innovative practices, whatever that may mean. 
I believe strongly that State housing authorities ought to be encouraged to be more creative and innovative. State housing authorities- I speak particularly of my own State of Victoriahave been totally reactionary in their approach to housing. Their record is abysmal. One could run through a whole series of criteria and one would have to regret their operations in those respects. But it is no solution to carve into funds allocated for rental housing to provide a whole series of services which ought to be provided out of the Commonwealth Budget and which are not being provided currently because of the savage cuts being made by this Government into the Department 's budget. It is sheer tokenism to provide for research in this area in addition to that provided by the Australian Housing Research Council. It is absurd to cut into rental funds for urban renewal projects which cover a wide range. Innovation ought to exist in rental housing as a matter of course. Separate funds ought not to be provided in the legislation. 
Thus, the Commonwealth through this part of the legislation will reduce the total allocation of funds for rental housing. The program is being developed without the establishment of any clear guidelines and with the Government providing no justification for what must be regarded as one of the most savage attacks on the low income housing sector in the post-war period. At a time when waiting lists for low income rental housing exceed more than 100,000, the Government is cynically reducing the housing stock available for this purpose. Perhaps the Government is not cynically reducing the housing stock but if that is the case the Government ought to prove it. Certainly on our observation of the legislation it seems that the Government is chopping into rental housing funds. This is an extraordinary reactionary government. Historically, so-called Liberal governments have expanded income support programs in times of economic hardship. This Government does the reverse. It is not a 
Liberal government in the classical sense. It is a tory government. In its obsession with home ownership it has in this Agreement written off as of no consequence the 30 per cent of Australians who live in the rental sector. 
Clause 18 (1) of the Agreement suggests that the rates at which rents are payable by tenants of rental housing shall be determined by the States which, when making any such determination, shall have regard to a policy of generally relating rents to rates of rental in the so-called open market. The so-called open market is another vagary which has been written into this legislation. Clearly it has not been researched or established. What is meant by the open market? There are many housing markets in any city. Does this mean that the rents will be related to the housing market that operates closest to where a particular set of Housing Commission flats might be located? Are the rents for a few flats that have been located at Balwyn in Melbourne to be related to the rents of the other houses in that rather wealthy area? Is the market that operates in West Heidelberg to be the market that is closest to Latrobe University or is to be the market that operates when one moves over towards Preston and the industrial areas? This is an absurd concept. It is not spelt out or justified. 
It is incredible that a government can bring in important triennial legislation with no justification and basis for what amounts to fundamental changes and a movement of the country's housing policies away from assumptions which have been accepted for 30 years. We need to consider change. I am not an opponent of change but I believe that the changes that are currently being recommended have been dreamed up by isolated economists and academic institutions which would not know a Housing Commission estate if they saw one. I believe that their views ought to be considered very critically. We ought to have the opportunity to analyse them. That is what we do not have. That seems to me to attack the very basis of what a parliament is all about. 
There are many other points I should like to make if I had time. I should like to talk about the whole area of rental rebates. An extraordinary proposal is emanating from the Government. We will have both market rents which are annually determined- we should remember all the various markets for which market rents will have to be determined- and a rebate system. Available figures indicate that in a time of economic hardships rebates are already rising at a very fast rate. It was about 10 per cent last year. Now there will be another great escalation in housing rebates to catch up with the market rents. We have created an extraordinarily complicated administrative  system  which is designed to deal with the people who are the equivalent in housing terms of the dole bludgers. 
The Henderson report referred to the 70 per cent of people who were living on housing estates and who ought not to have been there because they had higher incomes. But they were not rich people, as the Minister suggested in his speech. They were simply people who were somewhere between poverty and average weekly earnings only in the particular week that they were visited by the Henderson surveyors. It is extraordinary that the Government is to single out these people, many of whom have established social relationships and ties. They live on estates where they have built up work patterns. They are to be moved towards market rents. Of course they will get rebates if their income necessitates them but that is not denned by the Government. Apparently the Government has not done any research on rent rebates that it sees fit to show to the Parliament. It cannot estimate what the return will be. It cannot tell us what will be the relationship between the return and the administrative costs. This legislation is bad. It is vague. It challenges the authority of the Parliament I look forward to dealing with some of these matters in greater detail at the Committee stage of the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
With reference to the review of bulk billing commissioned in February 1977, completed before 30 June 1977 and noted on page 98 of the Annual Report of the DirectorGeneral of Health for 1 976-77, does the Government intend to release this report for public discussion before a decision is announced eliminating bulk billing. 
) Is the supression of this report consistent with his claim on 4 April 1978 that he was anxious to stimulate public discussion. 
Has the report on bulk billing been suppressed because (a) it does not bear out the assertions that bulk billing stimulates cost inflation and (b) the data upon which it was based was inadequate, due to the lack of co-operation of the private funds. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a sentence in the speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  of a week ago in which he announced without any justification that bulk billing would be abolished and I want to point to the answer to a question which I received yesterday - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. It concerns the homes savings grant scheme which was reintroduced by the Government in 1976. Is it a fact that the committee of review on continuing expenditure in 1973 referred to the obvious inequities and the ease with which the scheme can be exploited and raised real doubts as to the merits of its continuance? Is it a fact that a review is being carried out by the Government of the Homes Savings Grant Scheme? Is it also a fact that the review has established that the bulk of the funds distributed under the scheme have gone or will go to people in the higher income brackets? Would the Minister agree that in practice this scheme conflicts with the objective of the Government, as stated in the Minister's second reading speech on the Housing Assistance Bill, that its housing policies were designed to encourage home ownership - 
I do not want to take up the time of the Committee by making a long speech, but I want to say three things very briefly. Firstly, I want to underline what has been said by previous speakers about the nature of speeches made in second reading debates in this House and to say that the intelligence of members has been insulted repeatedly by speeches of the type we heard during the debate on this Bill. Secondly, I want to say that in this case, as in the case of successive pieces of government legislation, the evidence is that the basis on which the Government has made changes has been hidden from the House. Again and again we are presented with situations in which the Government is proposing a change in relation to which the only argument it can present is its own prejudices. The third point I want to make, which takes me more closely into the Bill, is to draw attention to the way in which the power has been shifted within the nature of the Trade Union Training Authority so that we now have elevated in place of a broadly representative board- other honourable members have referred to this- a National Director appointed by the Minister operating in the context of an executive which clearly can be controlled by management when the  Chairman  appointed by the Minister is prepared to go in that direction. 
I want to make just one point in that regard. If one looks at education in this country- it has to be said, as I think the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  was attempting to suggest earlier, education is in a real sense power- one realises that what we have is a disequilibrium of power. We do not have a situation in which there are relatively equal partners; we have a situation in which a very large section of Austraiian society has been cut off from the massive funds which we have put into education in the past few years. 
Let us think for a moment about capital. There are possibly 30 business schools operating in this country at a tertiary level. The operating expenses of those 30 business schools would perhaps be $10m a year, and that is putting capital costs aside. 
-Perhaps $20m. Let us put the figure at what it might be. The ethos of business schools and economic schools throughout this country is antithetical to the whole of the interests of Labor. The people who are enrolled in those courses will certainly not be operating in a trade union context. There is a real sense in which the disequilibrium of power, which I am suggesting exists in this society, is reflected in educational institutions. 
The point I want to make is that one institution has been established to serve the trade union movement, to provide, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has suggested quite properly, education for the trade union movement rather than some narrow notion of training. What has happened in that one institution? We have seen that institution guttered. We have seen power shifted in that institution so that management controls that one area. If this Government, which says that it intends to talk about consensus and that it is trying to achieve a situation in society in which all groups are somehow represented in some kind of corporate decision making, takes over the one institution which provides the basis for the trade union movement to develop a capacity for articulating its views on major questions, including questions that involve matters directly affecting people in the work force, then it seems to me quite clear that what this Government is on about is not consensus but conflict. Whilst the honourable member for Cunningham was accused of prosecuting a view of conflict, it is in fact the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who is encouraging conflict within this society by bringing in this piece pf legislation, because he is ripping the guts out of the Trade Union Training Authority. He is creating a situation in which conflict is inevitable, because there is no basis for discussion and no basis for education. 
I want to draw out that point finally by simply referring to a clause of this Bill which we considered earlier. It is clear from clause 7 that it is quite possible- indeed, it may even be inevitablethat the National Director of the Executive Board which can be controlled by management will be able to transfer resources outside of the Trade Union Training Authority altogether. The situation can develop where management courses run by businesses may receive funds so that token trade unionists can come along, and the paltry Sim a year recurrent funds, or whatever the amount is, will get diverted off to support management so that it can make a token gesture in regard to the odd trade unionist. It can say that it has involved them in an educational program. It seems that what has been said to the Committee tonight from our side ought to be heard by the Minister. It certainly ought to be heard by him when we hear him talking about consensus, when we hear him talking about consultation, and when we hear him talking about labour and management working together. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, on notice, on 8 May 1978: 
What are the specific statistical bases for the Government's planned immigration policy in the light of (a) the inadequacy of current Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force surveys in terms of identifying (i) the extent of unemployment at State levels by age, (ii) the incidence of unemployment by level of skill and semi-skill in specific industries, and (iii) the incidence of unemployment among specific ethnic groups and (b) the inadequacy of current Commonwealth Employment Service registration figures in terms of identifying (i) the incidence of unemployment by level of skill and semi-skill in specific industries, (ii) the nonregistration of married women with working husbands, and (iii) the arbitrary accreditation in Australia of qualifications gained overseas by job applicants. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
1 ) What have been the total approximate costs incurred by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in undertaking (a) the unemployment survey of February 1978 and (b) the unemployment survey of March 1978. 
What is the approximate projected cost of the monthly Australian Bureau of Statistics unemployment surveys to (a) December 1978 and (b) December 1980. 
Which previously existing social and economic household surveys have been temporarily discontinued as a consequence of the introduction of the monthly Australian Bureau of Statistics survey of unemployment. 
What plans are currently in progress to allow for an expansion of the sample size of quarterly labour force surveys conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
What plans are currently in progress to provide a more detailed breakdown in Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force surveys of industry, occupation and level of skill or semi-skill. 
What plans are currently in progress to provide a more detailed breakdown in Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force surveys of the ethnicity of employed and unemployed persons. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs upon notice on 2 May 1 978: 
1 ) How many permanent residents of Australia are not Australian citizens. 
) How many persons applied for citizenship in 1 977. 
What is the average length of time from receipt of application to the granting of citizenship. 
How many applications for citizenship were refused in 1977. 
What (a) was the country of birth and (b) is the present State of residence of these persons referred to in parts(l),(2)and(4). 
How many of the persons referred to in parts ( I ), (2 ) and (4) reside in the Electoral Division of Batman and what were the countries of birth of these persons. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) With reference to section 76a of the National Health Act, when does he anticipate tabling the report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations. 
Does he recognise the difficulties involved in his calling for stimulating public debate on health costs when the most recently published information on the operations of the health insurance funds is now almost 2 years out of date, and in which time dramatic changes have been made to the health insurance arrangements. 
) Is the delay in tabling the report due to failure by some health insurance funds to provide the Department with the basic information concerning their operations. 
Which funds in each State failed to submit the prescribed financial statements to the Permanent Head of his Department within 3 months of the expiration of 1976-77, and how many funds have been prosecuted under subsection 76 ( 1 ) of the Act. 
Will he specify the information that he currently requires from the funds under sub-section 74c ( 1 ) of the Act. 
Will he name those organisations which have failed to provide complete returns to him pursuant to directions issued under sub-section 74c (2) of the Act within 3 months of receiving those directions. 
What action does he propose to take in relation to health insurance funds which do not comply with directions issued by him under section 74c of the Act. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to discontinue the publication of the numbers of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service offices on a monthly basis; if so, what are the Government's plans in terms of replacing existing CES regional unemployment statistics. 
If monthly figures are to be continued, what plans are currently in progress to improve their detail and accuracy. 
-This year's Budget marks an important stage in the history of this Government. It represents the point where it passes from the stage where it can suggest with any degree of credibility that the problems facing Australia and the Australian economy are in any real sense a reflection of the policies of the Whitlam Labor Government. From this point on the Government will be forced to accept judgment on the basis of its own record of economic management, its own set of priorities, its own peculiar set of responses to the interests which lie behind the Liberal and National Country Parties and which inevitably influence its policies. 
It is instructive in any consideration of this Budget to remind ourselves of the objectives set by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser as the Leader of the Opposition in his policy speech in 1975 and to remind ourselves of the promises that were made only to be subsequently broken; to remind ourselves of the high tone of morality and responsibility; to remind ourselves of the promise of restoration of initiative, of higher rates of growth and the reduction of levels of unemployment. There is indeed a curious contrast between a Prime Minister who regards an election promise as sacrosanct and a government that cannot be trusted to keep its word about any of its promises. Let us recall some of those promises. They included policies for producing a growth rate of 6 per cent to 7 per cent and the effective halving of the deficit. The Liberal and National Country Parties said: 'We will fully index personal income tax for inflation over the next three years. We will be generous to those who cannot get a job and want to work. Under a Liberal and National Country Party government there will be jobs for all who want to work. There will be no more international safaris for members of parliament'. One could go on and on. They also said: 'We will continue urban programs. We are the people who can work with State and local governments to overcome the problems caused by rapid growth in the cities and the new expanding suburbs'. I think we can say that those promises are now history because they are promises that have not been honoured. 
On the other hand, the Government of Malcolm Fraser has kept its promises to financial institutions whose continuing support is basic to the retention of this Government in office. There have been the investment and depreciation allowance provisions; there have been the stock valuation provisions; there has been the industrial legislation; the Prices Justification Tribunal has been gutted, and so on. There has been a massive attempt to turn the clock back to the Menzies years. However, the promised halcyon days have not returned and now even sections of big business are among the most trenchant critics of government policy. In 1975 we were promised government by consensus. We have in fact moved from a situation of temporary recession into a period which might be described as a depression that is comparable in some respects to the situation that existed in the 1930s. The Government is no longer able to blame its predecessor. So the Government is now moving to launch a bitter attack on the average wage and salary earners- the grass roots base of the Labor movement. 
One could say that the greatest single criticism of this Budget is not simply that it reflects no strategy to achieve economic recovery- that is certainly true- but that, even more seriously it reflects no sense of the need to ensure that the burden of economic recession is in any sense shared fairly or justly by people with different degrees of access to income, services, influence or power. 
The present Prime Minister made much in 1975 and 1977 of providing a government for all Australians. It was to be no sectional government looking after privileged interests. On the contrary, it was to be a government for the people who work in the offices and factories and on the farms of Australia. However, this is not what this Budget is about. This Budget is essentially a class Budget- just as was true of the two Budgets that preceded it. It is a Budget which is specifically designed to ensure that the burden, the costs and the suffering which are afflicting Australian people should be borne by the ordinary wage and salary earners, by the people who are unable to take a place in the work force- by the unemployed, by the pensioners, by the sick and the aged- and by the families of this nation which traditionally have produced this country's wealth but which are rarely in a position to influence the way it is distributed. More than that, the Budget is based on the proposition that those people, particularly the 60 per cent of Australians who are on average weekly earnings or less and who are fortunate enough to be in employment, are the enemy of this country simply insofar as they endeavour to maintain their standards of living let alone improve them. They have become the scapegoats for this Government. They are the victims who the current Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  a mere cipher for the Prime Minister, must blame and castigate. 
The basis of this new attack is clearly laid in the failure of the two Lynch Budgets. It was no doubt because of his economic failures, not his moral traits, that the Prime Minister had to remove the previous Treasurer during last year's election campaign. The House will remember that  Mr Lynch  promised in his 1976 Budget Speech that there would be a gradual improvement in the rate of unemployment in that financial year and said that 'prospects for a gain in the unemployment area would grow in the following year.' However, by August 1977 the same  Mr Lynch,  who was talking in the House a few moments ago about what we might have said had lost this earlier confidence in his Government's policies and predicted only some reduction in unemployment and said that, on balance, the likelihood is for little or no change over the period. In fact, there were substantial rises in the levels of unemployment in the years of each of the Lynch Budgets. The present Treasurer, however, is wiser as a result of  Mr Lynch  's experience and admits to actual increases in unemployment in this year- perhaps another 90,000 persons. However, whereas  Mr Lynch  had accepted reduction of the level of unemployment as a government responsibility, the present Treasurer no longer suggests this is the responsibility of the Government. He says that 'real wages are still too high and this remains a major cause of the unacceptable levels of unemployment'; that is, that the responsibility for curing the basic and serious problems facing this country must be put at the door of ordinary wage and salary earners who have already borne the brunt of changing government policies in the two previous Budgets and are also bearing the brunt as a result of Government pressure on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and a general reduction in the social wage as a result of this Government 's policies. 
This judgment on which hangs the whole basis of the argument implicit in the Treasurer's speech is certainly not subscribed to by major academic economists who in some other respects have not been so critical of the Government's policies. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has said, for example, in regard to a most recent survey of the economy that  ... an unduly high level of real labor costs can be a cause of unemployment but that on its assessment of the evidence the relative levels of wages and profits and the level of real wages are not the major factors behind the high level of unemployment in 1977-78. Indeed, the Institute went on to argue that 'reductions in real wages that are not accompanied by offsetting measures to stimulate activity will add to rather than reduce unemployment. 
Similarly, the Institute of Labour Studies at Flinders University in South Australia suggests that the argument concerning a real wage overhang stemming from 1974 is a misinterpretation of the evidence based on a failure to distinguish sufficiently in calculations between the public and the private sector. It points out that the tendency of the public sector to grow in times of economic recession means that aggregate estimates of the total share of wages and salaries disguise sectoral trends. It is maintained by the Institute that an analysis of the market sector as opposed to the public sector shows that labour costs have been steadily declining since 1974 and that the effect of that trend is to remove the basis of the wage overhang argument. Indeed, the Institute goes on to argue that real wage overhang is not to be regarded as a condition for recovery and that too much effort aimed at reducing real wages might easily backfire and intensify the recession. It says that real wages are a major component of real household disposable income, which is the main constraint on private consumption behaviour. 
Similarly, the Government has been obsessed since 1975 with the size of the deficit. However, the Government has in fact been amassing relatively large deficits as a result of the increasingly depressed state of the economy and as a result of two relatively contractionary Budgets and now a severely contractionary Budget. This will mean that we can expect to see not taken up the substantially unused capacity which exists in industry as there will be no stimulus either from the deficit or from a rise in consumption as the result of the effects of the Government's considerable pressure to reduce even further real wages. Insofar as there will be transfers of income occurring via the Budget those transfers will tend to go to people and institutions that will not be prepared to invest in manufacturing or construction industries but are more likely to store investment, invest in property or in sectors of industry with no real capacity for massive job creation. The end result of these policies will be a combination of ever increasing levels of unemployment and depressed living conditions for hundreds of thousands of Australians. It is just sheer nonsense for the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  to come into this House and talk about the alternative Budget being more likely to create unemployment. This Government has doubled the rate of unemployment in 2Vi years. If this Government is allowed to continue for the next  2'A  years with the policies that it has pursued in the last 2'/i years then we are talking about one million unemployed in the early 1980s. 
The principal argument that I wish to put is that this is a class Budget. It is a Budget which is designed to foster divisions in Australian society rather than achieve consensus; a Budget which reflects a narrow and extraordinarily short term view of Australian interests, in that it makes no contribution to dealing with the long term problems of Australian industry or indeed of Australian society. There is not present within the Budget Speech itself, or in the accompanying papers, any attempt to analyse human problems or to place the narrow economic perspective of the Treasury in any broader social perspective. There is no hint that the economic problems that we face as a nation are problems of social and political structure or indeed are influenced by a changing social and economic context. The Budget is based on what might be regarded as simplistic notions of trend analysis where the Government's role as an allocator of resources is reduced to the manipulation of the narrowest economic statistics. 
The result is that people in a real sense are reduced to statistics, and the human implications or impacts of those statistics are presented without any indication of sensitive analysis. In no aspect of the Budget Speech is this clearer than in relation to the problem of unemployment. Even the projected estimates for unemployment have to be inferred and are nowhere clearly stated. It is even difficult to do that because of the lack of analysis, for example, of the meaning of a term such as 'participation rate'. Should not those people who give up all hope of getting a job be included in the projected estimates of the unemployed? Does not a tendency for a drift to occur in the 'participation rate' mean the loss of valuable resources as well as an increased burden on those on whom they become dependent? 
We have no analysis of the scale and distribution of unemployment. There is no suggestion that special regions of the country, or indeed special industries, may be suffering higher rates of unemployment than average and may require special programs and assistance. Why has the automobile industry, as opposed to the construction industry, been chosen for a stimulus? No justification is provided, because there is no rationale on social grounds for making the decision. Indeed, rather than placing an emphasis on increased assistance channelled to areas of high unemployment, the Budget has running through it a vindictive strain which would have the Department of Social Security expanding its budget, not to provide special assistance for the unemployed but rather to increase the policing of them. The unemployed are to be pursued, stigmatised and, if necessary, ostracised. Everyone recognises that unemployment is a complex problem and that alternative theories can be advanced about the future for full employment. However, the insensitivity of this Government, which screams so much about waste and extravagance in the investment of money, in its failure to invest in the lives of young Australians, has to be seen to be believed. I am sure that that is a matter of considerable embarrassment to the absent Government back benchers and to their committee on unemployment. It is absurd to be spending thousands of millions on unemployment benefits and not to have the Government sponsoring a single job creation program. 
Even the Government's policies on training schemes are difficult to follow. Having emasculated the National Employment and Training scheme, which at least provided some kind of framework for manpower planning in the education and training area, the Government has introduced as part of the NEAT scheme the Special Youth Employment Training Program which subsidises employers, at their profit, and provides six months of cheap labour and perhaps training. Having seen the weaknesses of the scheme, the Minister, rather than revamping and rethinking it and devising a more effective program, budgets for more funds, lower rates of subsidies and shorter training periods. In other words, he throws more money away. There is hardly a comparable country to ours which does not have job creation policies and programs. This would seem to me to be a matter of the utmost urgency. As the Government begins to face up to the widening divisions which we have seen appearing, I hope that pressure will be brought to bear on the Ministry to do something about this lack. 
The Government, which for  2lh  years has pursued and scapegoated the unemployed, is now setting out to do a job on the working people of this country. For 2 1/2 years the Government has sought, via the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, to reduce workers' standards of living by attacking the basis of indexation. The lower the rate of increase in the consumer price index, the more vigorously the Government is seeking to bear down on wages and conditions. Now it is seeking to open up another front. The income tax surcharge falls most heavily on people with incomes at the lowest end of the range. The surcharge affects the wealthy the least. On top of the so-called tax cuts, the changes to the tax system substantially affect its basic equity and provide little or no relief for working people. Now, to hammer the point home, there are indirect taxes which, added together, might cost the average family another $ 10 a week. That $ 10 a week has to come out of a minimum income of $120 or $130 which has to look after a family. Unlike income tax increases, the indirect taxes are much more harsh in their effects on the pensioners, the under-employed and the unemployed. These changes in the tax system are extraordinary, given the Government's promise to introduce full tax indexation. We had half tax indexation and now we have a half indexation plus a surcharge. 
Those measures also have to be compared with other measures that are taken. I refer, for example, to the abolition this year of estate and gift duty, making Australia the only country in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development that has no tax whatsoever on wealth. Add to this various measures which the Government has introduced for companies, such as the investment allowance and the stock valuation adjustment, and we can see transfers to companies and wealthy individuals of more than $ 1,000m. That is happening while the lower income family struggles to get the marginal dollar. 
A further example of the way in which the Budget is geared to serve class interests is the abolition of the concessional tax rates on annual leave and long service leave payments on retirements from a job. This will severely reduce the retirement benefits of blue collar workers, many of whom have little or no superannuation entitlements and whose major or sole retirement benefit is accumulated leave. With this Government a person cannot afford to gain a little because the Government will push him right down again. 
So it is possible to go throught the Budget, to examine various sections of it and to find a similar trend. The Government is on about reducing people's standards of living in a myriad of ways. The worker who manages to get together a deposit on a house no longer will be eligible to receive a benefit under the mortgage interest deduction scheme. He may manage to get a home savings grant if he is able to hang on for a year or so, but that scheme might go in the next Budget. If he was hoping to get into a housing commission home he will find that the waiting list will become longer because of cuts in expenditure on public housing. Whether he is after housing commission accommodation or otherwise, if he is a low income earner he will find it more difficult to get housing closer to the city. He will have to look for housing in the very outer suburbs or in the country area, where jobs are scarce. He will probably find that there is no sewerage because the Commonwealth has chopped that program. Public transport does not even get what was decided two months ago in the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill. The allocation has been chopped by $20m. The home buyer may need to watch out for freeway constructions, because the Government no longer is funding environmental investigation and research. 
The situation in State schools was improving, but now funds are being diverted to assist the wealthier private schools to encourage initiative and to encourage children to show respect for privilege. We will return to the situation of having to raise most of the money for any day care or pre-school program, and there is no hope of a community health centre being established in such an area. The home buyer should buy near a hospital because the hospital development program has gone too. If a person is really poor he could take a risk on not insuring against sickness, but he should wear old clothes when he visits the doctor and he should remember to restore his working class accent so that he gets classified as being socially disadvantaged. 
It is possible to go on and on looking for examples of areas in which the Government has saved a dollar and made someone carry the burden. Unemployment benefits are not indexed, and for the unemployed without dependants and for the single youth under 1 8 years of age they remain at $36 or 50 per cent below the poverty line. On the whole, one does not expect LiberalNational Country Party Budgets to be imaginative. They are not usually human; this one is unusually inhumane. However, the critical problem to which we must return is the narrow view of budgeting, of economics, that this Budget encompasses. The Prime Minister has taken this country in a certain direction for a short term again. He has already had to reverse his policies on taxation. He will have to reverse them on other issues. He cannot continue to pursue a new federalism policy under which the basic economic priorities of the country are being determined by States rather than by the Federal Government. This Budget is essentially a class Budget. It ought to be condemned. 
-The two pieces of legislation which are before the House today are not entirely unrelated. I think that one could quite justifiably argue insofar as government cutbacks in those support services that enable people to live within the home unit and to remain within the community are concerned that those people are not by any definition homeless and that if a government were to reduce the level of support it provides to people to enable them to live in their own homes perhaps those people who receive a pension and have what is necessary will be able to obtain institutional care. But in a real sense one might argue that some of the people on the lower end of the income scale might well be forced to join the homeless persons population. 
Perhaps that is an extreme statement, but I think that when one looks at government policy in this area one has to begin to relate the position of the destitute people to that of the poor people. This Government is a government which, if it continues to pursue the policies contained in this year's Budget, is going to make a lot of poor people destitute. It is going to make a lot of people who until now have been able to make it and to survive within the community a part of what has been referred to historically as Skid Row, both in this country and throughout the world. These are people who in a real sense are not able to support themselves and who require support from the community. 
We are looking at two pieces of legislation. In the first instance I want to speak about the States 
Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has argued that what we see as a chop back in the subsidy- the change from a $2 for $ 1 basis to a $1 for $1 basis- represents not so much a genuine cut back but a rearrangement of the funding processes. He argued that it cannot be seen in any real sense as an attack on, for example, the aged people in the community. That is not the way that Professor Henderson sees it. Professor Henderson knows a great deal about the aged and, more importantly, he knows a great deal about the aged poor. He knows that the survival of people who are poor and aged is very much related to the way in which they are housed and that if we take people out of a domestic setting and place them in an institutional setting it has an enormous effect on costs. Professor Henderson is reported as having said: 
The Government's decision to cut its contribution towards home-help services and the salaries of welfare officers employed by local councils would not save money. It would cost the Government $10,000 a year for every old age pensioner who was institutionalised because they could not alone cope at home. 
The article from which I am reading continues: 
Professor Henderson said it would also cost an immeasurable amount in human hardship, family breakdown and psychological stress . . . Professor Henderson said that the States, already in a difficult position, were more likely to cut their own contribution to the program than make up the difference. 
Professor Henderson's judgment was that the States would not make up the difference and make that contribution. The honourable member for Murray can hope as much as he likes, but we should remember the scornful terms in which this Government, when it came to power, described the relationship of the Labor Government with the States. What do we find is the situation on a simple matter such as the subsidy for home care? It has been demonstrated that the Commonwealth has not been able to reach any agreement with the States on a program which costs just a few million dollars a year. Yet it is a program which is critically important to aged people within communities throughout Australia. Aged people in the various electorates throughout Australia- certainly aged people in my electorate, which embraces the city of Northcote and which has one of the highest proportions of aged people in the population of any municipality within Australia- are very angry about this Government. They are protesting and writing letters and they will have influence within the community. They know damned well that the Northcote City Council, with all the demands that are placed on it, servicing as it does a very low income community, will find it extremely difficult to pick up the matching money that will be required. What is  Mr Hamer  going to do for the Northcote City Council with the kind of Budget he is going to bring down? He is not going to do very much. Professor Henderson is reported also as having said: 
There is a real danger that staff will be cut back and services will be cut back. 
The article from which I am reading continues: 
Professor Henderson accused the Government of leading local councils 'up the garden path' by offering subsidies for welfare schemes and then not continuing to pay for them once they were operating . . . 'Local government is going to stop providing welfare services because it has become fed up being left holding the baby', he said. Scores of frail old people will be forced into institutions because of the decision . . . Many of the people would die without seeing their homes again. 
That is what Professor Henderson said. He was appointed by a Liberal Government to carry out the most comprehensive inquiry into poverty in Australia.  His  report focused on people who are outside the work force, particularly on the aged poor. That is what Professor Henderson said. Let us take another institution that ought to know something about the ageing, not only in the electorates of Murray or Batman but right across Australia. Let us hear what the Australian Council on the Ageing had to say about this progressive move, as the honourable member for Murray describes it. It stated: 
While State Governments and non-government organisations do much, support from the Federal Government is essential. The Federal Government is reducing its contribution by one-third. There is a body of expert opinion which states that older people should be assisted to remain in their own homes whenever possible rather than in institutional care . . . 
That is what this Government is on about. It has already increased the health budget after bleating about health costs for 12 months. What is it going to do? It will increase the health budget by forcing people out of their homes and into institutional accommodation. That is what the Australian Council on the Ageing has said. This legislation represents economic nonsense and social nonsense. It represents economic nonsense in the sense that it will increase costs for care; it represents social nonsense in the sense that the elderly people prefer to live within their own communities. They prefer to live in their own homes and they prefer to live in a situation they know and in which they are known. The force and the effect of this Government's moves in this area is to go in the reverse direction. It will increase costs and it will move people towards institutionalisation. 
One has to look at it in an even broader context than that. This particular move- a move which strikes at the aged across Australia- is part of a program of legislation flowing from this Budget, associated with this Budget, which is designed particularly to attack the aged and the low income groups across the country. The Budget which is before the House at the present time, along with these particular measures which cut out services, represents an attack on people 's income. There is a movement towards indirect forms of taxation. Indirect forms of taxation bear down hardest on the lower income groups and pensioner groups. The aged people whom I have just been discussing are not only being attacked in terms of the reduction of services but they also are being attacked through income measures which the Government has introduced. These measures, in a sense, single out these kinds of people and have a most savage effect on them. 
The other legislation with which we are dealing is the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1978. The Government is continuing this Act for a further year. There are some points that I want to make about this legislation. In the first place, much was said by the honourable member for Murray about trying to sort out this difficult relationship between various levels of government. Honourable members will recall the confidence, the stridency, of the Opposition in 1975. It knew how to sort out these complex inter-relationships between the various States. Members of the then Opposition were going to fix it up. Money was not going to be thrown away; it was going to be rationalised within highly co-ordinated programs in which functions would be sorted out between the various levels of government. One would have to agree with much of that rhetoric. One would have to say that we are a country which, particularly in the welfare area, has developed highly complicated and complex structures. One would hope for some simplification in this area. One would hope that powers between the various States could be sorted out. 
I think that the honourable member for Murray suggested that one could make a distinction between responsibilities of the Government in relation to income and capital works and the responsibility of the States for the delivery of services. On the face of it, that seems like a sensible distinction, a sensible decision to make. But we know that in this specific area, the co-ordination of welfare services, it is very difficult, for example, to define a homeless population. What have we had? We have had a report known as the Bailey report which, I think, was completed last year. It has been available to the Government certainly for many months, if not years. I am not sure exactly where  Mr Bailey  is. I am not sure whether he is any longer in a position to implement that report, if the Government had any interest in it. I should like to refer to a document entitled 'A place of dignity' which, I think, is a first class document. I suspect that the faceless author has been involved with homeless people for a very long time and knows a great deal about his subject. On page 3 these words appear: 
The Minister explained to Parliament that 'the Government is in favour of making the Act more effective in meeting the needs of a wider range of homeless people (but) has not yet reached a decision on the proposals of the Task Force on co-ordination in welfare and health, one of which is that is that the homeless persons assistance program should become part of a wider 'sheltered accommodation program', administration of which might be devolved to the State governments'. 
That is a very interesting proposition. But first of all let us consider the context. What is the Government doing about the Bailey report? What is it doing overall? How do the amendments we have seen in relation to the home savings grants scheme relate to that report? I do not think it relates at all because I do not think that the Government has a policy in this whole area. But more seriously, if one thinks for a moment about devolving back to the State governments the responsibility for homelessness, one realises that the homeless persons program has been directed almost exclusively to the destitute. It has been directed to the traditional Skid Row homeless populations of Australian cities. It has been directed to a group of people who, in the history of this country, have been the most neglected, the most stigmatised, the most isolated, and have been denied their rights time and time again. They have never been given a guaranteed income and have been the least understood of any group of people within the Australian community. 
The Government wants to hand over that responsibility to the States. Let us think about that. It took 75 years for the Commonwealth to introduce legislation which simply re-enforced the voluntary traditional agencies, with all their paternalism, with all their charity. It enabled those agencies to begin to do a better job. The Government is going to hand this responsibility back to the States whose record in this area is abominable. One can say that State governments have, from time to time, given handouts to homeless people. From time to time they have made grants such as in the case of Gordon House in Melbourne. But for the most part they have not developed anything like the kind of services that are required for homeless person's accommodation. I see no sign that the States have the will to do it. To hand back this particular program to the States would require an enormous amount of discussion. I certainly require to be convinced that there has been a great change of heart. 
That is the first point I want to mention. The second point is that one has to remember that despite what has been done- I take the report's suggestion that considerable progress has been made over the four years of the program's existence- nowhere near as much money has been spent as should have been. The original amount of money allocated has not been spent; nor has the amount of money that had been estimated for each year been spent. One has to take with a certain cynicism the amount allocated for this year. One can expect, on past performances, that the total amount allocated will not be spent. I would like the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  who is sitting at the table, to indicate why this has happened. Repeatedly the amount for the program has been underspent. Despite that, a considerable amount of good work has been done, particularly in upgrading accommodation and basic services for homeless people. 
If one looks at the report 'A Place of Dignity', one finds that the average cost for a person in institutional accommodation is an extraordinary figure. In this report it has been calculated at about $12 a week. What does that say about the type of accommodation in which people are living? It says that most people who are living in the night shelters in the great cities of this country are living in dormitories which, in any other circumstances, would be regarded as sub-standard accommodation. The fact that subsidies are available and in certain selected cases superior accommodation is starting to be provided ought not to blind one to the fact that the standard of accommodation for homeless people in the various cities of this country, with few exceptions, is a disgrace. The amount of money that has been spent in this area might improve the accommodation. But a great deal of the accommodation does not need to be improved; it needs to be replaced. 
Given time, I could raise many other things about the whole question of homelessness, which interests me a great deal. When one talks glibly about bringing programs together under a service head, such as all the programs that are providing shelter, it sounds good; but when we talk about the particular characteristics of the various homeless populations and the conjunction, for example, as was suggested at one stage, of the women's refuge program with the traditional program for social derelicts, we are talking about very different populations. The term 'homelessness' can mean all sorts of different things. It can relate to very different groups of people. I think one needs to be well aware of that. 
I think a lot more thought needs to be given to denning the needs of homeless people. It is suggested in the report 'A Place of Dignity' that homeless people's needs are not much different from anyone else's. We know that 87 per cent of people going to court on vagrancy charges in New South Wales are convicted. That means that a homeless person, a vagrant type of person or someone who appears in court looking like he is not the average citizen has a much poorer chance of getting justice in the court system than anyone else. We can look at the area of health services, which is an important area for homeless people. Health services have discriminated time and again against the destitute population within this country. One could, if one had time, cite particular examples to show that homeless people are not getting the same kind of deal from health services as the rest of the community. I think it is important that this legislation be continued. It is important that the Commonwealth Government continue to play role in the area of homelessness. Considerable progress has been achieved; a great deal more could be done. 
Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs assure this House that no member of his Department or staff told the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council that the Government would not take a dispute over the Ranger agreement to arbitration and instead would legislate to destroy the Northern Land Council's ability to negotiate? 
-I ask the Treasurer: Why has the Government found it necessary to tax payments made to such people as rehabilitees, people in sheltered employment, and people receiving tuberculosis allowances, including housekeeper allowances? Has the Treasurer, in consultation with the Minister for Social Security, discussed the possible additional costs to be borne by the Government as a result of a likely increase in the institutionalisation of the handicapped flowing from the Government's decision? Now that the Government has decided to exclude blind pensioners, what are the revised estimates of income to be derived from taxing the pensions of the severely handicapped? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of statements made in Darwin by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerning the future of Aboriginal land rights legislation? Is the Prime Minister aware that these statements have been interpreted as a threat by several members of the Northern Land Council? Will the Prime Minister give the Northern Land Council and this House an assurance that the Government will not in any way, through legislation or otherwise, weaken the Northern Land Council or the land rights legislation should the present situation in the Northern Territory not produce a favourable result for the Government? 
-One would have hoped that the whole question of the migration policy could in the present circumstances have been a bipartisan policy. Indeed, a successful migration policy really depends not on the support of particular parties or sections of the community but on a degree of concensus about what are the goals of the migration policy and what is the basis of that policy. I think it is quite wrong for the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  to suggest that there was anything about the Labor Party when it was in office or in Opposition which could possibly suggest that the Labor Party was against immigration or that it was against migrants. I think that a good deal of assessment is often made of policies, particularly in respect of the Labor Party, on the basis of the very brief period that Party was in office. I think that one ought to recognise that for 23 years there was a Liberal Party government in this country which certainly did not talk about multi-culturalism, which certainly did not introduce programs on migrant education, which certainly did not support centres like the Ecumenical Migration Centre or the Migrants Clearing House and which left voluntary agencies with limited resources to fight alone in the whole field of migration welfare. That situation changed in the beginning of 1973. I believe that in many respects the Galbally report continues that process of change. 
I do not want particularly to criticise the Government for what it is doing in implementing the various recommendations of the Galbally report. Rather, I think the Government ought to be congratulated. But, having said that, one ought to recognise that migrant welfare cannot be separated from the whole question of the welfare of the community in general. One cannot look at a policy in relation to migrants in separation from the policies which, for example, a government adopts in relation to the management of the economy and the management of employment. I had intended to spend rather more time on the Galbally report and on some of the excellent products of that report which are embodied in these estimates, but because of the remarks of the two previous speakers from the other side in relation to employment I think it is important to indicate to the Committee and to draw attention to the fact that conflicts which divide this society and conflict with which government must grapple are not always conflict between labour and capital. Sometimes there is written into the nature of a government itself and into the nature of the departments of which it is composed, a conflict of interest between various departments. 
I think that conflict which exists and which, to some extent is reflected in these estimates, was underlined by what was said by the previous  speaker.  He spoke optimistically about how migration would not produce increased unemployment. Indeed, he spoke as though unemployment was just a passing phenomenon. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  does not suggest that unemployment is a passing phenomenon. Indeed, only the other day he said to members of the Government side as well as to members on this side that there was no escaping the fact that we are suffering from a great deficiency of jobs. There are people who are genuinely and earnestly seeking employment but who cannot find it. We owe it to ourselves to face this fact. I put it to honourable members that whilst the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations may have faced the facts about unemployment, we see reflected in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs an inability on the part of that Department to face that kind of reality. It is unable to face the reality that we are not at the beginning of some great recovery: We are in the middle of the most extended recession this country has faced for 40 years. 
There is evidence that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is suggesting that in those circumstances, where we now have 6.2 per cent of the work force unemployed- by the new year, the percentage will be considerably higher- we ought to increase the rate of immigration which, I believe, will therefore increase the rate of unemployment. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations suggested in its submission to its Minister: 
The direct effect of immigration for two decades (that is, excluding the inflows from Australian born children of migrants) was to contribute at least 40 per cent of the annual increase in the Australian labour force: Indeed in the 1950s the contribution would have been in excess of 50 per cent per year. 
Migration has historically, within the post-war period, contributed massively to the work force in this country. It is within that context that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  in April of this year, was arguing for increasing the levels of migration from their current net levels of around 50,000 odd to 1 10,000. The Minister was unable to persuade the Cabinet that there should be a White Paper on this matter. However, he was able to make a ministerial statement in this chamber in which he suggested that the target this year as part of a Biennium would be an intake of 90,000 a year or 70,000 net, because 20,000 people could be expected to emigrate permanently from Australia. 
The Minister further estimated at that time and as part of that statement what this would mean for the work force. He estimated that the gross worker intake in a single year would be 35,000 and the net intake that is, after allowing for workers leaving the country permanently, would be 27,000. I emphasise that figure- 27,000. If one takes that figure of 27,000 contained in the statement of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in June of this year, well after the parameters of the Budget had been set, and compares it with what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said in his statement of Thursday of last week, one finds a great difference. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations estimates that the work force will grow overall by 1 10,000 next year and that migration will contribute 20,000- not 27,000 or 35,000-to the work force. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs who, in April was advocating 1 10,000 immigrants a year and whose Department has an interest in the highest possible figures, is clearly in conflict with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations who has an interest in the lowest possible figures. He knows that if there is increased unemployment, he is the one who will have to bear the blame. 
I do not want to be emotional, but I think we have speak strongly on this issue. The credibility of this Government depends a great deal on the credibility of its projections. However, this Government is increasingly being shown to be the victim of its own propaganda. I refer the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to a paper recently released by  Dr Birrell  of Monash University, who has drawn attention to the way in which the Minister and his Department have manipulated figures to their own advantage. There is a particular example of this manipulation, but I will not go into that now. There was the suggestion in the Minister's statement earlier this year that the gross intake of migrants for 1977-78 could be only 77,000, less 7,000 leaving the country. Quite clearly the figures are very different from that. 
I wish very briefly to draw the attention of honourable members to one or two other facts which are relevant to the question of unemployment. I think firstly that we have to recognise that something like 18 per cent of those people who have recently arrived in this country are unemployed. I repeat: Eighteen per cent of recently arrived migrants are unemployed. Finally, I want to draw the attention of honourable members to a table which sets out the unemployment levels and settler arrivals by occupation. It tries to relate the whole question of people's occupations as against the unemployment which exists in this country. It shows that at this time of high unemployment we are bringing people such as teachers, nurses and typists to this country.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have shown this table to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and I now seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809216_69_2.jpg"></graphic>

-More and more emphasis has been placed recently on the credibility of statements made by Ministers of this Government. A clear example of this problem of credibility was evident in relation to the Stales Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill which recently has been through this House. I would like to quote some statements which have appeared in the local Press in my electorate to indicate some of the conflicts which exist between the Government's perception of the situation with respect to funding under this legislation and the way in which the changes under the legislation are perceived at the local level. The  Northcote Leader  of 1 9 September carries a story which has the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  suggesting that claims that changes in the subsidy arrangements under the States Grants (Home Care) Act had reduced Commonwealth funding for services to the aged could be discounted.  Senator Guilfoyle  is quoted as saying: 
This politically motivated attempt to denigrate the Commonwealth commitment to these vital services had no basis in fact . . . Following the increased allocation in the Budget for expenditure under the States Grants (Home Care) Act, all outstanding applications by State governments for new welfare officer positions and new home care services could be approved. 
Similarly the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  claimed in the 

 Heidelberger that rather than there being a reduction in funds 'additional funds had been made available for home care services'.  Mr Brown  went on to say that the only change in the home care service is that the Federal Government's contribution will be cut by half. However, the honourable member for Diamond Valley continued optimistically: 
The State Government now has funds from its own sources to support these activities more substantially. 
The reality is that the Victorian Government in its Budget has not allocated additional funds. So, the basis for funding has changed substantially. While it is clear that the Government in one sense will be spending more money this financial year, it is, in fact, back paying councils for staff that they took on over the past two years in anticipation of funding. It is spreading money more thinly across a wider number of councils. I could quote statements made by several people from the various local government authorities in my electorate. It is quite clear that from the point of view of local government the situation is seen very differently from the way it was presented by the Minister in the local Press in that electorate.  Mr Jones,  the City Manager of the City of Heidelberg, was quite specific. In the  Heidelberger  he said that his Council will 'have to find an extra $29,000 to keep the city's home help service afloat'. He said: 
I am very disappointed with the State Government. I was sure that it would have maintained the subsidy at $4 for every $ 1 offered by the Council. 

 Mr Jones went on to say that the State Government had had pressure put on it by the Federal Government pulling out of the scheme in the Budget. Similarly, the Preston councillors complained that the reduction of the subsidy was only part of a general program of reducing subsidies. Councillor Matthews was quoted in the Preston  Post  as saying: 
We may be forced to put up the rates. The Municipal Association of Victoria and all municipalities should form a united front. This is only a start. After the State Budget there could be more cuts. 
The Northcote Council's Director of Finance estimates that as a result of Federal cutbacks and the failure of the State Government to increase subsidies that Council stands to lose $ 13,500 annually. It also will need increased money to pay for the city's welfare worker. 
The feeling in my electorate among people with responsibility for providing local government services clearly is snared by many people in local government outside that electorate. More than 50 councils were represented recently at a  meeting in Collingwood which condemned cutbacks in the funding of the home care program. Councillor Hogg, the Mayor of Collingwood, accused the Federal Government of sleight of hand tactics in its policies. She said that the cutbacks would mean that councils would have to raise rates to maintain the quality of existing services and that the Federal Government was paying lip service to the needs of welfare while taking money away from it. We see reflected in this legislation the future of the new federalism. The new federalism clearly means that councils in my electorate will be asked to take on services and that funds will not be provided. It means that the Government on the one hand is devolving so-called power to councils and on the other hand is reducing their capacity to provide services. 
I ask the Treasurer: How many times will the handicapped people of Australia have to travel to Canberra before the Government announces that it will review the new taxes announced in the Budget on rehabilitation and sheltered workshop allowances? Will the Minister give the House an assurance that it will review these and all similar items in the Budget which have the effect of destroying people's incentive to work and improve their situation through their own efforts? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I refer him to an answer he gave on 10 April regarding QBE Insurance Ltd and the Foreign Investment Review Board. Is it a fact that QBE Insurance Ltd, through a subsidiary known as Equitable Life and General Insurance, was involved in a transaction with the British Friends Provident Group? Did this transaction go before the Foreign Investment Review Board? Did this transaction which was not referred to by the Treasurer in his answer on 10 April take place over the period January to October 1977 while the present Minister for Industry and Commerce was Treasurer? 
-The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community  -------..... 0 - j 
Development  (Mr Groom)  finds himself in a particularly invidious position. He is of course the Minister who, along with the previous Minister, has presided over the most savage cutbacks that have been made by the Government in relation to any department. He is a Minister who presides over a department the morale of which is at its absolutely lowest point; a Minister who recognises that successive previous Ministers have not been able, have not been prepared and have not been strong enough to go into Cabinet and maintain real spending in their particular area. 
The Minister defends and attempts to gloss over what are undeniably the most savage cutbacks that have occurred within the public housing sector at any time in the post-war period. This year the number of new homes constructed within the public housing sector will reach a point which is as low as it has been since 1950 when public housing contributed over 9,500 units. That was nearly 18 per cent of the units being constructed in that year. This year we are talking about construction at about the same level. Of course that will represent a much more minimal percentage of total housing within this country. The Minister can come into the House and attempt to fiddle the figures. Indeed, one of the specialties of this Government is to say one thing and to do another; to present a situation as if it were one thing when in reality that situation is totally different. 
We know what the reality is in relation to welfare housing. We can look at what the trend has been in successive Liberal Budgets. For example, one can go back to the last Hayden Budgetbefore the Liberal Government came into power. That was a moderate Budget, not an expansionary Budget. In that Budget $349m was provided for Advances to the States. In the Lynch Budget the figure went up marginally to $367m. Now in this Budget the figure is down to $290m. If one looks at those figures in real terms, one finds in terms of 1974-75 values that in the Hayden Budget of 1975-76, $307m was provided as Advances to the States, in the second Lynch Budget-1977-78-$265m was provided and in the Howard Budget $ 199m was provided. So the present Budget allocation for the States is down by 25 per cent on the allocation in the last Lynch Budget and is down 35 per cent on the allocation in the Hayden Budget. Those are the relevant figures. They indicate the reality. This Government, at a time of the highest unemployment in the post-war period, is prepared to sacrifice the people who live in public housing, as well as the low income earners who are dependent on that son of housing and who currently are unable to get housing of any reasonable standard in the private sector. We are cutting into the funds allocated for the housing of these people. They cannot get decent housing in the public sector. On the other hand we are cutting into an industry which is of enormous importance in relation to creating employment and which particularly employs a large number of semiskilled and unskilled people who themselves are low income earners. This is happening at a time of increased need rather than reduced need. 
At a time of recession I think it can be justifiably argued that in such a crucial area as housing spending ought to be expanded rather than reduced. This is not a matter of advocating profligate spending; it is simply a matter of indicating that we have in this situation a Minister who has not been strong enough, a Minister who has had to bear overwhelming cuts within his Department because he has not been able to stand up to the heat that has been generated. Indeed, at the very time that the pre-Cabinet discussions were taking place he had even to be persuaded to stay in Australia for them. This Minister is a weak Minister and the result is the situation which we have in welfare housing. We see these cutbacks occurring at a time when the need for emergency housing, for example, has never been more overwhelming. This is because the Minister is a weak Minister. He has not been able to protect his Department during a period of cuts and budgetary restraints. 
Let us take the issue of emergency housing. Let us refer to the situation in New South Wales. I want to quote from a report which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 18 September which quoted the State Chairman of the Shelter organisation of New South Wales in relation to the need for emergency housing within New South Wales. The report states:  . . . a recent survey taken by a Sydney tenants' organisation has shown that . . . 40,000 people- about one per cent of the population of NSW- are in need of emergency accommodation. 
The results of the survey, by the organisation called NSW Shelter, also shows that only 40 per cent of those needing emergency accommodation could be housed. . . .  Mr Greg  Thompson, said the attitudes of the . . . Liberal Parties in providing crisis accommodation was one of the major issues in the State election to be held on 7 October. 
He said that although the demand for this type of accommodation was relatively high, it was not receiving sufficient attention from governments. So we have the Shelter organisation in New South Wales talking about what is a vast and overwhelming need for emergency accommodation, 100,000 people around the country are on waiting lists and the Minister is attempting to defend what is a massive reduction in funds for welfare housing. He speaks about the recent Commonwealth-States housing finance agreement as representing some kind of progress in a sense that it will now be possible under the agreement to remove- from housing commission accommodation people who he says are well over and who I would say usually are marginally over the criteria that have traditionally been provided in relation to welfare housing. 
I think there is a case for saying that that kind of housing ought to be designed to reach the people who are most in need. We know that the people who are in real need, the people who belong to the 100,000 on waiting lists in the various States of Australia, are currently in tenanted accommodation. We know that a very high percentage of lower income tenants are in fact being driven into poverty because of their situation. We remember that this same Minister, this Minister who is not able to deal with strong people such as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  this Minister who is not able to stand up to the pressure and who cannot stand the heat when he goes into the kitchen, was going to do something in this area. He was going to produce a scheme- the housing allowance voucher experiment. He was going to produce through the scheme funds specifically designed to meet the needs of lower income earners. As late as 13 March he said: 
The housing allowance experiment is certainly proceeding. Any suggestion that we intend cancelling the experiment or deliberately delaying its commencement date is absolute nonsense. 
That is the Minister who within a few weeks was cancelling the experiment. One could also talk about home savings grants. I asked him a question about that matter. He is very keen on home ownership. What has this government done to home savings grants? It has cut them by $ 15m and we know that there is not a person who is not currently on the waiting list who will get one. That is the scheme that the Minister was telling us was such a great scheme. This Minister is a weak Minister. The sooner that he can be removed from the Ministry, the sooner the people in welfare and public housing will get a reasonable deal in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Drummond)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Quite a number of pensioners have spoken to me and a number of other members of the Opposition today. I think that they are getting the message about this Government. Whilst I appreciate a lot of what was said by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  I think that one has to recognise that a strain of dishonesty runs right through this Government. This is apparent when one begins to count and to run through all the promises which were made in 1975, no doubt in good faith, by people campaigning out in the electorates and which were repeated in 1977, again no doubt honestly believed by many of the honest campaigners for the Government. Nevertheless, this Government is marked by duplicity and by treachery in terms of the interests of lower income people. I think that what the honourable member for Franklin said underlined that. It is a view shared not simply by honourable members on this side of the chamber. Honourable members on both sides of the chamber are coming to recognise that the Government is guilty of a great deal of dishonesty. 
The discussion of the estimates for government departments provides an opportunity to review the performance of this Government in contrast with its promises. It provides an opportunity also to review the underlying philosophical issues which are involved in this Government's approach to social security. I want to focus my attention on the Department of Social Security. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  when he was Minister for Social Security, denned Labor's aims and commitments as follows:   . . to the creation of a society which offers equality of opportunity, security and assistance to those who suffer from special disabilities ... we want to create a system of welfare services and benefits which is not class tainted and whose provisions are not stigmatised as charitable concessions to the deserving poor. 
I must confess to some difficulties in understanding what the basic aims and goals of the present Government are in the fields of social welfare, health, and related areas. Whilst the rhetoric of the Government sometimes on the surface seems to indicate that its aims are similar to ours, it is clear that the commitment of this Government is to unequalising opportunity, protecting privilege, maximising insecurity and making and reinforcing the historic distinction between the deserving and the undeserving poor. The record of this Government during a period of nowprolonged recession portrays an incredible insensitivity to the social consequences of Government economic decisions and has been marked by the beginning of the process of running down welfare services, which honourable members will remember was the characteristic trait of the Menzies years, of the 23 years of Liberal rule which preceded the Whitlam Government. 
It cannot be stressed often enough in this chamber that in 1972 Australia was one of the poorest served countries in the developed world in terms of access to health, education and welfare services. According to a publication of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development entitled  Public Expenditure Trends,  published in June this year, in the early 1960s Australia was spending 9.6 per cent of its gross domestic product on public welfare, compared with the average for OECD countries of 13.2 per cent. At that time no other countries, with the exception of Greece and Japan, were spending less on public welfare, which included health, education and social security expenditures. In the early 1970s, despite the so-called 'extravagance' of the Labor Government, Australia was spending only 12.8 per cent of its GDP on public welfare expenditures, compared with an OECD average expenditure of 18.8 per cent. Australia continued to be ranked with Japan and Greece at the bottom of the OECD table. Nothing that this Government has done since it came to office is likely to affect this general ranking. 
Australians like to be fed the illusion, the myth, that we are a generous society, an egalitarian society, a society in which class does not exist in any significant sense and in which income differentials are minimal. Perhaps it is time that we began to include figures on income distribution in the Budget Papers. For instance, in 1973-74 the bottom 10 per cent of families received only 2.8 per cent of total income, whereas the top 10 per cent received 25.47 per cent of total income. Furthermore, whilst the top 30 per cent received 54.93 per cent of total income, the bottom 70 per cent received only 47.07 per cent of total income. If one looked at a range of social indicators one would see, as was indicated in a study by Lundberg, when he was the Parliamentary Research Fellow, that Australia figures very low in comparison with other developed countries. The reasons for this no doubt are many and varied, but I think it is true that in this society we suffer terribly through ignorance. 
Whilst the Labor Government was criticised for the large number of inquiries it set in train, the fact is that in Australia we do not have the continuing program of research and evaluation of public issues and policies which has been a characteristic of so many other developed societies. While the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has carried out important studies in the field of poverty and social deprivation, the Institute is almost unique in Australia which has had a paucity of centres for applied social research. Furthermore, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out, since the present Government came to power a substantial and even frightening, one would say, reduction has occurred in the amount of statistical tabulation and analysis done, for example, by the Bureau of Statistics. It is known that staff morale in the Bureau is at an extremely low ebb because staff are aware that the effects of government policy are such as to reduce the effectiveness of the Bureau as an information source on a wide range of issues including questions related to household expenditure and income and the distribution of income in Australian society. 
It is quite clear that the Budget Papers represent sophisticated nonsense if they do not include reference to indicators of social well-being as well as economic indicators. Indeed the economic indicators are obscure enough and are almost specifically designed to confuse the reader rather than assist in the clarification of the issues. It is clear that if we started to measure our society against some objective indicators we would find that rather than being one of the more egalitarian societies we would be the reverse. Rather than being a society without poverty we have some of the most severe poverty of any country in the developed world. The situation of our Aboriginal population is worse, perhaps, than that of any minority in any country in the developing world. Politicians must take some responsibility, as the honourable member for Franklin recognised, for fostering these illusions. The political system seems to be designed to assist to insulate society from facing the reality of its own condition. 
What genuinely poor person would ever recognise the reality of his situation in the Budget Papers or in the estimates for the Department of Social Security? Such documents represent a finely tuned distortion of reality, a jargonish and barely readable summary of what governments imagine they have done or are planning to do. 
Governments rarely attempt in any real sense to explain or express what is happening out in the world. Recently we have heard from the Government some comments about the extent of unemployment and the grim prospects for its solution. It seems that the unemployed are no longer responsible for their own situation. It is now due to the international trade cycle and the external forces. 
Let us look at the reality of the Government's treatment of the unemployed as represented in the estimates and in the Budget. It is likely that about 520,000 persons will be unemployed by January 1979. The number of unemployed without dependants, which amounts to 75 per cent of those receiving unemployment benefit, will receive no increase in their benefit which will be left at $51.45 per week. The benefits for those under 18 years will remain at $36 per week. The rate has not changed since 1975. Unemployed youths of 15 years of age will receive no benefit at all. Unemployed people with dependants will have their benefits increased but only once yearly instead of six-monthly as previously. In addition, the allowance for dependants has not increased since November 1975. According to the Australian Council of Social Service the result for all recipients of the unemployment benefit is that the value of the benefit will slip further and further below the poverty line. I ask permission to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table indicating that fact. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_58_6.jpg"></graphic>

The Government promised in December 1975 'that it would be generous to those who can not get a job and want to work. ' However, the Government is moving more and more towards a vendetta against the unemployed at the very time that it is recognised that unemployment is not caused by people's attitudes and values but by structural factors and an international recession. In this context the Director-General of Social Services wants to introduce marked envelopes to ensure that the unemployed either keep in one spot or are knocked off the rolls. The Government is spending through a Social Security secret service nearly $7m to weed out the 'bludgers'. More likely the Social Security SS is there to endeavour to keep the spending on the meagre unemployment benefit below $ 100m extra. What about the kind of resources that are used to chase tax avoiders? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This afternoon the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  was questioning a proposition which I put to the House earlier about the extent of inequalities within Australian society and the extent to which Australian society might be described as inegalitarian. I want to refer particularly the honourable member for Dundas, and in the process the House, to what I regard as an excellent and informative letter which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 27 September. It deals with the question of inequalities, particularly as they relate to immigration. If I wanted to argue that the Australian society was an egalitarian society, one of the basic propositions I would want to put and one of the areas upon which I would want to focus would be the history of migration in the post-war period. I think it is true to say that we have through migration brought to and established in this country an immigrant working class. If one is to speak about inequalities in the Australian society, the Australian immigration policy is one area where one should look to find that we are not as egalitarian as we would like to think we are. This proposition in a real sense transcends the views of political parties. I refer to the letter by  Mr M.  S. Kim and to the six point he makes in it. First of all, he points out that of the 2,231,921 new settlers who arrived during the period 1959 to 1977, 59 per cent were provided with assisted passages. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which appears in the letter which gives details of these assisted passages. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

An examination of the table shows that less than two per cent of Asian settlers and less than 33 per cent of Greek and Italian migrants were assisted while more than 80 per cent of northern or western Europeans coming to this country were assisted. The letter goes on to state: 
Under the fourth category of the new immigration policy announced on May 7 by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, citizens of New Zealand, and Commonwealth and Irish citizens resident in New Zealand, are generally exempt from the requirement to seek prior authority to enter Australia while citizens from other countries have to go through lengthy procedures. 
So, in that sense the procedures are nondiscriminatory. The letter continues: 
33 migration officers are working in the UK to promote migration while one officer is covering the whole continent of Black Africa even if there are three officers posted in South Africa. 
Some 26,000 elderly new Australians from countries other than Britain or New Zealand are excluded from receiving an age pension on residence grounds, but this exclusion has no effect on 15,500 elderly migrants from the two countries. 
Britons and New Zealanders can draw Australian pensions within 14 days after their arrival in Australia while other new Australians must wait at least 10 years before they are eligible for age pension. 
Elderly new Australians from non-British countries are rarely paid special benefit although they suffer from financial difficulty. Of 10,500, only about 1,000 receive special benefit because they are under a maintenance guarantee. The Galbally Report clearly points out that 'In practice ... it is only migrants from countries other than Britain and New Zealand who are eligible for Australian pensions . . . ' 
Those six points are all important points. They all reflect that race and a sense of class is demonstrable within Australia, especially in relation to our immigration policies. This is particularly noticeable to someone who works in an electorate in which there is a heavy concentration of migrants, particularly southern Europeans and more recently Latin Americans, and sees how they are treated in terms of our social security policy in comparison with Anglo-Saxon migrants. I believe that this element of racism which exists within Australian society can be aligned with class which remains one of the fundamental characteristics of Australian society and has been far too little emphasised in the national Parliament. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
I think that most members would agree that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  are both people of remarkable intelligence. It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Denison tonight chose to waste the time of the House by devoting himself as he did in the great bulk of his speech to trivia instead of devoting himself to sustained criticism of a Budget against which I am sure he has more profound objections than were reflected in his speech. This Social Services Amendment Bill represents an important stage in the development of this Government's policies. It marks the point where the failure of the Government's overall economic strategy begins seriously to affect the Government's capacity to maintain effective programs on social services and social security. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who began her Ministry back in December 1975 with considerable optimism concerning the Government's policies, is now the victim of the prolonged economic recession which those policies have produced. In December 1975 the Minister for Social Security spoke of the fact that Australia could not be a prosperous nation with so many people out of work. However, she claimed that the resources of her Department would be directed towards solving this massive problem. She said: 
The opening up of wider and unexplored employment areas will certainly ease pan of the problem . . . 
The reality has been that rather than this Government opening up wider and unexplored areas for employing more people, it has been at least partially responsible for narrowing those opportunities and plunging the country more into recession. Unfortunately for the Department of Social Security the effect of this prolonged recession has been to increase enormously the responsibilities of the Department while the Government constantly seeks to restrain public expenditure across the board. 
It is just nonsense for members on the Government side to claim that the increases in this year's Budget represent any improvement in the real situation of social service beneficiaries. The Government must spend more because many more people are receiving social service benefits and many more people will continue to receive social service benefits as long as this Government pursues its present economic course. It is for this reason that the Government has introduced into this Bill a number of changes which in no sense can be described as reforms. They have to be recognised as representing a rather desperate attempt on its part to restrain spending in the social security area for no rational reason other than its desire to save revenue in oblique ways which have the less dramatic political impact. Of course, many of these changes represent the reverse of what the Government had promised in previous election speeches. Thus the Minister is drawn more deeply into the web of dishonesty and deception which is the hallmark of this Government. 
One can run through the series of measures which are part and parcel of the Social Services Amendment Bill. Perhaps I could refresh the minds of honourable members by recalling those measures to which speakers on this side of the House and most of the speakers, if not all of the speakers, on the other side of the House have drawn attention. The Government had promised repeatedly that pensions and benefits would be indexed oh a biannual basis. However, clause 6 of this legislation ensures that this year's increase in pensions and benefits will be the last increase until November 1979, thus effectively eroding the real value of the pensions and benefits which are being paid. Biannual indexation was being held up by the Government and the Minister for Social Security as evidence of the Government's concern and, indeed, as proof of the Government's credibility. On 28 September the Minister was asked in the other place whether there was some suggestion that the Government would change its policy on biannual indexation if the rate of inflation fell. In answer to that question the Minister said: 
The policy itself and the introduction of that policy into legislation made no qualification. 
Therefore no argument is produced to answer the suggestion. We cannot accuse the Government and the Minister of lying because to do so would be unparliamentary. But the reality nevertheless is that this is a Government which repeatedly says something in terms of its policy if there is a vote in it but when it comes to the crunch it does not deliver. 
It is undoubtedly true that the failure of indexation will drive a larger number of people, particularly people in receipt of the unemployment benefit, into poverty. This has been established by a table which I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

The table emphasises the desperate situation of the family where the usual income earner is unemployed. It underlines the similar plight of the single parent with child. In the first case, the unemployed household with two dependent children will by November 1979 have fallen $20 below the poverty line. In the case of the single parent with child the gap will have reached $25. Quite clearly the elimination of biannual indexation does not explain those figures alone but it does contribute to what is a desperate situation. 
I believe that the principal point that should be emphasised is that people dependent on pensions are highly dependent on the marginal dollar income and what may appear on the surface to be minor if not rational cost saving devices can have a major impact on the situation of people living on or around the poverty line. This is, of course, especially the case where people are solely dependent on pension and benefit income. We must place that change within the context of some other relevant facts. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  referred to the fact that the allowance for dependent children of pensioners is not indexed and remains at $7.50 a week. It would have been $9.70 a week if indexation had been continued. Family allowances which have been introduced on a nonmeans tested basis are not being indexed. Thus the real value declines from year to year. The permissible earnings for pensioners remains at a fixed figure which means that pensioners who are able to attract additional income lose their pension once that income rises to $20 a week for single pensioner and $34 a week for married pensioners. 
One can go on and refer to a number of other measures that are included in the Bill. It provides for the introduction of an income test on further pension increases for people who are 70 years of age and over which suggests that the Government is reneging on its repeated promise to eliminate the means test on old age pensions. One must underline again that whatever might be the rationality of this policy it is not what the Government went to an election on. To renege on that promise within a matter of months of an election represents dishonesty and treachery on the part of the Government when we relate the situation to that section of the population. One can go on to refer to the elimination of family allowances for students under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme. One can talk about the removal of maternity allowances. That is certainly not the sort of thing one would have wanted to mention last year. One could talk about the shift from the weekly payment of benefits to the monthly payment of benefits. This represents a saving to the Government in this year of perhaps $30m which could have made a difference to many people 's family income. 
Finally, and most significantly, we have in this legislation extremely shabby treatment of the unemployed. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  has earned a reputation for fighting vigorously to protect the interests of her Department. However, despite frequent expressions of concern, she does not have a very impressive record of fighting to protect the interests of the unemployed. We have to be reminded of the early days of her ministry. Honourable members will remember that the Minister was going to root out the cheats, the chisellers and the bludgers. So we had the tightening up of the work test guidelines, the introduction of identity checks, and the limitation of people's classifications so that people who were skilled workers had to be prepared to take unskilled work. We had the shifts in policy so that the unemployment benefit could not be paid to school leavers and we had the example of the Karen Green case. 
In this Budget we can afford another $7m for Department of Social Security staff to try to cut down the rolls by what they estimate to be something like 1 7,000 people at a reported saving of $50m. This is related to an attempt to force people who are genuinely unemployed out of a situation in which they regard themselves in a real sense as part of the work force. We know that hundreds of thousands of Australians are currently not registered for employment but, nevertheless, they are interested in being part of the work force. This Government is frightening people out of the work force. It is creating an atmosphere in which people who have rights are being denied those rights. The reality is that despite those measures in this financial year we will see in excess of $900m spent on unemployment benefits notwithstanding that thousands of people will be denied their right to receive proper unemployment benefits. 
This will be the case when unemployment benefits are paid at rates which for many people will mean living well below the poverty line. Not only are people being dissuaded from receiving their right, that is unemployment benefits, but also at the same time those benefits are being paid at an abysmal and shamefully low level. Single people are receiving $36 a week. That figure has not changed since 1975. We know what that means. It means that not only can people not afford to live independently but also when they go back into their family situation they are then dependent upon their families. It is costing more money for families who are very often- indeed in the majority of cases- lower and middle income families. They are being asked to carry a burden for which the Government ought to take responsibility. We see also that the benefits paid to people will be indexed annually rather than biannually. This means that November 1979 will be the first occasion on which they will receive an increase after the increase which is provided in this Budget. 
One could go on to look at the treatment of the unemployed by the Government in its social security policy. The pretensions of the Government, like those of the honourable member for Denison, have been very great. The Government has stated consistently that whatever it might do for the average man it will really look after the person who is in trouble. I resist the suggestion from any honourable member on the other side of the House that the unemployed in the overwhelming majority are in any sense bludgers or second-class citizens. In a real sense, the unemployed are the scapegoats. They are being made scapegoats by this Government for a system which is breaking down in a fundamental way. They reflect the irrationality of late monopoly capitalism, which does not place a value on people and which benefits from the existence of the reserve army of unemployed supported minimally not out of profits but predominantly out of income tax. As the Minister for Social Security has repeatedly pointed out, 60 per cent of all personal income tax goes into pensions and benefits. 
That is the crux of the problem. We are increasingly building a society in which an increasingly less equitable tax system is being asked to bear a larger and larger burden which flows down from failures of the economic system. We have a government in power which is on about providing an increasing income tax while transferring larger and larger subsidies to large scale and monopoly capital. This is a government which will move inexorably towards limiting eligibility for benefits such as unemployment benefits because its focus will not be on people and their need but will be more and more on large scale capital. 
This is why the alternative Budget proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  makes so much sense. It represented a strategy designed to protect the interests of working people by using the tax system to make real transfers of wealth to the lower income groups via a resources tax and capital gains taxes, the development of universal systems of health and social security, and the opening up of meaningful work opportunities for the unemployed. It is extraordinary that a Minister who began her career in the Ministry speaking about the need to fine down bureaucracy has moved to add further and further to that bureaucracy by adding thousands of additional employees and increasing the emphasis on surveillance powers while, doing little to make any contribution towards solving the fundamental problems which are giving rise to an ever-increasing social welfare bill. 
This Government's economic failures are producing an enormous social cost. That cost will grow and grow. We are producing a generation of bitter Australians who are being maintained on the perimeter of society as non-participants and as spectators. They must increasingly come to question this society and the current social system. I guess that in this there is room for optimism because we need to be thinking more radically about our society and the problems that confront it. It is simply not good enough to be encouraging millions of Australians to accept a second-class standard of living while the lucky, the tough or the powerful enjoy the security of their ruling class situation. 
This Parliament is increasingly taking on the appearance of unreality as it lurches on from Budget to Budget without encouraging any real debate about the need for any fundamental changes. We are increasingly as a Parliament unrepresentative and therefore unable to sympathise with the situation of a larger and larger number of Australians. It is as if we had no empathy for the insecurity that is felt by people about the possibility of being entirely dependent on minimal benefits which are rarely established as a right. We have no sense of the sheer marginality of existence in the working class electorates of Australia where there is now virtually no freedom of choice. 
We have little or no capacity to experiment with change and our sense of what represents a high standard of community facilities is abysmally low. We constantly allow ourselves the luxury of extraordinarily high standard facilites for the few whilst permitting and even encouraging the poorest quality services for the less powerful- and in education we have a classic example of that. We have a limited commitment to equality of opportunity but no sense of the fact that people cannot equally grasp opportunities. We rely in an unthinking way on the so-called private sector, despite ever-abundant evidence of its injustice, irrationality, and the lack of any effective control by workers or consumers over investment decisions. The poor, the unskilled and the working people of this country almost never influence important priority decisions, and in a real sense we no longer have any feeling for what their priorities may be. 
We are the victims of myth and rumour and each day social divisions grow rather than diminish. This Parliament is an isolated, classbound institution and this Bill simply reflects that fact. We need a new approach to social security. We need simplified legislation. We need more established rights and less arbitrary discretion being practised by Directors-General or other members of the Department of Social Security. We need more independent and more representative tribunals. We need to be aiming for the reduction of inequality and not the mere elimination of poverty. We need to decentralise and make Government bureaucracy more responsible. The Government spoke about that, but what happened to the Bailey report? We need to remove all sense of distinction between the deserving and the undeserving poor. Perhaps more than anything else, what this legislation is about is the re-enforcement of that particular distinction, which belongs in the nineteenth century, where the Tory Party opposite belongs as well. 
We need to give all Australians access to adequate welfare services, on the assumption that they contribute to people's real income. We need to recognise that social security will continue to absorb a very high proportion of the Commonwealth Budget, but ensure that it is not paid for by working people in the main; that it is genuinely redistributive. It is this last proposition that people are coming to doubt. There may well be a tax revolt in this country. What that may be about is the inequality of the current taxation system. Let us not talk simplistically about simply reducing taxes for everyone, and at the same time ensure that the greatest benefit goes to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his class. Let us have a real look at the equity in the taxation system and see which of the parties can win an election on that issue. I have no doubt which party it will be. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) With reference to section 76a of the National Health Act, when does he anticipate tabling the report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations. 
Does he recognise the difficulties involved in his calling for stimulating public debate on health costs when the most recently published information on the operations of the health insurance funds is now almost 2 years out of date, and in which time dramatic changes have been made to the health insurance arrangements. 
Is the delay in tabling the report due to failure by some health insurance funds to provide the Department with the basic information concerning their operations. 
Which funds in each State failed to submit the prescribed financial statements to the Permanent Head of his Department within 3 months of the expiration of 1976-77, and how many funds have been prosecuted under subsection 76 ( 1 ) of the Act. 
Will he specify the information that he currently requires from the funds under sub-section 74c ( 1 ) of the Act. 
Will he name those organisations which have failed to provide complete returns to him pursuant to directions issued under sub-section 74c (2) of the Act within 3 months of receiving those directions. 
What action does he propose to take in relation to health insurance funds which do not comply with directions issued by him under section 74c of the Act. 
This answer replaces the answer previously supplied to the honourable member on 8 June  (Hansard,  page 3400). 
-The explanation given by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  does not really sit too well within the Committee. What we have been talking about and what we have been trying to suggest is that the people in the electorate of Batman, a large number of whom have low incomes, a considerable number of whom are social service beneficiaries and many of whom are migrants with families that are divided between Australia and countries thousands of miles away, are not now to receive, under the terms of this Budget, the treatment which was promised by this Government prior to the election. These people should know with some certainty that when a Party goes to an election- an election which it has brought on itself- with firm policies and gives firm assurances on what it plans as a government, assurances such as it gave to  Mrs Wilson  of the Preston Combined Pensioners Association when it told her that she and the members of that Association could expect to have their pensions indexed twice yearly and that there would not be a means test introduced for people over the age of 70 - 
-I am addressing - 
I am discussing clause 8. 
Clause 8, as I understand it and as I understood the Minister's explanation, relates to the requirement for people to supply income statements. This relates to social service beneficiaries such as those to whom I have been referring. The point that I have been endeavouring to make is that people in the electorate of Batman who will be required to supply that information in accordance with the provisions laid down are having a condition placed on them in a context different from that which they had expected, given the promises of the Government in the previous election campaign. It seems to me that in this clause the Government is saying that people receiving a certain benefit will be required to supply certain information. When the Government enters into a contract with people, such as I think is indicated in this clause, then the people ought to be able to expect that that contract should be within the framework of the Government's election promises. The Government should stick to its promises. When one reflects upon this piece of legislation one has to say, as one has to say in relation to so many of its clauses- this is as applicable to this clause as to any other clause- that the Government is guilty of a kind of treachery. 
We have a farcical situation. We on the Opposition side know that this is unpopular legislation. We know that Government members are divided on it. It is being forced through this place in this way in order to prevent the people affected by it being aware of and hearing the debate and being able to see the divisions which have appeared, such as we saw when the attempt was made to guillotine this legislation through the chamber. Clause 8 is important insofar as it at least points to the fact that the Government is now requiring of the people something which is radically different from that which they could have expected in view of what was said in the election campaign just a few months ago. 
-I draw to the attention of the Committee a statement issued by the Australian Council of Social Service which relates particularly to the clause before the Committee. Sometimes people on this side of the chamber are presented as being raving radicals who, when they argue for the rights of the unemployed, for example, are somehow taking a position which cannot be defended on rational grounds, a position which is not supported by groups which have status and standing and which represent all the welfare interests in Australia, certainly in the voluntary sector and partially in the government sector. We are talking about the Government's treatment of the unemployed, and it is not good enough for the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  simply to reflect on what we may or may not have done three or four years ago. The Government's treatment of the unemployed is seen by responsible people within the community, by responsible leaders of the community, to be quite scandalous. I want to quote at some length from a statement issued, after the introduction of the Budget, by the Australian Council of Social Service, a body which represents welfare organisations throughout Australia. It summarises the changes that the honourable member for Port 
Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has just described, but it goes on to say: 
The result for all unemployment beneficiaries therefore is that the value of the benefits will slip further and further below the poverty line- 
They will not just slip further back, but will slip further and further below the poverty line-  a level of income necessary for the basic requirements of food and shelter . . . 
We are not talking about luxuries; we are talking about the basic requirements of food and shelter. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  may smile, but I think members of this Committee ought to be concerned when a section of the community has to struggle for those basic necessities. The statement continues: 
The plight of the young adults leaving home in search of work is particularly severe. Reports of homelessness, prostitution, drugs and crime have been increasing. Few unemployed have savings to fall back onto and with the average period of unemployment being 19 weeks malnutrition and a deterioration of health may result. 
It is not simply a matter of people not having access to restaurants, nights on the town or gay parties in the Speaker's office; it is a matter of people suffering from malnutrition. The statement goes on: 
It is important to realise also that many unemployed in need will not receive unemployment benefits because of the stringent income test imposed. They together with their spouse may only earn a total of $6 p.w. after which the unemployment benefit is reduced $ for $. Clearly this explains why married unemployed people form only 25 per cent of those receiving unemployment benefits. 
All beneficiaries will fall further and further below the poverty line. 
ACOSS attached to that statement a table which points out that by November 1979 a single person living away from home will be $34 below the poverty line. I am not talking about a bit of a gap, I am talking about $34. A single person over 18 years of age will be $18.55 below the poverty line developed by Professor Henderson's institute on the most stringent criteria, which really dealt with bare subsistence. A single person will be $ 18.55 below the line established by that most stringent test, and that is quite scandalous. Under the benefits provided a couple with two children will be $19.30 below the poverty Une. Those figures have not been produced by the Australian Council of Social Service. They have not been produced by Maoists; they have not been produced by radical groups of any persuasion. They have been produced by one of the most responsible bodies in this country. Having looked at this Budget, it has made its responsible assessment. I believe that people on this side of the chamber have a right to be angry, along with the Australian Council of Social Service, about the treatment of the unemployed. From my experience in my own electorate I know that hundreds of young people and hundreds of older people are living what can be described only as extremely miserable lives. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has pointed out that, taken in total, there are many more older people than young people in this situation. They are living in that way through no fault of their own. 
I know that at various times people on both sides of the Parliament have sought to stigmatise the unemployed by the term that was used earner in the discussion. The problem we have in terms of the perception of the unemployed is perhaps not so much our perception of them but the perception by the unemployed of themselves. It is not so much that they take a great deal of notice of the odd parliamentarian who stigmatises them through the use of some sort of term but that there is a sense in which they have absorbed within this culture the double standards we have about social service beneficiaries. I think that that is what the honourable member for Bonython was trying to emphasise. We have retained within our system a dual standard, and I recognise that on this side of the Parliament we have to take some responsibility for that. We have one standard for the deserving poor and another standard for people who can be described only as the 'undeserving poor'. That is what we as a society are doing at the moment to a whole generation of young people and to many thousands of people who have skills and abilities and want to contribute them to their country. 
This year we are to spend more than $900m on benefits which are far too low because a government that came to power saying that it had the solution has not found that solution.  Senator Guilfoyle  was one of the people who believed that the Government of which she was a part had the solution. We all know that the Government has not found the solution. The back bench of the Liberal Party knows that. We know that the Government has not resolved the economic problems which it saw so simply, so simplistically, in 1975. We have been confronted in the Committee today with the aspect of the Budget which deals with the casualties of the Government's failure, and we find that on this very point the Government is being insensitive. That is why there are only three members of the Government parties in the chamber at the present time. They cannot face up to the fact that the Government in this piece of legislation is singling out sections of the community - 
I am sorry, I correct myself. There are five members of the Government parties present. They cannot face the fact that the Government is being malicious towards those people whose situation at the moment most demands concern. The Austraiian Council of Social Service has drawn attention to the need for that concern. Many concerned people, presumably people employed by the Department of Social Security, are working with unemployed people across Australia. However, one is very concerned when one sees placed alongside that situation an allocation of more than $6m for the employment of additional people to police the unemployed, to try to reduce the numbers of the unemployed by frightening people into a situation where they are not prepared to register for work. This fear tactic, this intimidation of the unemployed, will produce a bitter generation, and whichever government is in power in five years time will have to bear the consequences of the insensitivity and callousness of the present Government. 
It is not enough for the honourable member for Murray or for any other honourable member on the Government side to come back and say: Well, what happened three or four years ago when you were in office?' The reality is that the Liberal-National Country Party coalition is in Government and it will be remembered for what it has not done in this Budget. It will also be remembered for what it has done. There is nothing positive to be said in a situation such as this which is so negative for hundreds of thousands of spurned Australians. 
I will not take up very much time but I want to refer very briefly to a question which has already been raised but which I think needs to be re-emphasised. It relates to the second situation, that is, medical expenses related to services rendered to a disadvantaged person who has entered into a direct billing agreement with his doctor. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  in his second reading speech, talked about some of the difficulties that he saw involved in that concept. He said: 
On balance I have decided not to specify such guidelines in the legislation. On balance I consider that the relationship between a patient and his practitioner is unique- indeed, quite personal. The term 'disadvantaged person' is difficult to define in legal terms, but the specification in the legislation . . . could introduce rigid procedures . . . 
I think this matter is extremely important. I think that the legislation clearly is creating a situation which will not be able to last. People say that it would be fine to reach a stable system, and I think in many respects that the concepts underlying the present legislation are much sounder than the concepts that had been originally introduced by the Government. But this proposal reflects some fuzzy thinking. It reflects thinking that just does not grapple with the problems which are involved in the doctor-patient relationship. When one thinks back to the Sax report on health costs one ought to remember that irrespective of what may have appeared in the recommendations the thesis of that report was that if one wanted to do something about health costs then one had to do something about charges by doctors. Repeatedly throughout that report the authors suggested that the fundamental problem in restraining health costs was not the patient but the doctor. I think that on a fair reading of that report one would have to accept that proposition as being central. The present situation is that those persons whom the Minister for Health suggested earlier were 'socially disadvantaged persons' are now described simply as 'disadvantaged persons'. The Minister is quite unable to define what he means, and being unable to define what he means he gives way to the relevant pressure. The relevant pressure about this aspect of the legislation clearly is from the doctor. Because the Minister has not made any attempt, no matter how rough, to define these people the doctor will be in a position in which he will do the defining. A pamphlet distributed under the name of the Commonwealth Department of Health explains the scheme. In paragraph 1 on advice for the disadvantaged it says: 
If you wish to, talk to your doctor on your next visit about your personal circumstances. If the doctor thinks it is appropriate, and provided you do not have medical insurance, he can bulk-bill your account and you will not have to pay any money to him out of your own pocket. 
The first sentence reads: 
If you wish to, talk to your doctor on your next visit about your personal circumstances. 
How demeaning! How paternalistic! How wrong is it that a doctor upon whom a person is dependent for health care should have the right to know someone's personal and financial circumstances! I cannot think of any grounds whatsoever which would justify this proposal. It will, as had been suggested earlier in the debate, lead to the most arbitrary decisions and almost inevitably it will mean that people who on all objective criteria might be described as socially disadvantaged will be the last to take advantage of this modification of the system which has resulted from pressure on the Government to reintroduce bulk billing. I think that it is most regrettable that something as sloppy as this, something as open to misuse as this and something which can lead to paternalism on the part of the medical profession should ever have been included in a scheme which honourable members have said ought to be the basis for a permanent scheme. I really want to emphasise that point. 
In conclusion, I think that the sociology of the situation was amply demonstrated yesterday during Question Time when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was asked a question by an honourable member on this side of the House about a possible parallel between him revealing his financial circumstances to the public and the situation in which no doubt within the sanctity of a doctor's surgery  Mr Average  has to reveal his financial circumstances. Clearly the Prime Minister could not understand the problem because he assumed in a rather quaint way that the relationship between doctors and patients is as it may be in the small country towns of the Western Districts; but 85 per cent of Australians, the overwhelming majority of Australians, live in large cities, where they simply do not form social relationships with their doctors. Where there is a concentration of working people, people who may well qualify as socially disadvantaged, the distance between these people and the medical profession very often is as great as the distance between the most menial person and the Prime Minister. The distance is extraordinarily great. There is no sense of affinity and there is no relationship which constitutes a basis on which such a decision could be made by a doctor with any degree of rationality. I think it is extraordinarily unfortunate and extremely demeaning that people should have to reveal information of this type to a medical practitioner, who very often is drawn from a quite different social group and does not have a personal relationship with the patient. It is extraordinarily sloppy of the Government to bring in legislation of this type which in such a crucial area fails to deal with the sociological realities involved. 
-. . . has taken place without - 
I refer to a leading story in the Melbourne  Age  of 5 October which was headed: 'Protest Over Public Service 
Cuts' and which concerned the impact on the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development of staff cuts which have been brought about as a result of this year's Budget. The article refers to the permanent head of the Department,  Mr Lansdown,  as saying in a letter to the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board that his Department was 'a dying institution with morale at rock bottom because of staff cuts'. The article went on to report that  Mr Lansdown  noted in his letter that the staff of the Department had fallen from more than 1,000 in early 1976 to a proposed 500 by next June and that of the 14 most senior Second Division officers in the Department in early 1976 only four now remain.  Mr Lansdown  pointed out that the Department had been through three major reorganisations since January 1 976 during which many of the staff had been sustained by the hope that things could not get worse. However, they had got worse and staff now expected them to worsen further. 
Whilst the article draws attention to the plight of the staff of a department which has been the victim of a radical change of priorities, this is not my principal concern in raising this matter tonight. Staff of government departments must be expected to suffer change as a result of changes in government priorities. The head of the Department and the staff have accepted these changes until this point without any evidence of public protest. However, one has to be concerned about the implications of the dismantling of this Department to the public of Australia, which depends a great deal for its quality of life on the kind of services which have been the responsibility of this Department. It is clear that the Government has taken no account- I repeat 'no account'- of these services and of their relative importance in taking the decisions it has about staff ceilings. It is quite clear from the evidence that I have been able to gather that the Department was simply issued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  with a succession of orders to reduce staff. It was made clear that there were to be no negotiations or discussions. 
It is also quite clear that the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has tried with commendable concern to rationalise its staff, through a period of savage cuts, in such a way as would allow it to maintain intact those functions which it has been given to perform. However, this whole process of rationalisation appears to have taken place behind closed doors with virtually no opportunity being given to the public or the Parliament to scrutinise the real impact of the progressive emasculation. 
What appears to be quite clear is that this Department cannot in any real sense perform the charter which was given to the Department of Urban and Regional Development by the Labor Government or even to continue to carry out efficiently the revised goals and tasks which were established when the late  Senator Greenwood  was Minister. It is clearly a misnomer to describe the Department as the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development because the environmental and community development responsibilities of the Department, while remaining on paper, cannot possibly be performed on the scale and at the depth originally envisaged. 
There is not the time, within the context of a brief adjournment debate, to canvass these issues in great depth. However, I believe that it is incumbent upon the Minister and the Government to inform the Parliament clearly of what functions the Department is capable of performing with its present level of staff, which functions which were performed by the Department of Regional and Urban Development have been discontinued and what the Department has been able to do under successive Ministers, and particularly under the present Minister. I raise these matters not because I think that they have in the short run any dramatic electoral appeal, but because I believe that the vital functions which this Department has performed should continue to be performed. I cannot see, in the rationalisation that has taken place, any real attempt to accept the cuts that have been imposed in a way which will ensure that the most important of the functions to be performed by the Department are, in fact, performed. Finally I refer to a second article. It is from the  Canberra Times  and in it Bruce Juddery wrote: 
The urban fringes of the major cities, they believe, will always be a political battlefield. Whatever party is in government will have seats there to lose; whichever is in Opposition will have seats there to win. 
The Werriwa by-election, they believe, must intensify pressures on the Federal Government to be seen to be doing something- anything- to alleviate the problems of such areas. 
There is no reason to suspect that the people of Werriwa, or of adjoining Mitchell, for that matter, containing the depressed Blacktown area and held by the Liberal,  Mr Alan  Cadman, are going to accept assurances that urban problems (under the New Federalism) are the responsibility of State and local governments- 
I believe that the dismantling of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development - 
-The area of urban public transport can be added to the long list of broken promises that characterise this Budget, the first since the election which the Government won last December. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his policy speech: 
In 1978-79 we will expand existing programs to provide a total of $60m annually for the next five years to improve urban public transport. 
Nothing could be clearer than that. However, in the Budget the initial advance which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced for urban public transport was not $60m but $40m. The Government had promised $300m for urban public transport over a three-year period. It will not reach this target. However, the target was not based on need. The Bureau of Transport Economics estimated in its background study 'Urban Transport Capital Requirements 1977-78 to 1979-80', that over a three-year period the estimated economically warranted capital investment for State capital city public transport projects, in 1974-75 prices, was $l,054m and that, given the present state of planning in the States, they could spend at least $62 9m in that three-year period. The Government's commitment was not based in any real sense on the Bureau's research. Its actual commitment indicates that it has no commitment at all to urban public transport. 
The reaction of  Mr Cox,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, speaking on behalf of the 
Government which has won two elections- the last overwhelmingly- at least in part, on the basis of its transport policies, summed up the view for the States. He said: 
Talk about trying to get political mileage virtually out of nothing . . . in his 1977 policy speech the Prime Minister promised $60m annually over five years. . . . The New South Wales share was to have been S 14m per annum plus a share of $20m to be determined on a needs basis, the expectation of New South Wales being $6m per annum. This year the needs component is dropped and New South Wales is to get only the $14m basic grant. What an insignificant contribution when it is considered that New South Wales is providing $207m this year in its $ 1,000m public transport capital investment program. In addition $442m has been provided in this year's State Budget to meet the deficits of the various public transport enterprises for which the Commonwealth makes no direct contribution. 
The Commonwealth Government is contributing in New South Wales to what can be virtually described as the odd project. Its contribution to the overall problems of urban public transport is quite minimal. Similarly in Victoria, the Commonwealth contribution is towards the purchase of a few trains and trams, the upgrading of a small portion of one railway line and is a minimal contribution to the even more horrendous problems faced by public transport in that State where the Government has nothing like the New South Wales upgrading program. 
My own electorate, located as it is in the northeastern corridor of Melbourne, illustrates in a not untypical way the great failures of the public transport system in the urban capitals of Australia. A recent study undertaken by Region 14, a regional organisation of councils involving six municipalities, Diamond Valley, Eltham, Heidelberg, Northcote, Preston and Whittlesea, demonstrates that each of these municipalities faces major problems with the public transport system. The whole corridor has 300,000 people. In that corridor the study identifies 14 disadvantaged areas in terms of deficiencies in public transport services. These problems include the extensive sections of the Hurstbridge railway line, which will remain unduplicated after the current McLeod-Watsonia duplication is completed, funded under the first part of the Labor Government's urban public transport program, problems of obsolete signalling facilities on both the Hurstbridge and the Epping lines and the almost total lack of east-west public transport services north of Bell Street in this corridor, a major factor in the present situation of very high levels of unemployment in fringe areas of the City. At page 55 the report states: 
The outstanding feature of transport services in the region is their absence. While the rail and tramway services provide relatively high quality travel on a radial basis from the city, there is a tremendous lack of services of the circumferential nature. The lack of east west bus services is illustrated by the fact that the bus service across Bell Street is the northern most route providing a cross regional service. The alternatives for people dependent on public transport and living north of this route and wishing to travel across the region, are travelling south and then changing journey across, and then north again by train or bus, or take the train to Clifton Hill and change rail lines. 
The report also documents in detail a number of other problems. Almost nowhere in that corridor is there any proper co-ordination between different modes of transport so that people involved in changes from train to bus are inevitably suffering waiting periods, sometimes of an extensive nature, rarely with proper provision for shelter. There are no proper transport interchanges except perhaps at Northland shopping centre where the service is geared completely to shopping trips and not at all to the journey to work. People, the report suggests, almost need a research assistant to interpret timetables and to plan journeys. The selection of routes for public transport tends to be highly arbitrary in nature and after-hours services, that is, services of an evening or at a weekend, are next to impossible. In other words, there is evidence which is provided in this report of what could only be described as a transport poor society, people who are deprived proper access to community facilities because they are earless. 
There is about the growth of cities a kind of profound irrationality which reflects the madness of the underlying economic system. We have allowed our cities to be built to serve the interests not simply of large scale capital, but of capital which has not even the vaguest sense of social responsibility. Thus we have shopping centres like Northland which are designed not to assist people with their purchase of goods in the most convenient way, but rather with the maximisation of profits to the total indifference to social and human factors. These vast inhuman and insensitive retailing deserts represent the visible evidence of the harshness of capital and the exploitation of the city for the gain of the few. Large scale housing developments like Mill Park which is currently being built and is projected to house 20,000 people are constructed in isolation from any rational transport planning. These not only contribute to suburban amnesia but, in addition, are enormous generators of car traffic which drifts through the intermediate and inner suburbs without any regard for the external effects and the traffic blight that is caused. 
The honourable member would not understand. The major institutions such as hospitals, which abound in this corridor, are allowed to develop without the slightest consideration for public transport services, and even Latrobe University was built on the assumption that students and staff would make their way there through intermediate suburbs in the private car, and public transport was totally neglected. All these problems, all this irrationality, cannot be blamed on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and on this Government, but it has in the main been Liberal governments in Canberra and in Victoria which have lacked the concern and interest and the will to seek to impose order on the urban environment. In the name of free enterprise they have permitted land use and then transport chaos and the concept of planning has been absolutely and completely minimal. This criminal neglect, this irresponsible pandering to business and real estate investors, is now leaving a legacy of almost insuperable problems. 
The wise, the wealthy and the powerful are now deserting the suburbs and moving back into the intermediate areas of the large cities because they can see the coming impact of the energy crisis and its implications for urban transport. The outer suburbs are facing a monumental transport crisis which will not be easily solved because of the land use patterns that have been established and the preference for single dwelling units. The solution to the transport problems of Australian cities is certain to be enormously costly and require new forms of planning and much stronger constraints on living patterns. 
The policies of the Whitlam Government on urban planning have never been more necessary. The study from which I have quoted is such a legacy, being a study undertaken with the benefit of Commonwealth funds provided under the Transport Planning and Research Act. The funds under this Act have now been reduced by $2m in this Budget. There is no doubt that public transport has an important future in Australia. If we are concerned about the issue of energy- the Government claimed that it was when it raised the price of oil to world parity- then public transport has a crucial role. World parity prices will generate additional revenue for the Government. It is important that these additional funds be channelled into programs that will contribute to the solution of our long term energy problems. It is to be hoped that the Minister will ensure that the commitment to $60m annually is restored at the first opportunity and certainly within the next Budget. Perhaps in the light of world parity prices, the Minister might also begin to press for a larger share of revenue for urban public transport programs as well as for inter-city system upgrading, such as lines serving provincial cities in Victoria. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I refer briefly to the subject of industrial safety and health in Australia with particular reference to the nature of the Australian work force which is increasingly multi-cultural. The statistics available clearly indicate the enormity of the problem. For example, the Department of Productivity, using census and compensation figures, states that in an average year there are 300 deaths from accidents at work, 350,000 temporary disabilities and over one million man weeks lost each year. Compensation returns indicate that $ 1 ,000m is lost each year through lost wages and salaries. The safety institute estimates that up to $5,000m is lost through wages, lost production and damage. 
The Department of Productivity also estimates that, on average, approximately three times as much time is lost because of accidents and illnesses than is lost because of industrial disputes. In an earlier speech I discussed the problems of the various pieces of legislation which exist within the Commonwealth and the States. This legislation is often inconsistent and, overall, it is not doing much to deal with the immense problem to which I have just referred. One recent initiative which has been taken has been an attempt by the Commonwealth Government to implement a code of general principle concerning occupational safety and health in Australian Government employment. This code was developed by a committee from concerned government departments, from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and from inspectors of State labour departments. 
Earlier this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that Commonwealth departments and factories would implement the code as soon as they were able, thereby giving a lead to both private industries and to State government industries. The code is an attempt to provide overall guidelines for all industries. It has been largely based on recent experience in the development of occupational health and safety legislation in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Sweden and other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. Being based on these experiences, the code has adopted the broad findings and tenets of such recent acts, emphasising the need for involvement and cooperation of all parties concerned with safety and health. The foreword to the code sets out the basis for this by stating: 
Maximum safety cannot be ensured by control of the environment alone but demands the understanding and cooperation of all persons at all levels. 
It continues: 
The code provides not only for the control of the physical environment, but for the training, consultation between management and employees and their maximum involvement in all accident prevention measures. 
This code, if implemented, would provide a good basis on which to develop a healthier and safer work environment. The most serious problem, however, is the lack of recognition given by the code to the multi-cultural diversity of our work force. The code states that to effectively control safety and prevent accidents, in effect all workers must be involved and consulted, and must understand procedures. However, the code does not acknowledge who these workers are. Statistics from the United Nations Demographic Handbooks, 1973-76, show that, outside Israel, Australia today has the most diverse work force of all modern, industrialised countries. For example, 39 per cent of the present population of Australia has either been born overseas or at least has one parent of overseas origin. Nearly 20 per cent of Australia's population are persons of non-Anglo Saxon origin. Migrant males in the work force from non-Anglo Saxon countries tend to be concentrated in manufacturing industries. For example, in the 1971 census we find that some 48 per cent Yugoslav born, 48 per cent Greek born, 37 per cent Italian born and 35 per cent German born work in manufacturing industry, compared with 19 per cent of all Australian born and 28 per cent of United Kingdom male workers. As Lever has pointed out: 
The proportion of migrants in certain, mainly low status manual occupations, is rising faster than is their proportion in the population. Australian and British born are leaving these jobs while non-British migrants are either entering them, staying in them or leaving them more slowly than are Australian or British workers. 
The key point of this is that in developing industrial safety and health policies in Australia we must constantly be aware that the work force is so diverse. Non-English speaking migrants increasingly form the basis of manufacturing and construction industries. A recent study carried out by the Centre for Urban Research and Action into a particular industry shows some of the problems. It showed that in this particular industry, which involved hard, dirty and manual labour, 58 per cent of the workers surveyed had lost time through accidents. Most accidents happened to people in their first 12 months of work. Employees with the least experience tended to be the most recently arrived migrants and to suffer the most accidents. Whilst one would have to generally support the proposed code for occupational health and safety in Australia, it is important that the code take account of the measures which I have been suggesting. In line with this point I suggest that all communication, induction and training needs to be multi-lingual. Health and safety information must be passed on to workers In their own language. More appropriate safety, induction and training sessions should be established for migrant workers. English language training on the job should be provided as a right to all non-English speaking workers. These courses should involve workers and bilingual educationalists so that the most relevant material is used. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 o'clock the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday next at 3 p.m. 
-by leave-I echo briefly the comments of the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  in relation to the staff of the Committee. We must recognise that standing committees such as this are able to do the work that they do very much because of the staffing back-up. In this case many aspects of the inquiry were opened up because of the interest and expertise of the staff. From my point of view it was a very interesting inquiry in the sense that it was the first one in which I have participated and in many respects it illustrated some of the problems associated with environmental protection within modern highly industralised societies. 
The first observation I make very briefly is that one of the things that the Committee established was that there is no way that this country can be properly prepared for or be able to deal economically with a major oil disaster of the type mentioned, such as the  Amoco Cadiz  disaster. That eventuality is, in a sense, associated with the acceptance within the community of the need for large-scale oil tankers, The advent of the super tankers does not mean that that danger is diminished; rather it means that the possibility of a major catastrophe becomes ever so much greater or, at least, that the scale of a catastrophe involving a super tanker is so much greater. In a sense, what I am saying is that one cannot resolve the problem finally whilst one accepts the need to transport large volumes of oil on the seas. 
The second interesting point is that very early in our inquiry we were shown a chart which established that the origin of more than 40 per cent of the oil pollution affecting the sea is landbased. Whilst the Committee did not pursue that matter- it would have meant another inquirythis evidence suggests that the problem of oil pollution is very much related to a particular type of industrial system and is not easily dealt with without dealing with the system as a whole. The third point which needs to be emphasised concerns a problem of which the Committee became very much aware, particularly in relation to the Great Barrier Reef and Torres Strait areas, namely, the controls that exist over shipping and the knowledge about shipping, particularly tanker movements. We were told in evidence in Queensland that the clearance between the bottom of the ocean and some of the large tankers gets down to about three or four feet. When one remembers that approximately 25 per cent of all major oil spills are caused by bottoming, it can be seen that close to what is perhaps the most important natural asset that exists in Australia we could have a major disaster. There is no compulsory pilotage. Ships are being navigated from charts which, in some cases, apparently date back to the time of Matthew Flinders, and there are inadequate navigational aids. The situation that we looked at in Queensland is very serious and the section of the report which recommends various measures in relation to this problem ought to be taken extremely seriously by the Government. 
Another issue that arose and which is typical in the environmental area is that the solution to or the means of dealing with a problem creates an even more serious problem. The use of dispersants is touched upon in the report. The Committee is guarded about their use and recommends that the use of dispersants be restricted to special situations because of the additional impact that the toxic effect of dispersants creates over and above the impact of the oil. I think that it is important to look at those sections of the report which deal with the question of penalties and to note that the Committee found that in the various States not terribly harsh penalties are being imposed. A fine of not more than $50,000 has been imposed for ships emitting oil spills and in no case has anything like the full penalty actually been imposed where an oil spill has been traced to a particular ship. The report suggests that there is a need for the whole question of compensation to be taken much more seriously. For that to occur international action is required. I draw the attention of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to recommendation 12 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in relation to oil spills. It states:  the Commonwealth Government take immediate steps to ratify the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage 1969 and the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage 1 97 1 . 
Finally, it must be recognised that we are dealing with an international problem. Australia ought to be taking the lead in this area as there is no other country which has a more extended coastline than Australia and which is more vulnerable to catastrophe associated with a major oil spill. It is odd that we are not one of the first countries signing such a convention. I commend the report to the House. The inquiry has been a very valuable exercise and the recommendations, if adopted, could do much to mitigate the effects of oil spills. 
-Without a great deal of preparation, but noting that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is at the table, I want to draw to his attention the fact that a large number of people in my electorate, which is certainly not in Queensland, have been quite consistently writing letters to me as the local member about the situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 1 think it is quite clear that many of the people who have been writing these letters are associated with the Uniting Church in Australia. I guess that their interest in part stems from the fact that through the Press of the church they have become very much aware and kept aware of the developments that have occurred during the course of this year. I think that they are very much aware that the Federal Government made certain commitments at the time that legislation was introduced and prior to the various agreements- some might say dealsthat were entered into between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government about guaranteeing the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island what was euphemistically described as self management. 
We know that in the period since the Queensland legislation was introduced the people in that area have been placed in the very situation that they have said consistently- to my understanding, certainly since 1968- that they do not want to be in, and that is under the control of the Queensland Government. Consistently since that time, as I understand it, they have been putting forward three priorities. Firstly, they want to secure title to the reserves which we remember were abolished by the Queensland Government in its desire to frustrate what the people understood at that time to be a very strong intention of the Federal Government. Secondly, they did not want in any sense to be under the control of the Queensland Government. 
When the local council made that clear we remember that it was removed by the Queensland Government. Thirdly, they wanted to have a form of management which suited their situation as they understood it. 
The constituents who have been writing to me understand that the Aboriginal people are not only no closer to those objectives which they have been speaking about and they have been articulating over a long period of time, but the impression of these people who are, admittedly, distant from the scene, is that the Aboriginal people are further away from those objectives than perhaps they have ever been and that the Federal Government which was speaking with a great deal of commitment in March and April is sounding more and more like a government which is very weak-kneed on the issue indeed. I believe that there are many people in electorates around Australia, including people who normally do not support the political Party that I represent, who are very shocked and very dismayed at the attitude of this Government to land rights. Perhaps the clearest way in which I can draw attention to what an increasing number of church people are feeling is to refer to what  Senator Bonner  described as a very important document. 
I have never appreciated the honourable member's sense of humour. It was a document put out by the catholic bishops for the education of Catholic people who, in parishes throughout Australia, will be studying this document. I want to quote some of the things which that document said because if one measures the Aurukun situation against that document one can see what this Government is not. The document states: 
History cannot be reversed, but the Australian community which enjoys the fruits of economic development founded on the misappropriation of land cannot remain impervious to shame, nor uncommitted to the just demands for restitution and compensation. Perhaps, even more urgently, that sorry history must not be repeated, as in differing degrees has happened at Weipa in North Queensland, and Gove in the Northern Territory. 
The document goes on to suggest that the whole question of Aboriginal land rights has to be put over and against the tendency of the Australian community to put economic interest- mining interests- over and against the interests of a particular people. We well know that in the Aurukun situation we have the question of bauxite - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
And in the Kakadu situation we have the question of uranium. 
I want to address my remarks particularly to the area of urban arterial roads which is that aspect of funding, within the overall allocation for roads, that suffered the sharpest cuts. I think one must agree with the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  that one needs to look at the expenditure in particular areas such as this within the context of the overall strategy. One has to see whether in fact expenditures are justified and whether changes in the pattern of expenditure are justified in the transport area and in the roads area in particular. One has to ask whether they fit in with the Government's strategy as a whole and whether they are consistent with that strategy. One of the causes for concern in respect of this legislation dealing with the funding of roads is that at a time when the Government, as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  suggested, achieved in one particular year a windfall revenue of over $700m- this is related presumably to the whole question of energy conservation- when we look at the transport area we do not see that particular move as part of a transport strategy. 
Clearly, within this country transport is the largest single consumer of energy. We cannot have within Australia a rational approach to energy without that approach following through to the transport area. I believe it is significant that in this year, the same year in which we say that we are conscious of energy conservation and we are prepared to take $700m out of the pockets of the motorists, we are chopping back in the area of transport planning. Cuts of about $2m have been made in the Federal contribution to transport planning. These cuts have been made in the same year as the Government made a commitment- it made that commitment just a few months ago- to a certain level of expenditure in support of the States' urban public transport. Yet a Bill has been introduced into the House which will effectively reduce the amount of money that will be spent this particular year in relation to that commitment. This puts off movement towards an effective and rational public transport policy. The principal cut will occur in one of the most sensitive areas if one is thinking of developing, redeveloping and improving public transport systems as a priority. I refer to the category of roads known as urban arterials. Funding for Australia has been chopped back from $87m in 1 977-78 to $85.8m. 
In Victoria, to which I want to refer in particular, funding has been cut back from $28. 9m to $23. 7m. In actual terms, that is a cut of $5m in one year. That is quite a solid chop back. There are various ways of interpreting the reasons for that decision. One could argue that if that decision related particularly to certain forms of urban arterial roads in the major cities- I refer particularly to freeways- then certainly I would want to argue in favour of that decision. I believe we need to recognise that the freeway as a form of road is quite unsuitable to urban conditions and for built-up areas in any city in Australia. The Government, if it is having a good solid chop at the Victorian Government for the excessive way that it has gone in for freeway construction, is to be congratulated. This Government has made a great deal of the fact that it always consulted the States before it made these decisions and ensured that the States were fully in agreement with decisions of the Federal Government. But clearly in the case of urban arterial roads, particularly their effects on the urban freeway program, this Government is clearly out of accord with its State counterparts, especially in Victoria. I refer to an article in the Melbourne Age on 3 November 1 978. It states: 
The State Transport Minister,  Mr Maclellan,  yesterday attacked his Federal counterpart,  Mr Nixon,  for burdening Victoria with extra urban freeway spending. 

 Mr Maclellan said  Mr Nixon  had shaped Federal policy for political purposes. 
 He  (Mr Nixon)  is trying to make a good fellow of himself to country people ', he said . . . 

 Mr Maclellan said  Mr Nixon  had rejected independent advice from the Commonwealth Bureau of Transport Economics . . . in forming his policy. 
State funds had to be used to 'counter the imbalance' when Federal funds were diverted to national highways. 
I think that one does not have to agree with what  Mr Maclellan  is suggesting. One has to recognise that  Mr Maclellan,  while accusing  Mr Nixon  of being political, is himself being political. He is the victim of a State government's policy of producing transport chaos. That will be one of the major factors that will run the Victorian State Government out of office. We saw a swing of 9 per cent in Ballarat only last weekend. A 9 per cent swing in Ballarat means a 13 per cent swing in any outer suburban electorate. 
Yes, a 1 5 per cent swing in Preston. The situation is that the Hamer Government is about to be run out of office in Victoria not only because of the corruption which it has displayed in regard to land dealings and housing projectsthere was another such allegation in this morning's Melbourne  Age-  but also because of the situation of absolute transport chaos that has been created by the fact that money has been wasted on unfinished and unconnected freeways that are environmentally expensive and socially destructive. That cannot be said too often. It will be said in Victoria over the next few months. We will see the Hamer Government run out of office partly because of its inability to deal with the transport policy question. That is why  Mr Maclellan-  an aspirant for the leadership, someone who undoubtedly will be trained to replace  Mr Hamer  early next year- is so critical of the Commonwealth Government which is showing the ineptitude of the Victorian Government as it forces that Government to spend more of its money on freeways or abandon the policy. But then, this Government also claimed that it had an understanding of the way people thought not only within the States but also in those areas outside the metropolitan areas. This was to be a government that would have a feel for the provincial cities around Australia- for those nonmetropolitan areas- and for their transport needs. 
It is clear that in Victoria the effects of the cutbacks in urban arterial roads, particularly within the context of the Hamer State Government's regressive and absurd policies in relation to transport planning, have created an extraordinarly awkward situation for provincial cities. The effect of the cutbacks in urban arterial roads means that cities such as Ballarat- where a byelection was held the other Saturday- Bendigowhere we will be winning seats- and Geelong, will have virtually no money at all for arterial roads within the bounds of those provincial centres. The representatives of these cities made their views known to the Minister for Transport very clearly late last year when they wrote to him pointing out that there was no way that they were going to be misled by the subterfuge of suggesting that additional funds for rural local roads, or even for urban local roads, would be a substitute for cutting back in funding in what they regarded as the crucial area of urban arterial roads. 
When cities reach the scale of those provincial cities just as in metropolitan areas, they are divided between suburbs. People within those cities have the same problems of mobility that people in metropolitan centres have. If they are not able to travel quickly and efficiently between various areas of the cities they are not able to take full advantage of the facilities that are available within those cities. The local governments of those three cities of Bendigo, Ballarat and Geelong wrote to the Minister late last year pointing strongly to the fact that the cutbacks in the area of urban arterial roads that have been progressively followed by this Government were hitting at the heart of the localised transport systems of cities such as Bendigo, Ballarat and Geelong. 
Those cities went on to point out- the figures were included in their letter- how the actual funds provided for urban arterial roads contrasted with the recommendations of the Bureau of Transport Economics or, as it was then, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in its 1975 report. The letter contained figures to suggest that although the Bureau at that time was suggesting that escalating expenditure on urban arterials ought to be available in fact in practice there have been reductions in real terms year in and year out since this Government has been in power. This has had a serious effect on provincial towns in Victoria. Those cities are aware of that and of the fact that not only does the Hamer Government have to be thrown out but also the Fraser Government has been part of the move to reduce the effective transport systems of these cities. 
The principal emphasis I turn to is that when one talks about urban arterial roads one does not need to think necessarily of their importance in terms of the private motor vehicle. We ought to recognise that given the changes that are occurring in world energy resources and the reality of the shortage of oil in Australia by the mid-4 980s, and certainly the very drastically changed situation for the world by the turn of the century, we need to be moving towards alternative transport systems. We need at least to be reducing the total dependence that so many communities have upon the private motor vehicle and the enormous consumption of oil that is involved in our dependence on the private motor car. I do not want to go into any details or to take the time of the House but I shall refer briefly to an article in a journal called  Ecos  of August 1978 which describes some research that was carried out in Melbourne by three researchers-  Dr Sharpe, Dr Brotchie,  and  Dr Toakley-  who looked at the implications of the continuation of the pattern of urban development that we currently have and continuing dependence on the use of fuel by the private motor car. The report states: 
The study predicts that if low-density development (detached housing on the normal suburban block) continues at the fringe of today's outer suburbs, energy use by private transport will rise to 700 TJ per day and that by public transport to 33 TJ per day. This represents an increase of 85 per cent on the 1 976 total. If new development is restricted to one sector of the outer fringe, the increase is still greater. 
Without changes in policy we are talking about the doubling of the use of energy by the private motor vehicle by the turn of the century. Clearly this is irrational. This is madness. We ought to be changing now. We ought to be changing this year because this year we could have had at least part of $700m to begin to develop alternative ways of organising our cities. In the short run the urban arterial road, the connecting road within the existing cities, is crucial. It is on that road.that we can imagine the use of bus systems which in many respects will be most suited to the low density character of Australian cities. We have to recognise that in Victoria in particular, but in other States as well to a certain extent, there has been too much indulging in major freeway projects by transport ministries. These projects might look terrific on the planning board but they end up costing perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars and they do not produce an overall rational transport system. If we are to get an overall rational transport system then part of the approach will need to be the improvement of urban arterial roads. 
In my electorate of Batman in the north eastern corridor of Melbourne a recent study has shown that it is almost impossible for people to make effective cross-city or circumferential journeys through that corridor to link job opportunities and shopping trips which would save the use of important private car energy. This is simply because the necessary public transport system and indeed roads suitable for public transport have not been created. I believe that a number of groups in the community are beginning to think about how we can begin to redesign our road systems so that we achieve a more effective transport system, so that we make journeys possible for people in a corporate way whether it is by bus, taxi or by car pooling arrangements. We should begin to introduce certain safety measures to separate the various uses which interact or interrelate in urban road systems. 
One of the groups that has been doing some important work in this area in Melbourne is the Town and Country Planning Association. In August of this year it published a transport policy which refers particularly to the whole area of arterial roads and suggests a number of specific policies that ought to be introduced without delay. Many of these policies surely should be encouraged by the Federal Government which is so good at talking to the States and so effective in its relations with the States. It could encourage States such as Victoria, which has not been doing any of the things that I have mentioned, to begin to do those things. It is not simply a question of money. It is a question of imagination, will and recognition of the importance of beginning to change priorities in relation to transport. 
Some of the suggestions that are made by the Town and Country Planning Association are the need for increased traffic management and road improvement measures to increase traffic flow, for example, by having synchronised lights, flared intersections, pedestrian separation. They are all obvious enough suggestions. The report then mentions priority lanes for public transport and multiple person vehicles with provision for traffic light remote control for public transport drivers which could be used where appropriate. The whole concept of having bus lanes in the city of Melbourne, and indeed most other Australian cities, is so foreign as to seem to be almost light years away. Yet how obvious it is that if we are to give effective priority to public transport and buses, and cut back on the use of the private motorcar, we ought to be creating lanes for buses. We ought to be building in the kind of priority controls at major intersections so that traffic lights will give buses the right of way. That is a pretty obvious suggestion but, unless we can get rid of the Hamer Government early next year, it is light years away in Victoria. 
It is also suggested that trams should be placed in their own right of way, as defined by kerbing or other devices, where street widths allow. That is so obvious. It has been done in Nicholson Street in the inner area of Melbourne but very rarely in Australian cities generally. It is certainly an obvious move which would have an enormous effect on improving the efficiency of Melbourne's tramway system. It is further suggested that kerbside moving lanes should be widened where possible to allow a safer sharing of road space with bicycles. Why should the kids in the gallery have to risk their lives every time they go out on a bike because we, as a national Parliament, are not able to make the use of bicycles in local trips a priority. It is absolutely absurd that the priority cannot be given. We ought to be able to do something about that, and it would not cost a great deal of money. It is about to be done in Geelong. Why is it not being done in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane? 
Reference is also made to the creation of offstreet parking where needed on arterial routes to allow for kerbside bus lanes, greater clearway designation without loss. Through such obvious and not necessarily costly measures, it would be possible to begin to get arterial road systems working, and not have to go into the whole question of freeways. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My experience since becoming the honourable member for Batman has led me to believe that my electorate, which is a Labor electorate, does not figure very highly in the priorities of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The Northcote office of the Commonwealth Employment Service has been in need of new and extended premises for more than three years. Currently, it is hopelessly overcrowded with more than 20 staff being pressed into a space of no more than 93 square metres, which is a third of the rninimum space required for a staff of 20 people. Repeated efforts by my predecessor,  Mr Garrick,  and this year by me have drawn only correspondence from the Minister and the Department and not action. These appalling conditions would be condemned by the Department of Health if it were given the opportunity: There is a single toilet for the more than 20 employees, no conference or meeting room, and, of greatest concern, no provision for private interviews with the unemployed, despite the sensitive nature of matters subject to discussion. Currently several buildings are available for sale or rent within a matter of yards of the existing premises and close to the Northcote Town Hall. The limited time available to me does not permit me to canvass further the problems associated with the present office or the opportunities which might be offered by the office being relocated in renovated premises nearby. Suffice to say the whole matter is being handled in a thoroughly incompetent manner, which reflects both on the Minister and his Department. 
Similarly, there has been a series of problems associated with the Northcote Community Youth Support scheme. It has suffered most of this year from the uncertainties associated with revised guidelines which recently have been severely criticised and discredited by a meeting held on 27 October between  Mr Street  and the State chairpersons of CYSS State committees from around Australia. I am pleased to say that it is now possible for CYSS to resume its program at Northcote, but only after great agonising on the part of the local committee of management and unemployed youth. The scheme is to be provided with substantially reduced funding also. It is to be hoped that the Minister will soon announce revised guidelines to remove the excessive restraints of the previous guidelines announced only in June. The Community Youth Support scheme will have value only if there is sufficient flexibility to meet variations in local conditions. Full consultation with the project committees and staff would have avoided considerable frustration with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which, under the present Minister, appears to be incapable of developing clear, effective and sensitive program guidelines. 
On the same day that I received a telegram confirming funding for Northcote CYSS, I was informed that one of the electorate 's most highly regarded programs for unemployed youth- the West Heidelberg Youth program- is to lose its funding on 27 November. This program serves the unemployed youth of West Heidelberg in which, in April of this year, more than 50 per cent of the large number of unemployed were under 19 years of age. Currently the number unemployed is 1,380, of which more than 40 per cent are under 19 years of age. The program serves a number of young people who are having difficulty in establishing themselves in the work force. It provides educational and supportive programs which are designed to bridge the gap between school and work. The program has been carefully designed to teach skills within a supportive environment in which full account is taken of the need to work through the often serious problems of the young people, as well as ensuring effective working relationships with the local technical schools and employers. 
As far as I can tell, the demise of the scheme flows from the Government's concern at the open-ended nature of funding for the National Employment and Training scheme- that was last year's policy- and the desire to restrict expenditure in this year's Budget, despite ever-growing unemployment. As in the case of CYSS, there are new guidelines which, like the research on which they are based, are hidden somewhere in the bureaucracy. It would seem that programs like WHYP and, incidentally, the Vocational Employment Training scheme in Green Valley in Sydney have fallen foul of the new guidelines which emphasise, in an unrealistic manner, job skills to the exclusion of work orientation programs such as that developed in Green Valley in Sydney and West Heidelberg in Melbourne. 
Both schemes are apparently highly regarded. A spokesman for the Minister said that the Green Valley scheme 'is very costly, though it is also very effective. But the Government can't fund everything'. Similarly, in Melbourne the organisers of the WHYP have been told that their scheme, which has placed many kids in employment- kids who had been long term unemployment risks- is highly regarded in the Department but that it must go because it does not meet the guidelines and/or ought to be the responsibility of the technical and further education institutions. However,  Mr Watts,  the Victorian Director of Technical Education, was quoted in Saturday 's  Age  as saying: 
TAFE has neither the authority nor the resources to take over a large scale commitment to an outside organisation. 
The new policy guidelines which I have seen, and which presumably the people of West Heidelberg have not seen, appear to provide much more emphasis on educational programs and to neglect the social or community work component which has been the essence of the success of WHYP. The emphasis on integrating education and community work components that is present in WHYP is not accidental, based as it is on substantial research carried out in West Heidelberg by the poverty inquiry. The program is established in line with recommendations of that inquiry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is an extraordinary thing that six different Ministers representing the different States in Australia should get together - 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  proposed: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
He cannot face the six Ministers and he cannot debate the point in this House. He is a coward. 
-This afternoon, both during Question Time and during the debate on a matter of public importance, we saw the desperate efforts that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  was forced to make, given the degree to which he had been discredited by the handling of that particular portfolio. We have seen particularly the weakness of his situation within the Government - 
-Earlier this week the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  in his general statement on the work of the Department of Productivity referred to the whole matter of industrial health and safety. He said: 
The need to improve our industrial safety and health record, particularly when it is realised that industrial accidents could well be costing Australia in the region of $2 billion each year . . . 
I referred to this matter of industrial safety and health in a previous speech in May, when I outlined the dimensions of the problem as it exists in Australia; the difficulties of achieving action in this area, given the differing legislation of the various States; and the need for the development of a national approach to the whole matter of occupational and industrial safety and health. More recently in a speech I made during the adjournment debate I referred particularly to the problems associated with the development in Australia of what might be described as a multicultural work force. The fact is that the vast majority of people working in Australian industry were born overseas and many of them do not speak perfect English. They have problems which give rise to their being more highly represented in industrial accidents than is the community in general. I come back to that issue in my contribution to this grievance debate. I shall make several points and conclude with some proposals. 
The key point I make is that in developing industrial safety and health policies in Australia we must constantly be aware that the work force is so diverse. Increasingly non-English speaking migrants form the basis of manufacturing and construction industries. It is such migrants, therefore, who are most exposed to risk in terms of industrial safety. Yet the current government health and safety codes barely acknowledge this fact. It is written as though the present Australian work force is homogeneous, monolingual and monocultural. The aims of this code are to involve all workers in their health and safety. This is commendable but, by not acknowledging the present multicultural reality of the Australian work force, such a code, if it is administered in its present form, is both foolish and irresponsible and ultimately a waste of money. 
I refer in particular to a study carried out and completed earlier this year by the Centre for Urban Research and Action. That study was concerned with a large manufacturing industry. It is one of the top Australian companies which for a long time has relied on non-English speaking migrant workers. In the plant studied 87 per cent of the workers were migrants from nonAnglo Saxon countries. The work in that particular industry was hard, dirty and it was a manually labour intensive industry. Of the workers surveyed in the industry, 58 per cent had experienced loss of time through an accident. Most accidents- 57 per cent of them- occurred to persons in their first 12 months of work experience, and 44 per cent occurred to workers who had less than six months work experience. Employees with least experience tend to be most recently arrived migrants. Accidents occurred mostly to backs and shoulders, with leg and arm strains. 
There was a wide range of lacerations, burns, eye injuries, and crushed hands and feet. 
Proportionately more accidents happened on night shift than occurred on day shift. Proportionately more non-English speaking workers work on night shift than on day shift. Migrant workers also work in the most difficult work sections where they tend to have higher proportions of machine related accidents when compared with those of English speaking workers. NonEnglish speaking migrant workers who took part in this study felt that they were more alienated from their work than did Australian born workers. A high proportion of them- 80 per cent- stated that they disliked their work. They distrusted both management and unions and saw them as working in collusion to oppress them and to use their labour. They did not fully understand their machines, their induction or even the work systems. They intensely disliked the bonus systems- 71 per cent gave that indication- 65 per cent disliked shift work and 75 per cent disliked their supervisors. They stated that all these things upset their physical and home life and created problems of nervousness as well as the basic injuries to which I have been referring. 
Many non-English speaking migrant workers- 39 per cent of those surveyed- were so frightened of management that they did not attend the medical centre for attention to cuts and other accidents because they claimed that they would lose money or even their jobs. Related to all this was the fact that only 16 per cent of the entire industry work force could read and speak English to any extent. Yet all communication and training was conducted entirely in English or by demonstration. Workers stated in the survey that they wanted better training, consultation with management and unions and to be involved in safety and health matters of their factories in their own languages. The strongest support for this came from most recently arrived migrants from Turkey, Lebanon and the Middle East. 
These are only a few of the results of this research project, but they indicate the need for appropriate processes, structures and legislation that understand the nature and diversity of the Australian work force. The same report also provides comparative data from Western European countries, the United States of America, South Africa and the Arab region of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in order to show how recently arrived migrants fulfil functions in those countries which are similar to those they fulfil in Australia, namely, to carry out the dirtiest, most difficult, most unpleasant jobs which are denned widely by the respective societies as being socially undesirable. Given this analysis and the fact that non-English speaking migrants are increasingly doing such socially undesirable jobs in Australia- that is, those jobs marked by low social status in one or more of the following traits: Work which is heavy, dirty, dangerous, monotonous, relatively poorly paid, and which has irregular working hours- I argue that it is increasingly important, in developing policies concerning the safety and health of workers, that this fact be made most explicit. 
One would generally support the aims and hopes of the proposed code for occupational health and safety in Australian government employment, but one would hope that greater acknowledgment and emphasis would be given to the fact that the work force affected is diverse, multicultural and multilingual. If health and safety of such a diverse work force is to be improved, all workers must be involved with their unions and management. All persons and groups must be committed to, must understand and must be part of the process of achieving appropriate health and safety initiatives. Any changes imposed by one group on the others is doomed to failure. I think the Minister for Productivity recognised that fact in the speech he made earlier this week. 
In line with this overall guiding principle the following specific steps should be taken: All communication, induction, and training must be multilingual; health and safety information must be passed on to workers in their own languages, preferably by means of multilingual communication discussion groups; more appropriate safety, induction and training sessions should be established for migrant workers; courses for supervisors are urgently required; and English language training on the job should be provided as a right to all non-English speaking workers, perhaps through a tax incentive scheme for employers, such as a social investment allowance. These courses should involve workers and bilingual educationists to enable the most relevant material to be used. Unions should be encouraged to contact non-English speaking migrant workers in their own languages about awards, rights and conditions, safety and health legislation and about how unions work. This would encourage participation and involvement. Management, unions and government departments should use migrant self-help agencies and involve such ethnic welfare and community agencies in the development of safety and health initiatives on the job. Unions and workers must have access to safety records, accident records, and work conditions. If all these initiatives could be encouraged we would have some hope of establishing a more appropriate occupational health and safety code. 
If over a period of time we could develop such an occupational health and safety code which managed to encourage some commitment and involvement of the diverse array of persons and groups that make up Australian industry, it might be appropriate to work towards the development of a Commonwealth health and safety Act which would set the basic standards and processes that would be required for all Australian industry. Such an Act could be evolved on the basis of experience with the code in Australia and other countries. It could perhaps be introduced via the appropriate sections of the Constitution which deal with Federal powers. Perhaps the sections which deal with interstate trade or with foreign affairs could be used to implement the International Labour Organisation covenants. Inevitably, however, such an Act would depend on the support and co-operation of the States. 
I think that the subject I have raised is an important one. It is one about which I think there is some recognition on the part of the Government that it should do something. I believe that the Government needs to go much further but, of course, one has to recognise, as it is recognised on this side of the House, that inevitable contradictions are built into the capitalist system. For example, there is a contradiction within the Minister's own portfolio in that he emphasises the drive towards productivity, as if somehow that drive towards productivity will not involve the exploitation of the work force. In the post-war period Australian manufacturing industry has been built on the systematic exploitation of an imported working class. The problems to which I have referred are endemic to that capitalist system as it has been reflected in Australian postwar history. If Victorian resolutions mean that ultimately while that system remains - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I remind the House that the change that took place in relation to the employment portfolio stemmed from the honesty of the previous Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the present Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I think everyone will agree that he is a reasonable man. He started to talk to the officers in his Department and to listen to the kind of arguments that they developed. Those arguments convinced that Minister it was time to go into the Cabinet room and into this Parliament and speak the truth. Honourable members opposite can cite a few statistics. But they are always the favourable statistics, always the statistics that the Government can interpret in some way to try to tell the Australian people that a very serious problem, the most serious problem during the last 50 years of Australia's history, is beginning to turn the corner. They do this rather than grapple seriously with the problem. The reason the present Minister for Industrial Relations is not replying to the debate from the table today is that he was beginning to grapple seriously with this problem. 
People who are listening to the parliamentary broadcast today ought to know that there are only two honourable members sitting on the Government side of the House to discuss the issue of the 500,000 people who are unemployed, the worst unemployment in the post-war history of this Government. Yet Government members cannot even come into the House to discuss this matter with members of the Opposition. That is absolutely outrageous and totally reprehensible. It strikes at the basis of parliament as a democratic institution. If, when there are half a million people unemployed and perhaps 250,000 additional people who are unable to find their place within Australian society- we know how important employment is in terms of identity- the matter cannot be discussed by more than a single member on the Government front bench and with no more than two members on the Government side in the House, what the hell are we doing here? There is no point in our coming into the Parliament to chatter about the most serious matter in recent Australian history if Government members simply desert the House because the Government is not prepared to face up to the realities of the statistics. 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  can clutch at a figure here and a figure there. But, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  used to say, the runs are on the board. There are 490,000 people who cannot get jobs in Australia and who are becoming increasingly angry about it. I will not say to the people who are unemployed in my electorate, You ought not to be angry.' I will not say to them, 'Why do you not join a voluntary community service scheme and receive your unemployment benefits while working for some organisation that you have no time for but with which perhaps the Minister would like to ingratiate himself? I will not say to people that they ought to be working under the Community Youth Support scheme when I know that that scheme can offer nothing but tea and bickies This is a government which is introducing policies based on absolute trivia. One becomes very amused when Government members talk about Labor's record, when they talk about what may have happened and about what may have been the basic and root causes of unemployment. This is a government which is not interested in serious analysis. For three years the Prime Minister and his Ministers have thought that all they need to do is repeat the unemployment figures of 1974 and 1975. We are well aware of those figures. At the time we took them seriously. One hopes that the implication of the Minister's remarks today is that he sees the graveness and the critical nature of the unemployment situation in Australia. 
But I might say that when one looks at the programs that he is talking about, at the kind of analysis that he is undertaking and at the absence of research being done into the problems of employment in this country, one wonders very much whether this Minister is here to do anything more than apply a cosmetic touch. He sold the Aboriginal people at Oenpelli down the drain. I believe he has been appointed Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to do a con job on a problem that ought to be discussed seriously in this Parliament and tackled in a serious way by this Government. After all, at the moment the best part of $ 1,200m of the taxpayers' money is simply going out of the Government treasury to support people at a very basic subsistence level. Not a cent is being spent by this Government on job creation programs. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, this Government does not want to talk about job creation programs. This Government does not want to know if the American Government has had success in creating jobs. It says that that is a different situation. 
All the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have sought, in one way or another, to stimulate job creation programs. However, the Australian Government has sought to avoid that situation within the Australian economy. 
The Minister made an implicit attack on the wage and salary earners of this country. He said that one man's wage increase costs another man his job and that the people who received thenpay increases at Christmas time ought to be ashamed. He said that they should be ashamed of the 4 per cent pay increase they were receiving because they were taking jobs away from people who were unemployed. What arrant nonsense; what rubbish! What sort of economics is it to suggest that unemployment is simply caused by the level of wages. Does the Government think that members of the Opposition will come into the Parliament and listen to that kind of trash all through this year in the way we have heard it for the last three years? We will not. We will ask the Government and its spokesmen at least to make some serious analysis of the position and to look at the relationship, not simply between wages and employment, but between all the other factors. When  Mr Jackson  looked at manufacturing industry and saw the crisis that occurred in it, he did not single out wages as being the basis of the whole crisis. He looked at a whole range of problems that were afflicting employment in that industry. When one looks at the kind of management that has been associated with recent company crashes in this country and the identification of that management with the Liberal Party of Australia, one wonders very much how that party can bring people in to talk about running the nation's economy. They cannot even run finance companies. 
-Or Computicket. Quite right. It seems to me that the Government has a responsibility and that this Parliament has a right to hear about serious analysis. The Minister spoke about the failure of the Opposition to come up with alternative policies and its failure to be constructive. I remember the Prime Minister, who was Leader of the Opposition at the time, being interviewed, I think on the television program  Monday Conference.  He was asked what policies he would pursue and what he would suggest the then Government ought to be doing. The present Prime Minister refused to do that. He said that it was not the Opposition's business to suggest alternatives. But that is not the way this Opposition has been approaching the economy and unemployment. When the last Budget was brought down we produced an alternative budget. We suggested a series of measures that could have been taken to reduce the incredible levels of unemployment during the current year. We put forward those proposals and the Prime Minister had a great deal of fun playing with the figures we had produced, even though at the time he was Leader of the Opposition he would not do this. He said, 'When I get control of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank I will tell you what I am going to do'. But this Opposition has not done that. We have tried to say what ought to be done. 
I will refer to some of the things we have suggested. We have certainly talked about the need for a mild economic stimulus. We have not simply talked about the need to expand the public sector ad infinitum, although the Minister was not really able to suggest what exactly was wrong with expanding the public sector or to say anything about whether such a move might be appropriate or inappropriate. A whole series of other measures clearly needs to be implemented. As far as this Government is concerned, manpower planning is simply non-existent. Members of the Opposition have been saying that we need manpower planning in this country. We need research. We need to understand something about the reasons, not simply for unemployment in general, but also why unemployment in particular groups of people is higher than in other groups of people. We need to know much more about unemployment of women. We need to know much more about employment in regional areas. We need to know much more about how unemployment is affecting particular occupational groups. But one sees no sign of that kind of discussion occurring within the Government, or of background research being done that might illuminate those problems. All one sees in terms of the Government's policy on unemployment is a hope, a wish, that somehow, some day, things will be better and until then honourable members opposite can always blame the Labor Government. For the next 10, 15 or 25 years they will refer to the situation that prevailed in 1974. 1 believe that working people and people who are unemployed will remember this Government for more than 25 years for its attitude to the unemployed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I support the amendment and support the expression of regret that funding in the earlier stages of the five-year program to assist the States with urban public transport improvements should be cut back. Because part of the original allocation for the first two years will not be spent until later, the real value of the funds that have been allocated under this program will be reduced. Whilst supporting the amendment, one recognises that through this legislation the Government has acknowledged the need to continue to provide for the States increased Federal assistance to support urban public transport programs. 
There are a number of issues of a general nature that I would like to comment on. The first question which arose last year when this legislation was being introduced in its original form and which I come back to at this stage when we have an amendment in relation to funding is the question of what scale of funding is justified on a national basis at this stage in our history for urban public transport and how we should determine the basis of funding in an area such as this. Several speakers on the Government side acknowledged the need for the Australian Government and indeed for this nation to be expanding expenditure in this area, but they suggested it was simply a matter of Budget priorities and that in terms of the formulation of this year's Budget it was not possible to meet the expenditure which had been originally foreshadowed. Indeed, they suggested that over the period one could not see how the Government could give greater priority to national urban public transport. 
I think one of the difficulties one has in terms of assessing that sort of proposition is the little information that is provided to the Parliament on the basis of which one can make a judgment as to what level of expenditure ought to be justified. I think it is regrettable that a great deal more information is not provided on legislation such as this and that members of parliament do not have more access to the process of decision-making which results in a figure of $300m. Certainly, in terms of the reading I did on the background papers produced by the Bureau of Transport Economics, I was unable to see very much relationship between its discussion of the capital needs of urban public transport and the particular proposals which have been adopted by the Government. Certainly, one does not see this program in any sense as part of a national transport plan. If transport is as important as I am sure members of this House believe it is, particularly in relation to the rising costs of energy, then one ought to be thinking at this stage of the Government developing some kind of national and comprehensive approach to transport planning which tries to sort out relative spending between the various modes and tries to see how national priorities might relate to what is happening in the various States around Australia. If the energy crisis is to develop the way that many people believe it is likely to develop through into the 1980s, then certainly we will need national energy policies, which we do not have at the moment, we will need a national energy plan and I believe we will need a national transport plan. 
That is really the first point I make. In a sense, the discussion about how much money we ought to be spending on urban public transport seems to lack any kind of context in terms of detailed Federal or national policy on transport priorities. So the figure for Government assistance looks a bit like a figure that has been plucked out of the air rather than a figure that might relate to, say, a five-year program for upgrading certain kinds of systems within the various cities of Australia. Surely at the national level we at least need to be thinking in terms of what the most appropriate forms of public transport will be in the dispersed cities that other speakers have been describing. Whilst ultimately the decisions may have to be made within a State context, nevertheless I believe, there ought to be much more discussion nationally about the framework within which those decisions are made. 
Secondly, I draw attention to the scale of funds that are involved, particularly for the Victorian railway network and the metropolitan provincial parts of that network, to indicate what I believe will be one of the major problems that we will face in Australia if people are right when they say that if we are to have any kind of equity within our cities we will have to develop effective modern public transport systems. I noticed that towards the end of last year the Leader of the Victorian Opposition asked the Victorian Minister of Transport to provide him with information on the funding for the Victorian railways. The annual debt repayments on the accumulated deficit of the Victorian railways is of the order of $150m. I understand that that figure is servicing a total deficit of the order of $2.7 billion dollars. We are talking about one railway system in one State of Australia. If one looks at that system, the extent to which it is run down, the extent to which it is not effectively functioning to meet the needs of people in the metropolitan area and provincial cities, and the scale of investment that will be required to restore that system to something which functions effectively, then really one finds that the scale of investment involved is quite mind-boggling. The metropolitan transport plan which was developed in 1969 is hardly an urban public transport plan; it is essentially a freeway plan on which a limited amount of money- I think something like one-fifth of the - 
-Ten per cent of the total expenditure was to be directed towards public transport. Of that amount of money - 
-The former State member for Melbourne assures me that the amount was $300m out of $3 ,000m. As I remember it the initial estimate of the cost of the Melbourne underground loop was of the order of $80m. When the controlling authority was established it investigated the project and came up with a figure of $1 17m. But as I understand it, the latest estimate of the cost of the Melbourne underground loop, towards which I think the Commonwealth has contributed nothing, will be of the order of $400m. That is for one project. It is one project in which it is clear that almost all the gains will be for the central business district and the retail interests and the property developers and the finance companies who anticipated that development. To some extent, in collusion with the Victorian Government, they have encouraged that development to take priority over all sorts of capital expenditures that might have been developed to improve the workings of that system so that peoples' access to schools, hospitals and community facilities might have been improved. In that kind of situation in which a State government fixes a priority on that kind of basis one despairs about national priorities for transport planning in Australia. One finds it difficult to believe that we will reach a situation in which effective transport planning can occur. 
That takes me on to the third point I wanted to make which is to pick up something that the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  touched on very well. I believe he made a significant contribution to this debate. He emphasised the close interrelationship between land use planning and transport planning. In Victoria- indeed, one might argue, in almost all Australian cities with the possible exception of Canberra- we do not really have land use planning or transport planning. We certainly do not have land use planning. So we have a situation in which governments take on the job of attempting to rationalise decisions that are made by powerful financial interests and land companies after those companies have determined the direction of investment. The history of Australian cities is clearly a history of booms and busts. From the very beginning of the city of Melbourne- indeed the same is true of most other Australian cities- we have seen development of a city fostered not by the use value of land but essentially in terms of its value for speculation and capital gains. The history of Victorian cities- certainly the history of Melbourne- is very much the product of that kind of process. 
Only recently in Victoria we saw that the State Government itself has been closely related with that processs just as it was in the 1880s when so much of the suburban development of the early city of Melbourne occurred around the speculation of companies that were associated with the various railway lines that established that radial system which the honourable member for Lalor was describing. The result of a process of land development which is essentially based on speculation and private decision making, which takes little if any account of the public good and the need for overall planning, is a disaster in terms of transport. It means that governments are asked to socialise the losses after the profits have been made by these companies during the periods of boom. We are asked as governments to provide the services no matter how irrational the pattern of urban development may have been. That of course means that development is extraordinarily expensive. Whether one is talking about sewerage, water supply or educational services- whatever the services are- they are incredibly expensive and it is those service costs which are being borne by the Government. We need to take this into account when we talk about the financing of the public sector and the financing of transport planning. 
I take issue with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  He talked about this question in terms of the Government investing large amounts of money in Tasmania to restore a railway system that has been dismantled. Certainly the Government ought to be responsible for providing public services but one cannot expect governments in Australia to continue to provide those services based, as the honourable member for Denison recognises, on increasing levels of taxation within a context which makes those services prohibitively expensive. Therefore this inevitably produces a situation in which people are paying more tax than they ought to be paying to provide services which are essentially designed to rescue the investments of people who ought to have invested with some sense of social planning and social objectives but who in fact were much more interested in the profits that could be made. The result of that situation ultimately is that people are disadvantaged. Essentially that is what politics is about; it is about people. Essentially that is what economics is about. These decisions that are made have an impact on people. 
In the provincial city of Geelong, for example, the Young Women's Christian Association late last year conducted a good survey of about a thousand women in the Geelong area. The survey showed that the most significant problem to which the women drew attention was the lack of public transport services. Above all the other problems that they might conceivably have mentioned it was transport that was the key. Clearly transport is important not simply for women but for all people in terms of relating them to a whole range of activities. Indeed people's social well being and their real income is very much affected by how they relate to or are not related to any kind of transport system. The Victorian Government has talked for years about developing a transport plan for Geelong and doing something about this problem. But so far it has not done anything about it and the people who lose from that lack of planning of Geelong 's development particularly are women such as those surveyed by the YWCA. 
I guess that one of the difficulties that one has in relation to Federal-State relations is the degree of control that the national Government ought to have in relation to the expenditure priorities of particular governments. I guess that as the Federal Government did not contribute to the Melbourne underground loop in a sense that expenditure could go ahead and the Federal Government ought not to have any say. But one is rather dismayed from time to time when one comes across the activities of particular governments and what is involved with them. Late last year I read in the newspapers of a $8m purchase by the Victorian Government from Clyde Industries Ltd of 10 C-class locomotives which apparently were bought without the recognition by the Government that they would be able to operate on only about two lines in the State. An amount of $8m was spent. Indeed, associated with that purchase was the fact that  Mr Vernon  Wilcox, who had been Minister of Transport in Victoria, I think in the late 1960s, was on the board of the company which sold these trains to the Victorian Government. It may just be coincidence and there may not be much in it. Certainly  Mr Hamer,  who tends to be somewhat naive about his former Ministers, tended to think - 
-Some members of the back bench on the Government side of the House have recently been referring to the situation of pensions in the last Commonwealth Budget and the non-indexation of pensions. It always strikes me that such people are extremely selective when they look at Government policy. I want to draw attention to some of the problems associated with recipients of unemployment benefit. The half million unemployed in Australia will long remember the last Budget, which in a cruel and cynical way hit at the unemployed. In that Budget unemployed persons without dependants lost automatic cost of living adjustments and will receive no increase from this year's Budget. Unemployed young people under 1 8 years received no increase to their $36 a week benefit, which has remained unchanged since 1974. Under present levels of benefits most of the unemployed in receipt of benefits will be well below the poverty line. For example, an unemployed couple with two children will be at least $20 below the poverty line by the end of this year. The result is that people who have often lost their self-respect with their jobs are faced with a style of life which means the restoration of dignity is difficult, if not impossible. People cannot dress in an appropriate manner to present themselves for employment. They are isolated from social functions, and from participating in normal community activities. They are being driven by this Government into social isolation. 
Alongside the inadequancy of the present levels of benefits are all the aspects of discrimination that were based in the 19th century on the distinction between the deserving and undeserving poor. The unemployed are not eligible for rent allowances. They or their spouses may not earn more than $6 a week. They receive no fringe benefits, for example, pharmaceutical benefits or travel concessions. They are subject to loss of benefit at a moment's notice, perhaps because an officer cannot find their address or they are not at home when he calls. Even though more than 80 per cent of appeals against the cessation of benefits are upheld, people have to do without benefits during the period in which their appeals are being heard. Furthermore, they receive the benefit only if they come within very strict guidelines set by this Government. Benefits are not given to claimants failing the work test on appearance grounds. Single persons are obliged to move away from home if work is available elsewhere. 
I draw the attention of the House to the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 29. On forced labour it states that the work and service will not entail the removal of the workers from their habitual place of residence. Under the ILO convention, people ought not be required to move from their place of residence to take work which represents a form of compulsion and which obviously has significant effects in terms of family life. Skilled persons are forced to accept unskilled work. Since the Myers report of November 1977, payments have been made in arrears. However the Government has not picked up the recommendation in the report that called for the need for a more generous and flexible approach to the payment of the unemployment benefit, which is designed to provide interim assistance to people who find themselves temporarily unemployed, long term assistance to those who are unemployed because of events which are outside their control and minimal assistance to those who are poorly motivated to work. 
In the provision of unemployment benefit, it has not been recognised that the average length of time that people are unemployed is now more than 27 weeks. People who are currently unemployed now tend to be unemployed at least half the year. They are no longer simply requiring payments to tide them over a few weeks, they are now placed in a situation where their only income is that benefit and they are being made to feel, being made to live as if they are paupers - 
I second the motion. The first issue that is before us in considering the non-indexation of pensions is, the fundamental question of the credibility of the Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the spokesmen of the Liberal Party. One does not have a great deal of difficulty finding the words in terms of what this Government has said and what its spokesmen have said from the very beginning when the Liberal and National Country Parties went to the election of 1975 through to the Budget that we have just seen passed and even now after the Budget we have the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  saying quite clearly that the Government's commitment to the indexation of pensions was unconditional. She said in the Senate: 
The policy itself and the introduction of that policy into legislation made no qualifications. A subsequent Government decision this Budget has changed the approach to increasing pensions but at the time the policy was announced or legislation was enacted there was no qualification on it. 
There is no equivocation there, nor was there any equivocation before that Budget was framed. Repeatedly various Government spokesmen, members of the other side of the House, gave a commitment to Australia's two million pensioners that they could depend on getting their pension increases along with the movements in the consumer price index on a six-monthly basis. The Government gave that commitment and people heard it, they understood it and they believed it, and in two elections they voted on that basis. Despite those sentiments this Government has ratted on the pensioners of Australia and that is what this debate is about. It is about a government which has ratted on the pensioners of this country. 
The second issue that is important, and it is important in the context of various debates that we had right through last year and the debate that we had yesterday, is that the only way that this Government and the only way that the Prime Minister within this Government can ever deal with a debate in this House is to go back and say: Well, have a look at the Labor Party's record'. Well let us have a look at the Labor Party's record in relation to pensions. The facts are that between 1972 and 1975 pensions increased under Labor by 93.75 per cent. That is almost double compared to a 50 per cent increase in the CPI and a 64 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. During the period 1975 to 1978, a period in which this Government has been in power, pensions have increased by 37 per cent. However the CPI has increased by 38 per cent and average weekly earnings by 32 per cent. That is, under Labor in relation to the CPI the position of pensioners improved by almost 50 per cent, whereas under this Government the position of pensioners even before we look at what is going to happen in the next year with the renewal of inflation has in fact relatively deteriorated. That point can be made about the whole history of Liberal governments in the postwar period. We hear from the other side a great deal about the Whitlam Government, but we do not hear about the successive governments in the postwar period which, in fact, created the situation where it was necessary for a government, in any sense of fairness and justice to the pensioners of this country, to award the kinds of massive increases that occurred during Labor's terms in office. One makes no apologies for that. 
One can go on to say that one does not need an expensive public relations campaign, one does not need to put on extra staff in the Prime Minister 's office to get the message through to pensioners across Australia just what has happened in terms of the non-indexation of pensions. I want to quote from  PM  of 12 February the remarks of  Mrs Ellis,  who is the  president  of the Combined Pensioners Association. I think this puts in a very matter of fact kind of way what the Government is doing and how it is understood by pensioners not only in the safe Labor electorates or in the marginal electorates where Liberal members are getting nervous but also right across Australia. Huw Evans said: 
You mention that it is a hit in the bread basket, as you put it, just how hard does it hit pensioners. 

 Mrs Ellis said: 
Well everybody goes down to the shops to buy goods over the counter and what it means is from next May pensioners, single pensioners, will have about $2.30 less in the pay packet which they should have, and when you go down to buy your goods you have got to have the money, and the thing is, the married couples about $3.80 a week, that's what they're losing by the scrapping of the twice yearly pension increases and that's a considerable amount of money and ... at least 90 per cent of all aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, even though they may have some other income, depend on social security cash benefits for survival and that's the nitty gritty of the whole thing. 
Huw Evans went on to ask how she felt about the fact that people were going to get their sixmonthly increases through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and  Mrs Ellis  said: 
Oh well we 're not feeling- we 're j  just  feeling about it that a pledge has been broken. It was written into the legislation and it was anticipated it would be carried out, it was said it would be carried out and then suddenly it is wiped out and as far as the workers getting it twice yearly, well certainly we should have it twice yearly too and only on the basis of a pledge that was made and of the need, of making it twice yearly. 
I think when  Mrs Ellis  talks about what it is like to live without that kind of marginal increase and when she talks about what it is like to feel betrayed, she is not simply speaking as someone at the head of some large organisation but I think she is echoing what pensioners around Australia are feeling. 
When I spoke in the debate on the Social Services Bill last October I said that that particular Bill and the amendments it encompassed marked the point where the failure of the 
Government's economic strategy begins seriously to affect its capacity to maintain active programs which will guarantee the security of people dependent on Government assistance. The cost of the Government's strategy, as the member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out this morning, are now being felt. Our society cannot afford to have at least three-quarters of a million people not producing and face a fiscal crisis. This Government is confronted with just such a crisis. All that rubbish about Labor getting the country into hock, the single-minded obsession of the Prime Minister with depressing wages and endeavouring to reduce inflation at whatever the cost, the huge transfers involved to enable strong industries to make higher and higher profits while displacing workers, the millions going over to mining companies that have reduced employment while increasing thenprofits, the elimination of every vestige of wealth taxes, and here we are still in hock, and we find that the pensioners of this country cannot even get the kind of justice that they were promised and repromised over a period of three years. 
One has to admire the courage of those members on the other side of the House who do in a sense stand up against Government strategy particularly in relation to the situation of pensioners, but the fact is that they are caught in a party which has more people on  Mr Fraser  's side than on their side. Too many people on the Government side have no feeling for what a couple of dollars means to a battler and to a pensioner. They have no sense of the incredible effect which, for example, the massive increases in food prices in the December quarter have on the pensioner or on people who have to decide on how many days of the week they might eat meat, when on not one of those days win it be steak. They have no sense of what it means to miss out on a show, a drink in a pub or a holiday at the beach. They have no feeling for the people on low incomes who have supported kids at school and often have battled to give them what they thought would be a good start, only to see them unemployed. 
In 1971 the Prime Minister said that we had had generations of Australians who had not known what it meant to live in a rugged society. Our difficulty at the moment, and it is a difficulty of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  is that we have a Prime Minister who also has never known what it means and who, on the whole, surrounds himself with people who again do not know what it means. It is that which the pensioners in my electorate and in other 
Labor electorates know about the Prime Minister. He is not and never will be, one of them, and in no sense will he ever understand what that which he sees as a small amount of money can mean to people on marginal incomes. In saying all this I do not want to suggest that there are not people of empathy on both sides of the House or that we do not have people of conscience here. The reality is that we are all, to a greater or lesser extent, caught up in this isolated and classbound institution, making decisions with little feeling for their impact on people. The honourable member for Franklin, in his last speech on the issue, said that he was, and always would be, a member of the Liberal Party. I  .uy  to him - 
Order! The level of conversation in the chamber is far too high. I am surprised that the honourable members on my left seem so uninterested in the remarks of their colleague. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission of Victoria receives Federal funds? Is it also a fact that in 1977 the Commission made a loan in the vicinity of $250,000 to a pastoral family at concessional rates of interest? Was the money loaned under the general financing power of the Commission or was it loaned under the rural adjustment provisions? Was the loan made to members of the Beggs family, including the Prime Minister's wife? 
-The facts which underlie the series of questions which were asked in the House this morning are as follows: Under the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act 1976, the Commonwealth Government allocates to the States for rural reconstruction money for marginal farms. It was made quite clear - 
I was saying that funds are made available by the Commonwealth to the States for purposes of assistance to marginal farmers. In 1977-78, $9.6m was made available to Victoria. Disbursement in Victoria is administered by the 
Rural Finance and Settlement Commission, which was established under a 1961 Act of the Victorian Parliament. The Commission took over a number of early rural relief bodies, such as the Soldier Settlement Commission and the Rural Finance Corporation. The Commission is empowered to make loans to primary producers at an interest rate designed to cover the cost of borrowing and administration. Loans are usually made over the longer term. As at October last year, the interest rate was 9.5 per cent per annum and repayments were to be made over 20 years. 
In administering funds provided under special arrangements, such as for flood, fire and drought relief, the Commission follows principles set out by government or follows terms of agreement between governments. Generally, the Commission does not see itself as being in competition with existing financial institutions serving Victoria. It is a businesslike, complementary lender, enjoying considerable rapport with and support from these institutions. For some funds limits are imposed without special approval from either State or Federal Ministers. For practical purposes, limitations are imposed on the quantity of funds made available and on the need to spend those funds as widely and equitably as possible. The Rural Finance Corporation Act 1958, which has wide objectives of improving country production, provides that 'interest on any loan shall be as low as possible' and, unless the Treasurer approves otherwise, the loan will be not greater than $20,000. We all know that the Treasurer of Victoria is the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer.  Loans made are secured by mortgage. The mortgage does not specify the amount of the loan or the interest rate as these matters are dealt with in a letter of offer from the Commission. 
On 26 August 1977 two mortgages were entered into by the Commission over blocks of land totalling 4,000 acres. This is not a small farm to be consolidated; I think that honourable members would agree that a farm of 4,000 acres is a considerable property in the Western District. The proprietors of the land are Sandford Robert Beggs, Tamara Fraser, Eda Ritchie and Christina Hindhaugh, all daughters of Sandford Robert Beggs, Hugh Sandford Beggs, Margaret May Beggs, whose address is Bowral, New South Wales- I will come back to that- and Arthur Ricardo Beggs. The land is held in unequal proportions. The mortgage then is a mortgage between the Commission and those people. It is clearly a mortgage which has the approval of the State Treasurer. It is certainly a mortgage for a six-figure sum- we believe an amount of the order of $250,000. 
The significance of these facts is clear. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  suggested this morning, the Commission is in the business not of supporting large landholders but of supporting poor and marginal farmers, of assisting with rural adjustment and of helping people whose farms have failed to get out. The Commission clearly lends its funds not at normal commercial interest rates but at special interest rates. So it should, because the prime objective of the legislation is not to help major landholders but to help poor and marginal farmers. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has repeatedly expressed his concern about the effects of interest rates on just such people. We believe that the facts of this situation reflect on the concern which the Prime Minister has often shown. We believe that the questions and the issues are relevant to the whole matter of pecuniary interests and not only are members of parliament involved but also are members of the families of members of parliament involved in such a way that it is possible that conflicts of interest might arise. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that the loan to which I referred- a loan totalling a six-figure amount- has received the approval of the Premier of Victoria. This is not something which has simply been decided upon by the Commission, which is what the Prime Minister's statement suggested; it involves a decision made by the Premier of Victoria. Finally, I shall quote, from the brochure which is issued by the Commission, the terms under which loans are to be made by the Commission. It states: 
The borrower is required to reside on and work the property as a full time occupation, except in the case of an undeveloped farm, where it may be necessary in the initial stages to do some work off the farm. 
Quite clearly, at least one but perhaps more of the people involved in this mortgage are not currently living in Victoria or are not likely to be in the situation described. So it would seem to me that these facts raise a number of questions which I do not not believe have been answered by the Prime Minister's statement. They raise questions which touch on the credibility of this Government and on the credibility of the Prime Minister and which have quite serious implications concerning, for example, the Premier of Victoria. I thank you for your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer: Is it a fact that a limit of $20,000 was set by the Commonwealth for disaster relief funds for each farmer affected by the Gippsland floods in 1978? Did any means test apply to those loans? 
-In defending the Government on this matter of public importance and the issues that arise from it the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  hides, on the one hand behind the suggestion that one can break up this money between various acts and between the Commonwealth and the States and, on the other hand, behind the statement that one can trust a particular commission. He said that the Rural Finance Commission of Victoria comprises honourable people and that, therefore, is all that needs to be said. In Victoria, for a long time there has been a tendency for politicians to hide behind commissions. I believe that the questioning process which we have been involved in in this House looks at the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States; at the relationships between various types of legislation which concern relief payments; at the purposes of that legislation; and at what in fact has happened in practice. This matter of public importance seeks to suggest that the Government's administration of Federal legislation, its relationship with the relevant State legislation and the commissions which administer that legislation require a great deal of examination. 
One constant theme runs through both the relevant Commonwealth and State legislation and the guidelines governing the operations of the Rural Finance Commission of Victoria. Where funds are being provided under the relevant Federal legislation or State legislation through that Commission the funds ought to be provided to primary producers who do not have normal access to the usual sources of finance from banking and other commercial financing institutions. That proposition runs right through the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act which the Minister has just been discussing. One could go through each section of that Act and one would find almost the same words repeated. In the documents of the Rural Finance Commission one finds the same sort of emphasis as is contained in the Act. In its reports it has placed emphasis on the fact that priority in terms of lending ought to go to people for whom there is no reasonable alternative. If one looks at the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to the administration of disaster relief, again the same thing is said. Loan assistance will be given on concessional terms to primary producers to enable them to get back into operation when finance is not available from other sources. 
In all the relevant legislation in terms of the guidelines that govern the operation of the Commission and in terms of its own annual reports, again and again this proposition is asserted. This priority is asserted. It is that priority which the Federal Government has failed to pursue in its relationship with the States. It is that priority which the Victorian Government has failed to pursue in relation to its own Commission. It is just not good enough for the Minister for Primary Industry to come in here and say that we are casting aspersions on the Commission. Our attack is not on the Beggs family. Our attack is not on the Commission. Our attack is on governments which have failed to honour their legislation. They have failed to administer programs in accordance with their aims and in accordance with their own legislation. 
It is not true, as the Minister attempted to suggest, that we are concerned to reduce funds for disaster relief. We are concerned about the equitable distribution of the funds that are available. I believe that what we have established in terms of the facts that have already been uncovered in this case study of power is that funds are not distributed equitably, that in fact the treatment that was given to a particular family in the Western District was certainly not given to the families in Gippsland. We have established that a distinction exists between various programs. One can see that quite clearly in terms of the average amount of money that was paid to individual farmers. For example, in Gippsland the dairy farmers who suffered bushfire damage received an average of $4,000. In the Western District the average was $12,000. Over and above that average of $ 12,000 we find that this particular family and company that we are considering received two amounts of money amounting to $100,000. 1 repeat that the average loan was $12,000. We have to add to that the fact that the State Electricity Commission, after an exhaustive inquiry, reached an out of court settlement with the Beggs family which resulted in a payment which we believe to be about $180,000. The family received $280,000 of public money. It paid 4 per cent interest on one amount of $50,000 and 10.5 per cent on the other amount of $50,000. 
Our argument is not that money ought not to be distributed but that the money should not be allocated on that kind of scale, especially when one thinks of the number of small dairy farmers across this nation who have been forced out of business because they could not get their hands on cheap money. I am reminded also of the small factories in Northcote that have gone out of business and of the massive number of unemployed because people are paying interest rates of 1 2 per cent, 14 per cent and 15 per cent for money to keep their businesses going but they still fail. What we are talking about is equity. The Government's policy is said to be equitable. It is written into the legislation and it is certainly written into the charter of the Rural Finance Commission of Victoria. Equity has not been pursued in practice. If one questions who is responsible for the lack of equity, one realises that it is the responsibility of governments. The Federal Government and the Victorian Government are responsible in this respect. 
When the Bill we are discussing was introduced in 1976 the Opposition said that a board ought to be established to supervise the distribution of funds. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  pointed strongly to the fact that rural funds constantly were being distributed in an equitable manner. We raised that issue then and we raise it now. This is not an afterthought. It is a consistent theme of the Opposition that this kind of assistance ought to be provided on an equitable basis. 
I want to move quickly to consider some of the circumstances in relation to the money received by Nareeb Nareeb. We ought to recognise the scale of this property. This is not a little farmlet; this is not a hobby farm: It is 12 square miles of prime grazing land in the Western District. It would have to be worth about $5m. What rot it is to suggest that people with that kind of property could not raise $50,000 from normal lending institutions. What rubbish! No one believes that a family of that standing with property of that scale could not raise that kind of money. That is what we are being asked to believe, and we are being asked to believe it when we know that the State Electricity Commission carried out an inquiry and awarded in the order of $180,000 for damages suffered. So this poor family received $280,000 and we are told by the Government that this is equitable treatment. 
What about the involvement of the Premier of Victoria? I suggest that the Premier of Victoria, who says he is not responsible, has another look at section 38 of the Victorian legislation because it contains an interesting sentence which states that any loan made under this part shall not be less than $40 together with the amount of any other loan made by the Corporation to the same borrower and not repaid. That means that if $100,000 was obtained from the Commission it was the responsibility of the Premier. This morning the  Chairman  of the Commission, on whom I certainly cast no aspersions, said that the relevant section was section 35 and not section 38. Honourable members should have a look at section 35 which also shows that the Premier is responsible. 
I put it to this House that the Premier is involved very closely with the Fraser family and the Beggs family. This was established last week. There is an inter-relationship between these families which, in many respects, along with many other large landholders, form the basis of the power of the Liberal Party in the Western District. Not a farmer in the Western District believed the Premier when he appeared on  PM  and said that he had never heard of the Beggs family. Certainly nobody in this House believes that. It is my belief that the Premier certainly was misleading whoever was listening to that program, if not directly lying. 
We can go a little further and move to other questions. Why was this cheap money made available? Alternative sources certainly were available. The family received a considerable amount of money from the SEC. The Minister for Primary Industry pointed out that this type of money would not be provided under Commonwealth legislation. Reference has been made to debt reconstruction loans. For God's sake, it is absolutely incredible to suggest a debt reconstruction loan for a family worth $5m. That money in fact was given by the Premier of Victoria, through the State Government, to this family with no strings attached and with no criteria involved. It is because of this relationship that exists between these two families that we have raised this matter in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Was the national meeting of the Chairmen of the State Committees of the Community Youth Employment Support Scheme held in Melbourne on 27 October 1978. 
If so, did the State Chairmen, on the basis of widespread consultations with the staff and local committees of such schemes, all report the existence of widespread dissatisfaction with the unduly restrictive nature of the guidelines adopted in June 1978. 
Did the State Chairmen agree on recommendations to him for the further revision of the guidelines to remove the more restrictive clauses. 
Will he make a statement to the House outlining the objections that have been made to the existing guidelines and indicating what changes he intends to make. 
-One hesitates to participate in a debate with the pretentious title of 'The Geo-political Situation- A Pattern of Instability'. However, it would seem that the rather ponderous and heavy, if not weighty, words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  require at least some comment, if not a reply. The speech commented initially on the broader scenario, with some observations on the relationship between economic and political reality, and I use that word advisedly. I am not sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would wish to deal with anything less substantial. He went on to make the distinction between economic and political issues as they relate to foreign affairs, assuring the House that power will continue to be the main arbiter in international affairs. Whilst again that sounds like an important statement, I should have thought it to be fairly meaningless. I assume that economic relations are but one dimension of power politics, and when the Minister speaks about economic interdependence he is simply using the modern jargons for describing imperialism. Clearly, nations do not deal with each other on an equal basis, and the possibility of one state or one interest dominating another flows primarily, in my belief, from an imbalance in economic resources. Thus, if one considers which nations in the world are militarily the most powerful, clearly the distribution of economic wealth is one of the major determinations on the list. The Minister preceded his reference to power as the main arbiter with the words:   . . as long as the world is organised on a system of sovereign states. 
I am not sure that that preface helped the conclusion very much. I should have thought that much of his subsequent argument was based on the premise of there being power blocs which override the interests of sovereign states. Of course, that is somewhat confused by the fact that although our Foreign Minister no doubt has pretensions to being an objective political scientist in the mould of a Kissinger or a Brezezinski, he is a Liberal politician in a Tory party. It was therefore necessary for him to put forward a onesided view of the world that sees the Soviet bloc as being responsible for most of the evil in the world and ignore the points that might be made by power theorists enjoying the independence of university chairs who can talk about the various sides of the equation. 
The two principal situations that the Minister discussed, both of which are described as being geo-politically critical, are set out in terms of the imperialistic ambitions of the Soviet Union. In neither situation does one see mentioned the mistakes of the other great power bloc in this simplistic world of geo-political theorists. Thus, in the South East Asian situation, where currently there exist conflicts between Kampuchea and Vietnam and between Vietnam and China, we are told simplistically, if impressively, that the conflicts reflect and were created by the hostility and rivalry existing among four States- the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. Those powers do seem to be the ones most directly involved in the conflict, but to explain the tragic situation which exists there in such simplistic terms clearly insults the intelligence of the Parliament and certainly the intelligence of the Opposition. 
The struggle of countries in this region to achieve effective independence goes back for centuries, but in recent history the failure of European imperialistic powers to recognise the importance and significance of indigenous movements must represent a major cause of the present conflict. In the Minister's terms, it was clearly in the United States' geo-political interests, after the conclusion of that notorious and infamous war in Vietnam and Cambodia, to provide massive resources to rebuild Vietnam on the basis that that would be the only way to lessen the dependence of that country on either the Soviet Union or China. Australia, which is facing a massive problem in its relations with the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations with regard to refugees, had a similar interest. On the whole, despite some high sounding words, the United States and its allies such as Australia left Vietnam to rot. The result is that Vietnam has been drawn into a struggle between China and the Soviet Union in which her own national interests ought not to be at stake. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  pointed out, it was in the interests of the United States and Australia for Vietnam to be the Yugoslavia of South East Asia. Austrafia and the United States turned their backs on that possibility. 
The Foreign Minister, presumably to quieten the National Country Party and the troglodytes on his own front and back benches, has made a similar analysis of the situation in Iran. Whilst the Minister has admitted that the Shah's regime collapsed through internal causes, nevertheless the dreaded Marxist influences are at work in the region, which he asserts is of great strategic importance to the Soviet Union. No doubt that is true enough, but not a sentence appears on the significance of American military sales to Iran, which must have contributed greatly to regional instability in both Iran and the neighbouring countries with which America trades arms. As part of the Nixon doctrine, it was argued that America might achieve her role as a stabiliser in world affairs by providing arms for regions of instability where order might be maintained by a subservient regime such as that of the Shah without the blood of a single American soldier being spilt. Although I do not have recent figures, a 1976 report of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee suggested that the United States sold more arms to the Shah than any other country. Military sales were valued at $524m in 1973, $3.91 billion in 1974, $2.6 billion in 1975, and $ 1 .3 billion in 1 976. Whilst the United States recognised- and this was referred to constantly in debates in the United States Congress- all of the weaknesses and all of the problems associated with what must be regarded as an extremely repressive regime, whilst it recognised all of the difficulties and the inherent instability related to that regime, nevertheless the United States shipped something of the order of $10 billion worth of arms to the Middle East and to Iran in particular. 
If we are going to get information in debates in this House, if we are going to be in a real position to make an assessment of the international situation that is not based simply on the prejudices of one side or the other, then it would seem to me that a responsible and intelligent Foreign Minister, in making an assessment of the geo-political situation, would refer to the fact that Iran was very much the subject of American influence and aid and that the American contribution was of the order that I have suggested. The importance of that point can be emphasised if one reads on further in the Minister's speech. He made several rather trite observations about the world, observations such as the countries he has been describing not being of marginal significance, that instability is infectious, that the events occurring now may endanger agreement on the second Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty, and finally that all these conflicts are occurring in Third World countries. Those are all truisms. 
The Minister went on to make what can be described only as an absolutely brilliant observation. He said that this rise of conflict coincides with United States restraint. I find that observation absolutely impossible to deal with. The United States invested billions of dollars in the war in Indo-China. It involved its troops in a conflict in Vietnam which used more fire power in one of the smallest countries in the world than was used in the whole of the Second World War. 
It involved itself in that way and, as one of the consequences of that involvement, Vietnam has been drawn into what might be described, in the Minister's terms, as a geo-political conflict between the Soviet Union and China. Yet the Minister said that that situation is a consequence of or is related to the restraint of the United States. To take the other major situation with which he dealt, that is, the situation in the Middle East, the United States made the kind of investment I have just described in terms of a relationship with a single country in the Middle East. It shipped that volume of arms and it did so within the context of what can be described only as a major shift in foreign policy, America having moved from the earlier Dulles-Rusk doctrines in relation to direct intervention in foreign wars and containment in South East Asia to the Kissinger position and the Nixon doctrine whereby it would provide the raw materials for regionalised conflict but would not become involved directly. Events in Iran have turned in a way which cannot possibly be seen to be within the control of United States interests. 
It seems to me that what we see recognised in Vietnam is the end of a particular thrust of United States policy. We see the failure of that policy in Vietnam. We are living with the consequences of that failure in terms of the current conflict. If we look at the Middle East we see the failure of the Kissinger doctrine and the failure of the Nixon doctrine- the transfer of massive amounts of arms to a country so that American soldiers are not involved in a conflict, and so that if a conflict occurs it is the responsibility of the people who are more directly involved whilst the real responsibility in many respects lies with American policy and American interests. If the current situation in the Middle East worsens then one will not simply look at the particular parties that are involved in that conflict but will look at the thrust of American policy and the significance of that policy. 
In my view there is not much evidence of an Australian policy in the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The previous  speaker  in this debate talked about being puzzled as to the Labor Party's view of the current conflict or the Labor Party's view on how Australia should approach the situation of instability which undoubtedly exists. Indeed, this instability has existed for a long time in the world. The instability which we see reflected in Vietnam certainly goes back to the 1930s. The instability which is reflected in the Middle East similarly goes back for a very long time. So we are dealing againnot for the first time- with the problem of instability in the world. After reading the Minister's statement, it seems to me that one does not see much sign of positive policies with respect to that situation. It may be that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is relying very heavily on the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who is sitting at the table, to persuade Cabinet to increase defence expenditure to the point where Australia can play a much stronger military role within the world. If that is the case, it is certainly not spelt out in the speech. 
One can draw attention to one or two facts which I think throw some light on Australian foreign policy and its implications for this region. I draw attention particularly to the double standard in our foreign policy- our outright condemnation of Vietnam in relation to Kampuchea. We moved swiftly to withdraw aid. There is no question of where we stand on that particular issue. No matter how much distaste we might have for the Government of Kampuchea, Vietnam cannot go running in there without us taking the strongest action. We withdrew the piffling $2m a year we paid in aid. But in the case of East Timor, where Australia's interests are directly at stake and where a country was overrun by its neighbour- we do not have any particular distaste for East Timor but we have a considerable fear of Indonesia- we were very silent indeed. We did not make our opposition clear. I want to say that foreign policy needs to be based not simply on geo-political interests, whatever that may mean, and not on global strategies but on identification with the interests of particular communities. 
I support the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  in terms of understanding communities rather than the abstract approach reflected in the Minister's speech. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment whether it is a fact that the Government is in the process of reviewing each of the existing Commonwealth Acts covering environmental protection. Is it the intention of the Government, following the completion of these secret reviews, to instruct the Minister to introduce amending legislation to each of the Commonwealth environmental protection Acts with the intention of weakening the existing legislation? If so, will the Minister table the submissions made to him by mining and other interests to allow for public comment and discussion in advance of any legislation being submitted to the Parliament? Why has the Government chosen to ignore the current investigations and hearings into environmental legislation and administration being carried out by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation? 
It does the House well to remember that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was running for office in 197S he did not mince matters. He did not go into any kinds of vagaries when he announced to the Australian people that it would be possible for a Liberal-National Country Party government to achieve an immediate change of direction, to restore growth rates immediately and to get the economy moving again in a way that it had not been moving over the previous three years. The reality is that during the period of office of this Government- it is now 316 years- growth rates have been at half the level that they were when the Labor Government was in office. 
As the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  indicated, the deficits have been substantially higher than the total deficit while Labor was in office. It was suggested in 1975 that there would be an end to deficit budgeting and that we would be able to balance the Budget, not at some time in the future but immediately. But what do we see under this Government? We see ever-increasing deficits each year and we see the country being driven further and further into hock. We see the policies of this Government driving the unemployment rate in this country to heights greater than is has been since the Great Depression. 
Unemployment is not simply a welfare matter that is irrelevant to the whole question of productivity and the question of getting the economy moving; it is integrally related to the problems of Budget deficits. It is because during this Government's period of office we have had more idle resources in this country than at any other time in the country's history, that we have had the deficit problems that are forcing Australia this year into what can be described only as a mounting fiscal crisis. This Government is going to be confronted with more budgetary problems this year than perhaps any other government when framing a Budget in the post-war period. The reason for that has little or nothing to do with what may or may not have happened  3lA  years ago. But it has everything to do with the way in which the Government has mismanaged and mishandled the Australian economy in the period in which it has been in office. 
It has been estimated that since the Fraser Government came to power in 1975, revenue forgone as a result of increasing unemploymentunemployment rose from 266,000 in November 1975 to 494,000 in January 1979- amounts to more than $2 billion. That is revenue forgone simply as a result of idle resources. We on this side of the House believe that resources are not abstract; they represent the people of this country who are being sacrificed by this Government for the sake of its own interests and for the sake of its own power. That is a cost to revenue of $2 billion as a result of those idle resources. One can add to that amount, $ 1,000m- another billion dollars- this year which the Government will have to pay out in unemployment benefit, and extremely mean rates of benefit they are too. This too will contribute very little to productivity and to the growth of the Australian economy. 
This Government has been a recessive government which has driven the country into a recession which is having massive welfare consequences. That essentially has been the theme of the matter that the Opposition has raised today in relation to taxation. On the one side we have a government which is cutting back the real standards of living of workers and, perhaps even more seriously, cutting back the real standards of living of people who are outside the work force. That was the significance of the decision in relation to the non-indexation of pensions, a firm promise by the Government enunciated in 1975, repeated in 1977 and supported by the backbenchers of this Government. It was also supported by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)- 
It is not. I think that when we are speaking about taxation we need to look at the revenue implications of the kinds of taxation policies that have been introduced by this Government. So we have these cutbacks to which I have referred. One can look at the whole area of pensions. One can look at what has happened in terms of national housing policy and the attempt to eliminate welfare housing. One can look at the kinds of cutbacks that have occurred in almost every public sector activity that affects the welfare of average people. 
One must also look at the other side of the ledger. Let us look at what this Government has been doing in relation to taxation. The reality of the situation is that the Government, after announcing and firmly committing itself to policies which would have reduced the overall effect of taxation on the average wage and salary earner and particularly on the lower income groups, has not been able to get the economy moving. It has not been able to manage the economy effectively. It has not been able to produce the goods it promised in 1975. Therefore it has been forced to increase taxation. But it has done so, not in an equitable way, not in a fair way, and that is the point that we on this side of the House have been making. We are not advocating increases in taxation, but what we are advocating is a much fairer taxation system which distributes income from those who can afford to pay to those who cannot afford to support themselves fully and who are, one way or another, either directly or indirectly, dependent on government revenue. 
Let us look at the evidence in terms of the impact of the taxation scales that were introduced by this Government in relation to this Budget. The evidence is there in black and white, it is not evidence that has to be dreamed up or interpreted. It exists. I refer honourable members to the research done by the Applied Economics and Social Research Institute of Melbourne University. That Institute has drawn up tables that show the effects of taxation proposals as involved in this year's Budget, including the tax surcharge. What that Institute says, and what it says quite clearly, is that for people with incomes below $12,000, the increase in taxation is quite massive- 22 per cent. So that is an increase of 22 per cent in the case of people with incomes of around $7,500. For people with incomes of around $ 1 0,000, the increase is 1 4 per cent. But if one looks at the other end of the scale, the end of the scale occupied by so many people on the front bench of the other side of the House, there is a negative increase, in fact a real decrease of- 1.2 per cent for people with incomes over $30,000. It is simply not good enough for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to come into this House and say: 'Well the scales themselves are already progressive. One cannot add a further progressive note in relation to a surcharge'. Well of course one can. The purpose of introducing a surcharge rather than re-arranging the taxation scales was in fact to redistribute the burden towards those on the lower incomes, those who have suffered most from cutbacks in terms of their wages and incomes and in terms of the money that has been paid to them through pensions and allowances would suffer the most. 
It seems to me that there would be no argument that this Government has been thoroughly regressive in its approach to taxation policy. All the suggestions are that in this year's Budget we will see even more aggressive taxation. We are going to see an even further shift of taxation across from the productive wealth of the conomy to the lower income people, people who have already had their incomes damaged by the reduction in the social wage that has been effected by this Government. 
One of the themes that was emphasised by the Government and certainly by the Prime Minister when he was campaigning in 1975 and again in 1977 was that this Government, whatever else it might be able to do, would introduce some certitude to the economy in Australia. It would make predictions more possible. One would be able to look at the Budget Speech of the Treasurer and one would then be able to say something about what was really going to happen in the year ahead. I guess that certainly in the Budget Speech there is certainty as regards taxation. It is quite clear that what has happened in terms of taxation is just as regressive as the Budget Speech and the Budget tables suggested it would be. 
One can look also at predictions in the Budget Speech in relation to the money supply and in relation to levels of inflation. Much has been made in this House of the Government's success in relation to inflation, yet what do we see? We see inflation in Australia running well above the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average rate. This year inflation will be running at a rate of between 10 per cent and 12 per cent. So this Government, which claims so much in terms of introducing a degree of certainty into the Australian economy, is in fact running itself into a situation whereby there is more and more uncertainty and people cannot predict safely what will happen in the future. They do not know what the levels of inflation are going to be later this year. They do not know what is going to happen in relation to the money supply. They do not know what is going to happen in terms of our balance of payments which are now in a situation worse than they have been for many years. They do not know what is going to happen in terms of unemployment which even the former Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations predicted could well reach levels of 10 per cent in the early 1980s. 
In fact more and more uncertainty is being generated in the community, not because of anything that might be said by members on this side of the House, but because this Government has not been able to produce what it said it was going to produce. When this Government came to office there was no question of there being doubts; there was no question of looking for policies. The Government said: 'We have the answer to productivity. We will put money into investment allowances and you will see the productive engines of this economy moving'. Well, that has not happened. A lot of the money that has gone into investment allowances has gone straight out of the country. It has gone to those overseas manufacturers who made the equipment which was brought to Australia and it has not stimulated employment within Australia. 
Since the 1972-75 period this Government has introduced a change of direction of income transfers and taxation. They are moving in a reverse direction. The inequities and inequalities which exist in this society are being more and more reinforced. The Opposition has not done what the former Leader of the Opposition, the now Prime Minister, did prior to 1975. When he became the Leader of the Opposition he was asked what he would do about the economy when he came to power. Did he say that he would introduce this allowance and that allowance and put surcharges on taxation and whatever? No. He said: When I have control of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank then I will tell you what I will do. The Prime Minister was as dishonest then as he is now. He refused to tell the Australian people what he was going to do because he wanted to achieve power and was prepared to do this in any way that he could. He certainly was not going to tell the Australian people honestly what he was going to do. 
The Opposition has been extremely honest in its approach to its role as an opposition. It has not only criticised the Government and suggested that its policies are not working in specific directions and indicated in detailed ways what might be the social impact of particular policies but it has also begun to sketch out an alternative direction to the Australian people. In respect to the alternative direction of taxation the Opposition has suggested that Australia should have- as every other country in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development group has- some form of taxation of capital gains. Every other OECD country has this but the Australian Parliament has not had the opportunity to consider legislation that would enable that kind of development to be encouraged in Australia. This development is not revolutionary or radical but it would bring us into line with other OECD countries. We recognise that as our economy is geared more and more towards exploiting the wealth of our limited natural resources it is not unreasonable that a resource rent tax ought to be paid on some of the excessive profits. Excessive profits are made by some mining and energy operations. They ought to be brought into the equation and redistributed to the Australian people and used to create jobs in the cities of this country in which there is so much unemployment. It is unreasonable to talk about making the tax scales more progressive. We are not trying to hide anything; we are trying to suggest to the Australian people what our policies are 18 months before they will have the opportunity to vote. I believe that the Australian people will recognise that at least the Labor Party is on about a fair deal and helping the ordinary wage or salary earner to get equality for his dollar and not have it ripped off him by tax scales that are extremely inequitable. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I think that the previous  speaker  has indicated the growing concern that is being experienced on the government side of the House with respect to the ability of this Government to manage the economy. It does not take a very good memory to recall the certainty with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his senior men spoke when in Opposition in 1975. There was no question that it would be not three years or four years before the economy would be back on the right track, but a matter of months. They thought that unemployment would be reduced, inflation would be restrained, public sector expenditure would be reined in and all the problems that the Australian economy faced would be resolved. I think members of the government side are beginning to recognise that the problems that 
Labor faced in 1973-74 were not simply problems of a domestic economy but were problems of the whole capitalist world. 
In that period all countries within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development faced similar problems including rising inflation, rapidly rising unemployment, managing public sector spending, deficits and so on. It is good that members such as the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  are beginning to recognise that perhaps in certain respects one has to think again and to look at what the Government is actually doing. One has to look at the Government's performance and to look for alternative strategies. I do not suggest for one moment that I would want to throw my support behind any of the strategies that he has mentioned. 
For example, the honourable member for Moore talked about the need for the Government to concentrate its welfare spending in relation to the very poor. That is a fine sentiment. No doubt there are people on both sides of the House who would agree with that sentiment. But the reality is that the Fraser Government introduced the much vaunted family allowance which is costed in the Budget at something of the order of $ 1,000m a year. That family allowance was introduced  with  a promise that it would not be means tested. It is one of the promises upon which the Fraser Government no doubt believes itself to have been elected. Yet now people such as the honourable member for Moore suggest that that kind of strategy needs to be changed. That is incredibly inconsistent. I think it indicates that there are growing contradictions between various members on the government side of the House about the Government's economic priorities, about the direction that it is taking. Fears are beginning to emerge that this Government is running into a situation which very soon will prove to be electorally disastrous. The Government is reaching a situation in which all the promises it made so firmly 15 months ago and two years prior to that, are going very rapidly down the drain. The Government is looking more and more out of control. 
In relation to the Bills before us- as the previous  speaker  from this side of the House suggested- we can see something of the priorities of this Government. We can see the areas upon which the Government is chopping back. They are critical areas in terms of welfare priorities. 1 refer to legal aid, employment programs such as the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice FullTime Training, a 50 per cent cut in the homeless persons program and cutbacks in money for handicapped persons programs. There are cutbacks in funds for home care services. On the other side of the ledger we see the Government expanding funding for Ministers to go on overseas trips and for the purchase of VIP aircraft. In a peripheral way that perhaps indicates the priorities of this Government. They are priorities which have been written into several Budgets and will certainly be written into this year's Budget. Ultimately they are priorities upon which the electorate will make a judgment. Tonight I want to refer particularly to housing policy. In its last Budget the Government made a substantial cut to the funds available to the States for the construction of housing. The cut was of the order of 2 1 per cent. In money terms it was a cut from $390m to $330m. In addition, the Government scrapped the housing allowance voucher experiment which it had made much of for something like two years previously and spent a great deal of money on. It was to be introduced within Victoria. The Government chopped back on funds for the home savings grants scheme, resulting in the deferment of payment to thousands of people eligible to receive the grant within this financial year. These people were told that they would not be able to receive the grant within this financial year because of Budget cuts. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  answered a question today at Question Time which was obviously a Dorothy Dixer. The purpose of the question was to give the Minister an opportunity to say how well the Government was doing, particularly in relation to the State of Victoria. The Minister said that what one could say about Victoria was that it had the highest rate of home ownership of any State in Australia, and perhaps in the world. Using a sporting analogy, as members of the Government increasingly seem to be doing, he described Victoria as the Mohammed Ali of housing, the world champion in terms of its performance on housing, particularly in relation to home ownership rates. Interestingly enough this claim is one about which the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has also made great play. He said recently that eight out of every 10 Victorian families live in homes of their own. There is no evidence to support this assertion. Both the Housing Industry Association and the Australian Bureau of Statistics state that the census figures, based on the most accurate data available, indicate that 69.5 per cent of the private dwellings in Victoria are owned or being purchased- not 7 1 per cent and certainly not eight out of every 10, but 69.5 per cent. 
One needs to look at that as that percentage relates to houses owned or being purchased. If one makes a distinction in terms of who actually owns the homes and what is the rate of home ownership one finds that Queensland in fact has the highest rate of home ownership in Australia at 34.5 per cent. Victoria had a home ownership rate of 32.6 per cent in 1976 and New South Wales was very close behind with a figure of 32.4 per cent. So Victoria is actually behind Queensland in terms of dwellings owned. The combined figure for dwellings owned and being purchased in Victoria in 1 976 was 69.5 per cent. Tasmania, with a figure of 68.4 per cent, and South Australia with a figure of 67.7 per cent, followed close behind. So Victoria in fact is in a comparable position to Tasmania and South Australia if one thinks in terms of people who actually own their own homes or are purchasing their own homes. 
Of course, behind these home ownership figures are rather more serious realities that have to be faced. For a very long time it was assumed in Australia that most people and perhaps ultimately the whole of the population would be able to reach a home ownership position. One of the points that the Minister made today in answer to the question was that home ownership was in fact increasing in Australia, particulary in Victoria. He took the figure for Victoria in 1 947 of 52.7 per cent home ownership and he said that it had gone up to more than 70 per cent. If one looks at more recent figures- say at the 1966 census figures- rather than going that far back one can get some sense of the more recent trends. The Minister was quite clear about that. He said: 
I cannot understand the comments being made by people in Victoria that home ownership has been reduced in recent times. 
In 1966, 73.1 per cent of the households in Victoria owned their own homes whereas in 1976 69.6 per cent of them either owned or were in the process of purchasing their own homes. If one looks at the Australian figures for 1 966 one will see that 70.8 per cent of Australians either owned or were in the process of buying their own homes whereas in 1976, 66.6 per cent of the people were in that situation. What is the reason for that? It is not a situation in which progress has been achieved in that goal; rather we are seeing a real decline occurring, especially in Victoria. In the first place one has to say that housing and land costs have been rising at a much faster rate than average incomes. Between 1971 and 1977, land costs in Melbourne increased by 230 per centfrom approximately $4,600 in 1 97 1 to $ 1 5,200 in 1977. House costs in Melbourne increased by 116 per cent between 1971 and 1977- from $10,200 to $22,000. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Why has there been a 50 per cent cut in funds for the homeless persons program? Was this cut made necessary by a need to divert funds to homeless youth to bolster the faltering fortunes of  Mr Dixon  in the seat of St Kilda? Notwithstanding that transfer of funds, has there not been a net reduction in funds for homeless people, despite the rise in homelessness in Victoria as a result of the current recession? 
I am sure that members on this side of the House - 
I want to pay tribute to the very great scholarship displayed last night by the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  in his Economics I lecture. However, it seems to me that perhaps the honourable member for Ballarat may have occupied himself rather more fruitfully if he had directed his remarks to the problems of regional economics and particularly to the problems of the economics of the Ballarat electorate. I want to outline to the House some of the facts relevant to the economic situation in the Ballarat electorate. An indication of the present depressed state of the electorate in economic terms is evidenced by the unemployment statistics. Let me offer some of the facts. In April 1979- April of this year; last month- there were 3,665 people unemployed in the Ballarat region. Of that number, 1,958 were adults and 1,707 were juniors. There were 157 vacancies for those 3,665 people, that is, one vacancy for every 14 unemployed adults and one vacancy for every 89 unemployed juniors. The effective unemployment rate in Ballarat runs at 14.2 per cent for adults and 33 per cent for the young people for whom the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  showed considerable concern last night. That is, one in every three young people seeking employment in Ballarat is unable to find employment. The unemployment rate for Ballarat as a whole is effectively 10.5 per cent. The average length of time for which someone is unemployed within the city of Ballarat is now six months. 
It is all very well for the honourable member for Ballarat to give us a lecture on fiscal and monetary policy and to talk about the outrageous deficit levels, deficits that I might say are cumulatively far worse under this Government than they were during the whole of the Labor Government's period in office. The honourable member for Ballarat can talk in this House about national economic policy, but why does he not tell us what he as the member for Ballarat is advocating within the government parties to help the unemployed? What is he saying within the government parties about the level of unemployment benefit? In terms of the ratio of unemployment benefit to average weekly earnings, Australia has the lowest benefit of any country within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. That is what we think of our unemployed. We have 1,707 unemployed juniors in Ballarat who are receiving $36 a week, a rate that has not been changed since this Government came to power. What is the honourable member for Ballarat saying within the government parties about that level of unemployment? What is he saying about the overall economic situation of the families of those young unemployed people? It is about time that we heard more from the back bench of the Liberal Party than lectures to stiffen the Government's back bone so that it can bring in this year the kind of Budget that will make the economic situation of this country much worse and increase the number of unemployed people, as it did last year. 
Our rate of unemployment is currently more than 7 percent and we are looking at a figure of 8 per cent by the end of this year. No doubt that figure will reach 10 per cent within a decade. In Ballarat that will mean an unemployment rate of more than 10 per cent. In Ballarat it will mean an unemployment rate of 12 per cent or 13 per cent, but by that time the honourable member for Ballarat will no longer be the member. The people of Ballarat expect their member to advocate in this Parliament policies that are in the interests of unemployed people rather than going in for the abstract academic half-baked theorising that we heard last night. That will do nothing for any unemployed person in this country. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he told the Parliament on 12 September 1978 that: 
Inflation at an annual rate of 5 per cent is within our reach by mid 1979 . . . It will go on falling under the policies of this Government. 
Is that still the case? 
It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  did not devote himself to the central issues raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He did not take seriously the issue that I think ought to concern every Australian. Increasingly in the 1970s we have had the involvement of finance capital in directing resources into land programs that are not designed to make the most efficient use, the best use, the most equitable use of the land resources available in this country. There has been a great deal of speculation and thousands of people have invested money and lost it. Even more seriously, there has been an enormous change in the pattern of land ownership in this country to the point where thousands of young families are unable to achieve home ownership. This Government, which places so much emphasis on home ownership, is in fact allowing finance and capital markets to operate in such a way that that goal is being denied to more and more Australians. The honourable member for Petrie might have addressed himself to that kind of issue. Indeed, one can reflect that he is  chairman  of a committee which reported 12 months ago to this House on the way the Government might coordinate investment and capital development to the overall benefit of the environment. That report has not as yet been responded to by the Government; it still lies around unanswered. One increasingly believes that the honourable member for Petrie, who is very much on about big words, is not on about taking stands if he thinks that strong Government departments might be against what he wants to do. He is not interested in the kind of conflict which is absolutely essential if one is to wrest control of Australian cities and urban development away from interests which are certainly not inimical to the well-being of the Australian people. 
Over an extended period of time, the Labor Party has placed tremendous emphasis on the issue of spatial or locational equity. People, irrespective of where they live in Australia, have a right to expect reasonable access to the full range of community services. However, within the capitalist system, there is an inbuilt tendency towards private affluence co-existing with public squalor, the privatisation of the profits associated with the investment of capital and the socialising of the losses. Labor in government sought to tackle a range of problems that were the inheritance of the previous 23 years of Liberal Government rule. When people reflect on what Labor attempted to do when in power, I sometimes wonder what they might think if we went back and talked about the 23 years that preceded those three years of a Labor Government and the enormous backlog in problems, particularly problems affecting Australian cities that were attempted to be tackled, I believe, in a serious manner, particularly in the urban area through the then Minister and his Department. 
In 1972 land prices were rising sharply, public transport was run down to the point of breakdown, suburban housing in every major city of Australia was without sewerage. Inner city areas were either suffering from urban blight and decay or they were experiencing the early stage of gentrification where the potential capital gains of recycling older established houses were becoming increasingly obvious to the speculators and where above all Australia was facing a future without an effective public transport system at a time in which the oil price crisis was appearing as a signal that the time of the automobile as the principal form of urban transport was coming to at least the beginning of the end. 
During the 1980s all of these problems will be, to a greater or lesser extent, in existence. However, they will be intensified because of the problems inherent in unplanned cities which have been profligate in the use of land, which have been and will become even more expensive to service and which because of the uniform low densities and the extreme over-concentration of office and service facilities will be, as they are now, highly energy intensive in character at a time when energy will be much more expensive. It is difficult to imagine how there could have been created cities which would require more movement for almost all types of activities. It is impossible for people in the Australian city to avoid travel- car travel often- for almost every and any activity in which they choose to indulge, even down to the purchase of a bottle of milk. 
The effects of this dispersion of the social structure of cities has to be seen as serious with the fragmentation of people's lives resulting in the almost complete loss of any sense of local or community identity and the separation of people's lives into many segments of activity which provide little if any real basis for integration and collective purpose and which involve enormous external costs, particularly in relation to transport. Lacking in this country almost any sense or capacity to anticipate the future, we have allowed the 1960s and 1970s- particularly the late 1960s and early 1970s- to be a period of intense speculation in land and property dealings the net result of which is that we now have intensified the problems which have always been characteristic of Australian cities. The chronical of land dealings on the part of the subsidiaries of old and respected banks has been outlined to some extent by the honourable member for Reid. The new finance companies and the various shonky operators who were identified in the Victorian Government inquiry into land dealings is now well known. Governments were, in various situations, ripped off- the Victorian Government for example, to the tune of $4m. Speculation by finance capital, which had been fair game in the mining industry resulting in massive losses of funds for small shareholders in the late 1960s moved finally, in the early 1970s, into land dealings, with the result that the price of the suburban block increased by more than 100 percent in the period 1969 to 1973 in major Australian capitals. 

 Major capital gains were made and were substantially untaxed. More seriously, a change was wrought in the pattern of new home ownership with thousands of young couples seeing the land and house package moving further and further out of reach. When the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  talks about Melbourne being the home ownership capital of the world, he is just not talking sense. Since the mid-1960s home ownership in this country has been decreasing at the same rate that finance company speculation has been moving into the land dealing area forcing up the prices of land. 
This last in a series of great land booms in Australia in the early 1970s ought to have been vigorously resisted by every government in Australia concerned about the health of our economy. Funds were now moving out of the manufacturing area, which was itself moving deeper and deeper into a state of crisis. Unfortunately this was not to be the case. Liberal governments fought vigorously the so-called socialisation measure of the Federal Labor Government, resulting in lost opportunities to stabilise the price of land and direct the course of urban development along rational lines. Prominent politicians in various States, such as the Premier of Queensland, and many leading figures in the Victorian Cabinet, sought to facilitate, if not to benefit from, land speculation to assist speculators who had got in over thenheads. Even the shadow Treasurer of the then Federal Liberal opposition sought to achieve substantial gains from property transactions in Victoria and on the Gold Coast in Queensland. 
If there ever was an area of government policy in which there ought to be bipartisan commitment in a capital importing country such as Australia, it is with respect to the need to control land speculation. The great sufferers, as I have suggested, are not simply the new home buyers, the young families of this nation, but also industry, which was forced to pay higher and higher prices for industrial land in less and less convenient locations but which was unable to get from the financial sector the funds necessary for the replacement of aging capital equipment and machinery. The end result is that we now have the Government providing $ 1,000m a year to industry in the form of investment allowances, taxation concessions and subsidies, while land commissions and urban services have been cut back if not completely abolished. 
We are indeed, in this country, facing a fiscal crisis in which there are limitations of the funds . to ensure that people are able to live in a reasonable standard of housing in good locations with access to the full range of urban services and, as well, to provide to industry subsidies on that kind of scale. In politics, we have to make choices. I believe that the honourable member for Petrie indicated where he was going to make his choice and in whose favour it would be. If he has to make a choice, his choice is in favour of the speculators, his choice is in favour of the property dealings, his choice is in favour of the crooks that have been ripping off the Australian people over the last decade. He is not voting in favour of the employment of the overwhelming majority of Australians. He is not voting in favour of getting people back into the working situation. He is not voting at all in favour of home ownership, in which he is not seriously interested apart from repeating the rhetoric in this House. 
There have been numerous examples in Victoria of Liberal governments being involved almost directly within the process that I have just been describing. Ministers of the Crown have been prepared to overrule established planning practice in the interests of political parties, overruling, if necessary, government policy. With respect to developments at Sunbury, Melton and Packenham, the Gowans inquiry documented the payment of hundred of thousands of dollars to middle men who were offering no real contribution. 
Motion (by  Mr Eric  Robinson) agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of General Business, Notices, be extended until 12.4S p.m. 
For example, the proposed T. &amp; G. Insurance Group development at Mount Ridley in 1977 was given the go ahead by the Victorian Government within months of its being made clear that the Merri Creek Corridor was not, according to government policy, a preferred development area. However, quite clearly the events publicised in Victoria are but the tip of the iceberg in Australia. Across this nation, people intent on making fast money were able to make substantial profits, and sometimes substantial losses, trading in the susceptibilities of politicians and other people in authority to a deal.  Major established  banks such as the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney and the Bank of Adelaide got into serious financial difficulties because of the speculative activities of their subsidiaries and required rescuing through one way or another by the money of other people. 
The Australian Labor Party has consistently put the position that people should not be able to make money from the transfer by public authorities of land from one use to another, that the increment which arises when land is zoned from rural to residential or from residential to commercial or industrial ought to belong to the community as a whole and not be placed in the hands of speculators. This principle remains sound, as demonstrated by the experience of the land commissions in New South Wales and particularly in South Australia where there has been a long and bipartisan history of the Government's involving itself within the land sector. When the honourable member for Petrie votes against land commissions, he is arguing against  Sir Thomas  Playford, against the history of responsible government in South Australia and against people of his party and political persuasion. What honourable members have talked about in this debate is not an idle matter. It affects the well being of the families of this nation. What we have seen over periods of the Liberal Party being in office is a resistance by governments to intervene not only in terms of direct processing of land through land commissions but also in the intervention in the direction of the investment of capital so that land is assembled and so that capital is organised in such a way that people in suburban communities of this nation get a fair deal. 
In the 1 980s, with the coming energy crisis and energy price crisis, increasingly the kind of pattern in Australian cities will be seen to be catastrophic in terms of servicing costs. Already that crisis is highly apparent in California. The state government of California is moving in a myriad of ways to do something about that crisis. One sees no sign of the Liberal Government in Canberra, of the various State governments around this nation, of the honourable Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  or of the member for Petrie concerning themselves with that crisis or taking any action. If one believes that there ought to be people living in decent communities, owning their own homes and having access to services, then some of that capital that has been wasted has to be transferred back into the hands of people who want to get their own home, who want to work and who want to live in decent communities with access to the full range of services. That will become increasingly costly. It will be impossible if the Government does not do something about it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
I regret that I did not have any warning that the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  was about to give the House some advice on the question of refugee policy, so I have not had an opportunity to look at the issues involved in any detail. I think the House ought to understand the tragic situation in Vietnam, the tragic situation with respect to refugees- and there is no one on this side of the House who does not see what has happened in relation to the refugee problem as a tragic outcome. Nevertheless, one has to recognise that that situation is a direct result of the policies that were pursued by Liberal governments throughout the 1960s. It is a direct result of the inseparable identification between the LiberalNational Party and American interests and policy in Vietnam. The tens of billions of dollars that were expended by the United States in the most inhumane war in modern history has resulted in an extremely tragic situation, not simply for refugees who are leaving Vietnam but also for that country. 
If one were in charge of affairs in Vietnam one would have no other choice, given the attitudes of the American Government and the lack of response to the requests by Vietnam for assistance for reconstruction on the kind of scale that is necessary, than to see the situation that exists there as directly the responsibility of the American Government and of the LiberalNational Party Governments in Australia. Through their policies they have helped to create the tragedy that is Vietnam today. I think the House needs to recognise that. It is all very well for the honourable member for Perth to come in and speak with all this charity and concern, with all this feeling which he has displayed about the people who have left Vietnam. The reality is that those people and their situation, tragic as it is, is very much something that can be laid at the door of Australian Governments and particularly of Liberal-National Party governments which involved themselves in the most inhumane war in my understanding of modern history. It is that kind of piety that this House can do without. 
In relation to the Labor Party seeking to achieve a bipartisan position in relation to refugees, I think, on the whole, there has been very little difference. I think the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  who is listening to this debate would say that there is, in fact, very little difference in what the shadow Minister for Immigration has been saying about the way the Australian Government ought to respond to refugees and what the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  himself has been saying. The Labor Party is no less lacking in compassion with respect to refugees than is the Government. But I believe, with respect, that the Labor Party has had a much more profound understanding of what would occur in Vietnam, what did occur in Vietnam and what the consequences are for that country, The decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to withdraw what peripheral and limited aid was made available by the Australian Government because of the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia I think indicates just how superficial and how limited the appreciation of this Government is of the complexities of the relationships that have existed within Indo-China over a long period of time. 
I want to take this opportunity to endeavour to raise some of the underlying or basic issues which face this nation in terms of economic policy. As helpful as lectures may be- honourable members have been receiving several lectures during adjournment debates- to uninitiated economists, they do not assist this House to come to grips with the basic issues that face Western nations during a current world wide economic crisis. It was one thing for the Government in the first flush of victory in 1976 to claim that essentially the problems that faced this nation and the wider world were problems of economic management. The reality is that it has now been shown that we are facing a crisis throughout the whole of the Western world. That is what the Labor Party said in 1974; it is what it says now. This excludes the rest of the world, which can be classified, as the Government would see it, as ossifying under tyrannical socialist rule or as part of the Third World, which the Government tends to expect to be in a situation of perpetual crisis anyway. 
However, the reality is that there are no Western nations- with the possible exception of Sweden and Austria, which after all have the most socialist governments in the Western world- that are not currently afflicted with mass unemployment and continually high rates of inflation. Rather than being the success story that the Prime Minister likes to suggest it is, this nation is in the middle of the inflation table in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development groups, and it will be dropping down the table, or moving up the table, whichever is worse, as time goes on during this year. It is rather worse off than most OECD countries in terms of unemployment. The policies of this Government have not worked, but neither have the policies pursued by almost every other government in the so-called Western world. Clearly, the problems we face are not simply problems of economic management. They are not problems of techniques, and honourable members do not need lectures on techniques. They are problems which go deeper and which require fundamental consideration about basic social and political philosophy. 
It is difficult to be realistic, as we are often enjoined to be, when it seems that all one is surrounded with at present time, in economic terms, is uncertainty. Having a Prime Minister with the image of strength but the substance of stubborn adherance to long outdated philosophies will be of no assistance to this country. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out on Tuesday, it will lead to his embracing totally contradictory positions- a free trader in Asia and a heavy and unrepentant protectionist at home. The fact is that much of the rhetoric which is practised by the Government bears no particular relationship to any analysis of contemporary capitalism. In these days of large international combines and df large and powerful nation states, there is no such thing as free trade and open markets. One way or another there will inevitably be marketing agreements. They may be agreements between large multinational combines or they may be agreements between states. But, one way or another they are attempts to control markets and, implicitly, prices and decision-making processes. 
The causes of the crisis go much deeper than rhetoric about free trade and free competition might suggest. I believe we need to look much more seriously at the commitment of Western capitalism to growth as being solely on the basis of seeking additional profits rather than in any real sense as having its aim and purpose in meeting real human needs. I believe it can be argued that we in the West faced a crisis of overproduction, followed by a long period of booming investment in which it seemed that there was only one way to go- to grow bigger and better, to form larger and larger combines and to transcend any boundary, whether it be local, State, national or international, in search of larger and larger markets and, more importantly, larger and larger profits. It is this period of growth which is coming to a halt, if not an end. 
The factors are many and varied. The United States, the leader of the Western capitalism growth stakes, was profoundly wounded by the Vietnam war, in which billions of dollars were absorbed in destroying a country which had won its independence in 1 94S and was forced to fight for another 30 years to secure that independence from European and American interests, not Vietnamese interests, as is so often asserted. The oil crisis of 1973 followed the recognition by the Middle Eastern powers that they could not go on subsidising a Western and Japanese economic miracle forever, given the fact that for many of these countries oil was their only major asset and bargaining tool. There was a steady shift of large scale American capital from the eastern seaboard to the south and west of the United States. It then shifted off-shore and there were massive investments into the so-called developing world of the Pacific basin. The post- Vietnam emphasis on the Pacific basin mentioned by the Prime 
Minister in his remarks on Tuesday represented a new strategy for economic imperialism on the part of the United States and Japan. That was based on an economic alliance with conservative, if not reactionary, and repressive East and South East Asian governments and was formed for the purpose of moving more and more American and Japanese industry into new locations in the capital of the East and South East Asian region. 
This shift of direction of investment, necessary for Japan because of the very success of her economy, has begun to have serious effects for the United States, where there is a steady loss of jobs not so much because of innovative technology but because, of the alliance between American and Japanese capital and technical know-how, and cheap labour assisted by generous programs of support to encourage export oriented industries, very often designed to penetrate the American, European and Australian markets, where higher profits might be earned. It is this immense economic and political power of the large corporation which challenges any. government to form an effective policy. It is about time that this House received from the Government a little honesty about some of these decisions that are made and some honesty about the problems that are faced by any government in making economic decisions in the face of some of these new economic realities about which I have been speaking. 
Investment decisions are increasingly made at points quite remote from the areas where people affected are located. For example, it is clear thai the world car decision was made not by General Motors-Holden's Ltd in Australia but by the General Motors Corporation in Detroit. In easily accepting that decision, the Government was acquiescing to this reality. Despite the critical importance of this decision to thousands of workers directly and indirectly affected and despite its importance to the Australian economy, the decision to support the world car concept was made without any proper public analysis prior to the decision being made because Detroit said that a decision had to be made by a certain date, and that was it. The Australian Council of Trade Unions might ask for the facts in relation to employment. It was not going to get those facts from this Government because it does not have those facts. It did not know what the employment impact of that kind of decision would be. 
Increasingly this will be the pattern because Australian industry has become subject to the control of interests that have no interest or feeling for the people in this country. They have only a feeling and loyalty for the profit motive. We  are facing a situation where there is not a section of Australian industry which is not increasingly coming under foreign ownership and control. As the process of consolidation and the mergers have taken place and as industry has grown in Australia so, inexorably, foreign ownership and control have accompanied this process. This means we are now facing a situation where, in key industries, there is a handful of producers dominating the market. In many cases more than half of the top firms are controlled by foreign corporations. This is so in many key industries. It is true of the automobile and chemical industries, and it is true of large sections of the metal industry. However, the extent of foreign ownership is not limited to manufacturing industry. It extends to each sector of Australian industry and commerce. Of course, it is highest in the profitable mining industry, where 60 per cent of the industry is owned and controlled overseas. The figure is 85 per cent in Queensland. It extends also to the tertiary sector where increasingly, as was suggested before the suspension of sittings for lunch, finance and fringe banking institutions are coming under foreign control. 
One would have to say that on the whole the commanding heights of Australian industry are no longer within Australian hands. The difficulty is that we are confronting a critical situation where, as a nation, we have to reassess national priorities. The reality is that at a time of mass unemployment capital has been dramatically moving out of manufacturing industries thus creating overwhelming unemployment in those industries. These industries have been crucially important in the development of Australia in the post-war period. Unfortunately, they no longer happen to be the most profitable areas. Capital is mobile, it moves where bigger profits can be made. So we have the exploitation, particularly at the moment, of Australian energy resources as if there were no energy crisis in the whole damn world. What do we do? We are shipping out our coal, we are shipping out our natural gas, we are shipping out bauxite which is very largely energy and we are shipping them out at enormous profits for companies in a situation which we do not control. We do not control massive reserves, compared with Western Europe, the Soviet Union or the United States of America. 
We need to discuss this matter very seriously. We just may not have a national interest in what might be described as the most rapid development of our energy resources. Capital does have an interest in making the largest returns and the largest profits. It is capital that is determining those kinds of decisions, not governments, despite Doug Anthony's attempts to achieve guidelines. The money is not available. It is not available for investment in jobs because our resources, our scarce capital, is increasingly being used to produce cheap energy to export overseas to an increasingly energy hungry world. Let us look at that proposition. In an energy hungry world, we are selling those resources not to the developing countries, not to the countries that have not yet established industrial bases, but we are exporting those resources more and more rapidly simply to reinforce the power of the United States, Japan and the western European countries, and a few islands of very antidemocratic regimes. This Government seeks to ignore the fact that South Korea is a little more than a dictatorship; that Singapore is a country in which real democracy has not existed for a very long time. But we will support those countries in terms of industrial development because we know that they are compliant states that fit in to the United States specific base and strategy. This great concentration of power in fewer and fewer hands is subject to less and less democratic control. 
What effective control have the workers or the shareholders over the investment decisions which are made by their companies? Let us take the example of the Bank of Adelaide. There was no opportunity there for the shareholders to be involved in a decision whereby another major bank with substantial foreign equity took over the Bank of Adelaide and destroyed an institution extremely important to the South Australian economy at a time when that economy is facing extreme difficulties. Along with that situation which I have been describing, of the concentration of increasing foreign ownership and control of Australian industry, what do we have? We have the Government moving more and more to support industry. It does not say that. It talks about how industry has to become more and more self-supporting and more and more to stand on its own. What do we find in practice? We find that hundreds of millions of dollars, almost $ 1,000m, is spent on investment allowances and taxation subsidies going into Australian industry which is inevitably going to the largest firms and going essentially to foreign interests that have plenty of capital overseas. The Government is not prepared to put it into this country, into the manufacturing industry, because it has no interest in the development of this country; 
Those are some of the realities that we are going to have to deal with if we are going to be serious in this country about economic policy. We are going to have to deal with those sorts of questions and not simply talk about economic management, as if somehow there is a miraculous set of techniques, there are certain ways that we can get our hands on a few levers and in some way the economy can be put in shape. This country is in serious trouble and it is in serious trouble because the Government has no sense of what economic reality is all about in the international scene which we face. 
The final point I want to address myself to is the insensitivity of this Government in terms of the effects of its policy on people within this nation.- The Government should understand, I believe, the extreme suffering that has been caused by its recessionary economic strategy. Unemployment benefits paid in this country for young people and adults- they are paid to a great many people because there are a great many people unemployed- are amongst the lowest paid by any country in .the Western world. Those benefits are designed to get people out of a crisis in a few weeks, whereas increasingly the average length of time that people are unemployed is between six and eight months. 
The honourable member for Franklin, who is out of his place and who is interjecting over there, can say as much as he likes about getting people out of these alternative communities in which they live. There is nothing more certain than the fact that this Government is not creating anything alternative about this society unless it is creating another depression. It is creating circumstances in which decent young people who want to make a contribution to this community are not being allowed to make that contribution because there is a government in power with Fascist tendencies that supports industry with thousands of millions of dollars, but will not support the needs of those kids of this nation. This Government sent the last generation to Vietnam. It is putting this generation of young people of this nation into the dole queues in a way that we have not seen for 40 years. I believe the Government is to be condemned. It lacks any sense of compassion. It lacks any feeling for young people, for aged people or for the people whom it wants to retire early- people whom it wants to retire early in this country on the kinds of pensions and benefits that are being paid. That is absolutely absurd. 
-Did the Prime Minister yesterday excuse the latest economic decisions as proof of the Government's 'commitment to responsible economic management'? Will this commitment suffer the same fate as the many other promises which have been broken in the last  316  years? If the Government now claims it must break its promises if it is to be responsible, will the Prime Minister concede that his many promises which have been dishonoured were irresponsible in the first place? 
-Of course, it is a privilege to follow the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in this debate. One remembers that he was the first Treasurer in the Fraser Government. Most of us will remember that he was the Tresurer who was going to sort out all those problems that supposedly were inherited from the Labor Government. Inflation was to be brought down, unemployment was to be resolved- not within three or four years, but within a matter of months. This man was to be the miracle worker. Now here he is tonight as the apologist for present Government policy, which is still basically the same sort of policy as he introduced as Treasurer. The policy is still failing but it is now operating within the context of where the trends are absolutely the reverse of what the Government promised .in 1975. People around Australia who are listening to this parliamentary broadcast tonight are not particularly interested in the ancient history in which so many Government speakers have indulged. People are not particularly interested in how many runs the Australian Labor Party may have scored between 1972 and 1975, but they are very interested in the runs that this Government has been putting on the board in terms of increasing unemployment and rising inflation. People all around this nation of Australia are currently enduring hardship because of the policies of the Fraser Government. They well remember that in 1975 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  then the Leader of the Opposition, was prepared to leave no stone unturned. First of all he knifed his leader in the back, then he thrust himself into the leadership of the Liberal Party and then he went out to the country and said: 'The problems of 1973 and 1974 were not problems related to a world international economic crisis'- as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on the front bench knows. He went on: 'They were not part of the problems of world economic crisis during 1973 and 1974, but they were problems peculiar to Australia, of short run economic management.' The Prime Minister told the Australian people in 1975 that all they needed to do was to put the Liberal-National Country Party coalition into power and all would be well. The people of Australia listening to this radio broadcast know that nearly four years later things are far from well. They know what this particular miniBudget signifies. It signifies that this Government 's economic policy is now in such disarray. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo represents an electorate which is suffering severely from the recessionary policies of this Government. The people who will be voting in the next Bendigo election will be removing the honourable member who is there at the moment,  Mr Bourchier,  and they will be electing a Labor Party member because they know that the Australian Labor Party traditionally has been concerned about full employment. The Australian Labor Party has always sought to apply policies to achieve that objective. One might say that the fundamental objective of economic policy right throughout the post-war period in Australia was the creation and maintenance of full employment. There was no other objective that was regarded as more important by the Chifley Labor Government or by the subsequent Menzies Governments during the 1950s and the 1 960s. Consistently throughout that period it was affirmed by committees of economic inquiry such as the Vernon inquiry that if it was a matter of a choice between - 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, one can understand the disquiet and the concern that is being expressed at present by government members. It has been a long time in Australia's history since we have had a government that has promised so much over a period and which has delivered so little, a government that has been prepared to go to the kinds of lengths to which Malcolm Fraser went in 1975- the blocking of Supply in the Senate, the raping of the Australian Constitution and conventions - 
-The Prime Minister of Australia, the honourable member for Wannon, sought to take politics off the front pages of the newspapers of Australia. Perhaps his name is not as well known now as it was some time ago. I remind people that he was the Prime Minister of 
Australia at the end of 1975 and in 1976 when policies were introduced which produced what can only be described as a catastrophic condition in Australia. I think you would agree,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that a government has a responsibility, to honour the promises that it has made. It has a responsibility when elected on the basis of certain undertakings and certain promises, to go ahead and to put into legislation what it said it would do. This mini-Budget that has been introduced underlines the fact that the Government is not to be trusted. There is a gap between what the Government said it was going to do in 1975, what it reaffirmed it was on about in 1977 and what it is now doing. One has to affirm and to say again and again that the Government, when it talked about tax indexation in the context of elections, did not equivocate. It did not talk about half indexation. It did not talk about surcharges. It talked about governments being responsible and, as a way of achieving that level of responsibility, it said that within the context of inflation, full tax indexation would be maintained. The Government talked about full indexation, not half indexation or half indexation plus surcharge. 
Taxpayers across the country to whom I am speaking tonight know that as from 1 July this year they will be paying $6 more than they would have been paying if the Prime Minister had honoured his promise. They know also that, just nine months after new health insurance arrangements were introduced as part of the August Budget, they will be paying, out of their pockets, an additional $5 a week. Just think of the incredible dishonesty of this Government! I ask honourable members to remember when the Labor Party was struggling to implement its program, which in 1972- it was elected to implement. That mandate was reaffirmed in 1974. The Opposition at that time, the present LiberalNational Country Party Government, used all the resources it could to ensure that that program would not get through. At the end of 1975, just after Medibank had been introduced, what did the Leader of the Opposition at that time, the present Prime Minister, say? He said: 'We will maintain Medibank. We will ensure that that program of free, comprehensive, universal health insurance will continue to be implemented in the way in which it was conceived by Bill Hayden and the Labor Government of the time'. But what has happened? Between 1975 and the present we have seen a myriad of changes in the health insurance system, all of which have had the net effect of destroying people's confidence in universal health insurance and which inevitably have had the effect of taking more money out of the individual's pocket. The latest arrangements that were announced in this mini-Budget are designed to take money out of the pockets of people who, in a real sense, can least afford it. 

 Government members interjecting- 

asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) With regard to the Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry, and, in particular, the staffing of the secretariats of his Department in each State Office, is it a fact that the Public Service Board had approved a proposal for a staff of 4 Clerks ( 1 Class 8, 1 Class 6 and 2 Class 4) in each office and that on 1 1 November 1 975 only Executive Council approval was outstanding. 
If so, was this staffing proposal not proceeded with after the change of Government on that date. 
Did this decision result in the existing staff of 2, who were already fully engaged in housing research, having to carry the additional burdens imposed by the Council. 
Was the staff of each State Office reduced early in 1 978 to 1 Class 6 officer who was required to cope with the functions of the Council, housing research and in fact all housing matters that arose in that office. 
If the position is as stated, how does he explain these staff reductions in the light of the Housing Costs Inquiry's recommendations that the Council should carry out more research and especially should provide for regional break-ups of data. 
How does he equate the reduction in staff to carry out research into the housing industry with his and the Government 's professed concern for the welfare of the industry. 
Does he intend to review this situation in light of the Housing Costs Inquiry's recommendations. 
-I was rather surprised to hear the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  describe his electorate as rather less than salubrious. It is unfortunate that honourable members speak in a deprecating way about their electorates. It was even more unfortunate to hear the honourable member reflect on the efforts of the teaching profession. When I move around my electorate and visit schools I see how difficult and complex the eductional process is in this very complex industrial society. It needs to be recognised that in the post-war period Australia has been through an enormous period of social transformation. During that period we have built the basis of manufacturing industry. We have imported hundreds of thousands of immigrant people from other societies. These people have come not from just a handful of societies but from many different societies representing many different languages and cultures. 
We have been through a period in which the systems of communication and the kind of work that people do have been in a constant process of change. While one may want to be critical of particular aspects of what has been carried on in the name of education, on the whole one never fails to be impressed with the dedication and the enthusiasm that teachers have brought to the school situation and the creative way in which they have tackled what I believe to be extremely compex problems. It is rather sad that, at this period in our history, education is obviously no longer the matter of central concern that it was a few years ago to the Parliament and perhaps even to the Government. The problems that were addressed in the 1960s and early 1970s have not gone away. It is not good enough for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to make the kind of bland remark he made the other night. It was to the effect that because total enrolments are beginning to decline and populations of universities are stabilising, therefore, we can afford to move into an era of cuts in spending. 
I do not particularly want to argue tonight, as I am sure the honourable member for Swan would expect me to, that education ought to be getting a larger share of the national Budget. We have to recognise that its share of the national Budget has considerably changed as a result particularly of the policies of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. I do not think that any one on this side of the House- indeed, very few members of parliament- would make an apology for the shift in expenditure that occurred in that period. As a new member of parliament who saw what the Government did very much from the outside, one gets extremely tired of the way in which Government members repeatedly go over what occurred in that period as if nothing positive was done and as if there were no policies which represented important, creative and innovative changes in relation to areas of Australian life. 
Education is one of the areas in which the Labor Government's record is very good. That is true because of the emphasis it placed on its policies. Those policies were not particularly partisan ones. They sought to take politics out of educational funding. We created the Schools Commission which determined the priorities. I would have thought that any genuine Liberal as opposed to a Tory would have supported our policy concerning the redistributive aspects of education funding which sought to provide for people who were in the greatest need some kind of positive discrimination. The whole business of education- the priorities, the school atmosphereought to be a matter which is not decided in the national Parliament or in the State parliaments but which is determined by the parents themselves. Certainly in my experience with schools, teachers have made a tremendous effort over the past few years to get parents much more involved in the life of the school. That very much accords with the devolutionary principles as described by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and set out by the Schools Commission. 
AH of those policies were important ones, but they could be implemented only if there were a tremendous change in terms of funding. I refer to a recent book edited by Scotton and Ferber entitled  Public Expenditures and Social Policy in 

 Australia which is very instructive in terms of funding on a whole variety of social policy areas in the Whitlam years. One paragraph reads: 
The consequences or Labor policies in terms of education expenditures are clear enough. Public expenditure on education increased by 79.7 per cent, or 26.0 per cent in constant price terms, in the three years to 1975-76. Total expenditure on education rose from 4.9 per cent to 6.5 per cent of gross domestic product in the same period. 
A further paragraph states: 
Though to some extent a speeding up of previous trends, the depth and extent of the change in federal rates was such as to mark the beginning of a new epoch in educational funding. It is also clear that, despite the fact that this trend is inconsistent with the 'new federalism' policy of the coalition government, most of the changes are irreversible and have broad bi-partisan support. 
I hope that is the case. I hope that the policies that were introduced in that period are policies that will be continued in a bipartisan way. I hope that those ominous remarks of the Treasurer the other night were not designed to suggest that somehow we have been spending too much money in the area of education, that somehow there had been waste and extravagance and that somehow that money had not been spent in the best way. I think, by and large, that kind of argument certainly cannot be sustained. I am particularly referring to educational funding in relation to the schools area. When I think in terms of my own electorate, and indeed, of the school which my own children attend and when I see the needs that have existed and still exist in those schools across a very wide variety of indicators, I believe that educational funding certainly does need to be sustained at something like the levels at which it has been sustained over the past few years. I do not particularly want to pursue that issue, but I think that any inspection of the buildings that exist in many inner-suburban areas, in many of the northern and western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, and in many of the provincial cities around Australia, will demonstrate the needs in terms of the rehabilitation of old buildings. Of course, many of the new communities are still being formed in Australia and they need to be serviced with schools. 
One could go and look at various programs that are operating in the schools. I think that if one makes comparisons between sectors of education then one sees that there is an enormous way to go for the average government school if it is to reach the kind of standards that the ruling class of this country regard as adequate for its children. I believe that if it is good enough for those schools to have the full range of activities, the full range of programs and the very best of buildings, then that ought to set the standards for the country. We ought to be doing something about taking some of that Government money back that is being transferred to Class 1 and 2 schools by the present Government. As previous speakers have suggested, this situation moves back to some of the characteristics of the bad old days of the 1950s and certainly the early 1960s. 
I want to move on beyond the question of funding to just raise some of the issues which I think are important in relation to education. They are issues that, to some extent, have been raised previously in this debate particularly, I guess, by the honourable member for Swan. He was very critical of the funding of schools within the context of the communities and he wanted to move towards the American proposals in relation to an educational voucher system. Of course, the Americans are very strong on voucher systems. Rather than income support for people on welfare, they tend to provide programs like the food stamp program where literally billions of dollars of aid per year are transferred to the individual in terms of that kind of benefit. I do not believe that education is a matter of a welfare benefit. I do not believe that it is something of that order. I think education is a right. It is not something to be conceived of in individualistic terms but rather socially. If we are to achieve equity within education, we have to think not simply of individual people whose needs are impossible to  assess in  terms of just individual characteristics but we have to try to meet the whole needs of the pupil within a community setting. That does mean a movement towards the improvement, upgrading and sustenance of schools as institutions located within particular communities. 
I say to the honourable member that there is a sense in which we have, as a nation, expected far too much of education. I believe that some of the problems that are associated with some of the feeling of let-down that is being expressed by some speakers tonight about education is a reflection that many people in our society expect that if only we could do something to improve education- I believe that we have improved education at all levels- then somehow, many of the other problems from which our society suffers would immediately be eliminated. I do not believe that is the case. When one talks about reading programs and literacy programs and tries to blame the effectiveness of the teacher or the educational system in transmitting knowledge to the children under their care and says that somehow because particular children do not reach certain arbitrarily denned standards, then that is a reflection on the teachers, one is ignoring the whole importance and the basis of social structure and its interaction with educational processes. 
We have to recognise- I know honourable members on the Government side do not like to recognise this-that the fundamental importance of social class within this nation as indeed, within every Western nation and within any society which can be broadly described as capitalist. Class is the most important determinant in this particular society of social behaviour and social achievement. I think one does see reflected within the computations about adequacies of skills, very much a reflection of the operation of social class within the community. One sees the importance of that particular factor reflected in the schools situation. As much as one might applaud an emphasis in terms of educational opportunity, if we are to produce a greater degree of equality, a more egalitarian society, I do not believe that this will be done merely through education. That, of course, is not an argument for doing the very best that we can with the educational dollar. It is not an argument in terms of positive discrimination. It is not an argument against the disadvantaged school program which I believe achieved a great deal in terms of designing programs and providing resourcesresources are necessary- towards helping particular children facing particular sorts of difficulties. 
I reflected earlier on the changes that have occurred in Australian society. There has been no more important change in our society than the movement towards what was a relatively homogenous society in 1945 to a now multicultural society where we have people drawn from so many different countries in the world and from so many different backgrounds. If one is going to talk about accuracy in terms of numeracy and literacy then one ought to applaud those teachers who have been able, under the most difficult circumstances and with virtually no support whatsoever until Labor came to power, to introduce hundreds of thousands of children from foreign backgrounds into this community with the absolute minimum of social disruption. Very often those children are now numbered in our universities and colleges of advanced education as the very brightest and best students. 
When one is attacking teachers and the profession and talking about waste in education, one ought to take account of the fact that hundreds of thousands of children have, in a sense, progressed effectively through that system and have achieved skills. They have achieved skills not because governments have been sensitive to the needs that are there but very often because they have been prepared to innovate, to be creative and to think about what they are doing. Very often they have been prepared to involve the parents in assisting them to develop programs which are sensitive to the needs of particular children. 
I just very quickly move to what I think will be one of the more fundamental issues in relation to education and what is certainly quite central to the argument of the Williams report. I refer to the question of the relationship between education and economics, education and employment, education and work or education and the industrial aims of our society. Some people- I would number Professor Williams among them- are arguing in a real sense that primary, secondary and tertiary education ought to be geared very much to economic objectives. I very strongly reject that view. The people who are so concerned about numeracy and literacy, as the sole end of education, are very often businessmen who do not know the first thing about education. They are simply saying to the schools: Your job is to produce someone who will be able to work in my factory or in my office in a totally predictable way'. I believe that much the same argument will be advanced more and more about university education and education in the various college sectors. 
I believe that more and more it will be said that education ought to be tailored to the economic needs of society and that the purpose of education is not the self-realisation of the individual, the establishment of a better Australian community or the production of people who have a better understanding of a complex society with problems such as the problems of rapidly changing technology; but that the purpose of education is to produce people who are prepared to accept direction, people who are incapable of thinking for themselves, people who are incapable of being critical of society, people who are incapable of taking on the critical role of citizenship which one would have thought the small 1' liberal philosophy since the days of John Stuart Mill had always been about. I regret this increasing necessity to talk about the relationship between education and opportunities for young people to work, in a situation in which they are being deliberately denied work, pursuant to a fiat of government policy. It has nothing to do with the capabilities of the young people. They are being kept out of the work force because it suits the Government that is in power in Canberra at the present time to exploit these 200,000 young people in that if they were in the work force it might put some pressure on inflation or some other indicator. 
Throughout the post-war period the Labor Party has said that full employment is the fundamental aim of a government. That principle has been deserted by this Government. We ought to be very careful about what this Government is saying about education policy. If we are not careful, it will be designed to ensure that the working class kids of this nation do not get any opportunity to have an education beyond the area of technical and further education, universities will become centres of privilege, and the kids from the private schools will get the opportunity to have the kind of education which is denied to the ordinary rank and file children of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to refer to an experiment which resulted from the establishing of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. This Commission was established by the Labor Government and was concerned with evaluating the whole process of government administration. One of the issues to which that Royal Commission gave consideration was the question of how to fashion government services in a way that people would be best able to receive and participate in the delivery of those services. This experiment was conducted while the Royal Commission was undertaking its work. It was known as the NOW Centre-the North- West One-Stop Welfare Centre. It was established within the city of Coburg and was designed to bring together the full range of welfare services- the services of the Federal Department of Social Security, the services of the State Department of Social Welfare and the services provided by some of the voluntary agencies in that area. There was a considerable amount of participation in the management of the centre by people drawn from the community, which one would have to say is a very diverse community with strong Italian and Greek components. 
I understand that this centre has been under review on something like three separate occasions since its initial establishment. I know of no government decision which has yet been made that resolves the future of that centre. I find it rather odd that what I regard as a very important experiment in attempting to bring together the services provided by the voluntary and public sector ought to have been under evaluation for so long and yet no decision has been taken either to discontinue the centre and perhaps move towards some other way of devolving responsibility or bringing government administration closer to the people or to continue to fund the centre on a permanent basis. 
One of the most difficult problems for people receiving various forms of welfare is that they are shunted from one to another among a whole variety of officers who deal with various types of allowances or various aspects of what very often is part of a human problem which ought to be dealt with as a whole and not separately. In relation to that concept of the NOW Centre, I want to refer to an opportunity which exists in the city of Northcote within the electorate of Batman to develop something along the lines of the NOW Centre. For a period of some five years successive honourable members have been endeavouring to persuade the Government to establish a larger office for the Commonwealth Employment Service at Northcote. The office is currently located in a shop front. Something like 30 people deal with the unemployed persons under conditions which certainly do not offer privacy and certainly do not offer the most efficient circumstances in which to deal with those problems. 
Quite recently I discovered that the Department of Social Security has a Northcote office, with something like 50 members of staff, which is currently located in the main government offices in Spring Street in the centre of Melbourne. My proposition is simply that the Government should consider the establishment in the city of Northcote of a Commonwealth Government centre which brings together the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security, possibly in some type of working relationship with welfare services provided by the Northcote Municipal Council and some of the voluntary agencies which exist in that city. I believe that it would achieve some of the central objectives of policy, as I understand it. It would be rational, it would provide co-ordination, and it would provide a working relationship between various departments of the Commonwealth Government and other levels of government. I believe that currently there is such a close relationship between the operations of the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Employment Service that considerable gains could be achieved for the people who want to use that centre. 
-One can understand from the speeches of the two National Country Party members- the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)why  their party is in such terrible shape in Victoria and why it is coming very close to being eliminated in that State. It is a party which does not understand unemployment. It is a party ruled by prejudice rather than by facts. Any independent observer listening to those two speeches would not have been able to find in either speech a single fact to underline the central propositions being put before this House. There was a great deal of talk about what people may or may not have said about other people. There was a great deal of country gossip- no facts, no assertions based on any kind of evidence. 
If this Government is seriously interested in surveying the unemployed or any group of social service beneficiaries to try to discover the number of people who may be, in one way or another, outside the system, it is open to the Government to do so. But what is it doing in terms of its research funds? It is carrying out a second survey- an Australian Bureau of Statistics survey- across Australia to determine the number of people unemployed, simply because it was embarrassed earlier by the CES figures and is looking for a more favourable set of statistics. If the Government is to throw away money on a survey which any social scientist worth his salt in this country will say is not worth the paper it is printed on, how can the Government argue that something is the case when it has not been prepared to put in resources to try to discover the truth? 
We have before us a classical blamingthevictim syndrome. I think it is incredibly sad that there are so many people unemployed in this country. At present twice the number of people are unemployed as there were when Labor was in office. Nearly half a million people are unemployed. Yet all we have in the Parliament is a debate dominated by the blaming-the-victim syndrome. It is as if the unemployed are the basis of the problem. A lot has changed since this Government came into power. There has been quite an increase in unemployment. The length of time during which people are unemployed has changed dramatically. Rather than the average unemployed person being out of work for three months the period is now more like 6 months. We are moving to a situation where not just temporary relief, the traditional purpose of unemployment benefits, is needed; much longer term assistance is needed. The rural sector knows a great deal about long term adjustments and long term assistance. 
Furthermore, the ratio between job seekers and vacancies has changed dramatically, particularly for young people in rural areas. The number of people looking for a job compared with the number of vacancies is absolutely astronomical. I am sure that in many of the country towns which are represented by the honourable member for Calare and the honourable member for Murray the ratio of job seekers to vacancies is 100 to 1. That is the responsibility ofthe rural sector. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory represents a sector dominated by large scale capital farmers. Some 36,000 farmers in this country have assets of more than $250,000 and they are not doing too much to ensure that the young people in rural Australia are finding employment. 
This is a blaming-the-victim syndrome. The Government is attacking the people who are suffering rather than trying to understand the causes of unemployment. We hear a lot of talk by Government members about equity within the range of beneficiaries. We do not hear a lot of talk about equity between various social groups in the community. I ask permission to incorporate in  Hansard  a table produced by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research which indicates the effects of the tax changes in the 1978-79 Budget on the distribution of the payment of tax between income groups. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905314_36_1.jpg"></graphic>

Source: Estimates of the Institute. 
-That table shows that people on incomes of $7,500 are paying, as a result of tax changes in the last two years, 22 per cent more tax, whereas people on $30,000 a year and above are paying 1.2 per cent less. That is the kind of change which this Government has brought about by its tax policies. It has introduced the most regressive tax policies of the post-war period. Yet it says that it is a low tax government. One hears a great deal said by this Government about what it has done concerning tax avoidance. Let me quote  Mr B.  Pascoe, the  President  of the Taxation Institute of Australia, who wrote recently: 
During the past year or two tax avoidance became big business in Australia. It became a disease which is being allowed to go unchecked. It has reached epidemic proportions. It is perhaps not going too far to say that the taxpaying community of Australia almost went mad in its rush to become a party to tax avoidance schemes. 
This has happened since this Government has been in power. 
-The Government has done nothing at all about it. This Government is too interested in chiselling the people in this country who are dependent on welfare. It is too interested in blaming the victims. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Last Thursday he was asked: 
Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area of permits Q/4P and Q/SP infringes on the proposed section of the Marine Park? 
He answered yes. Subsequently, he told the Parliament that he had misheard the question and that his answer was inaccurate. I ask: In what way was the answer inaccurate? Which facts contained in the question does he now disagree with? 
I will not take up the time of the House for long, but I think it is only reasonable that important changes such as these ought to be properly debated in this House. I think that health, along with employment and housing, represents one of the basic needs of people throughout this nation. It ought to be placed on record that the Opposition strongly condemns the way that this Government has conducted itself in the health area. Over the 3 1/2 years that this Government has been in power, we have seen three major changes and many minor changes to the health scheme which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1974; a scheme which in 1975, this Government, when in Opposition and when moving towards power, said that it would implement and continue. In fact, we have seen a movement progressively, not always consistently progressively, away from universal health insurance. We have now reached a point where we have returned to the worst days of the 1 960s in which people all over Australia lack the kind of universal health cover which was the commitment, one thought the bipartisan commitment, by both Government and Opposition in 1975. 
I think that one ought to take particularly seriously the current situation of people who are not insured. The latest changes in the Government's health plan are likely to fall most seriously on such people. One needs to think particularly of the chronically ill. It is the chronically ill people, who are forced back to receive medical attention again and again, who are not going to be covered by these latest changes. The people represent in a real sense the disadvantaged. They are not necessarily going to be the disadvantaged as classified by the Government when it talks about that term. We have to recognise that people in this community who have need have not necessarily lost their prime. They are not people who want to receive charity. I would have hoped that at the end of the 1960s we had succeeded in removing charity as the basis of health, welfare and social security in this country. What this legislation does is reintroduce the notion of charity into health care. So that people will, in a real sense, depend on the doctor very often to classify them in a certain way, to classify them as socially disadvantaged if they are to receive free health care. That situation, I believe, is intolerable in the 1970s. It ought to be resisted. The Labor Party is very strongly committed when it returns to power to moving back to a system of universal health insurance, a system in which people, irrespective of their income level and their health situation, can depend on receiving care at no direct cost to themselves. People fought for many years to achieve that goal. It is a very sad day to have reached the point with this legislation when that goal has been sacrificed. 
When one reflects on that fact, one has to recognise what has changed since the early 1970s to the present time. I refer particularly to unemployment. About 500,000 people are now unemployed. Some would argue that the figure is more likely to be 800,000. Under the changes introduced by this Government, those people have no right to free health care. They have to go to their medical practitioners and beg. They have to get down on their knees and claim that they are socially disadvantaged. The medical practitioner still has the choice to regard them as deserving or undeserving. That situation could well have been avoided. This Government has created that situation not, as previous speakers in this debate have suggested, for reasons of health care or even health financing and insurance, but because it has itself in such a mess fiscally that it is now forced to use the health system as a mechanism for balancing a budget which has proved increasingly difficult to balance. It is very unfortunate that the Government ought to have treated the health system on the one hand less than 12 months ago as a mechanism to reduce the consumer price index and the rate of inflation and now, seven months later, to use the mechanism in this legislation to reduce the public deficit. That has very little to do with the health system as such and very little to do with health policy. 
The Government has reflected in this area as it has in so many other areas that it has almost no substantial interest in policy. No positive policy proposals have stemmed from this Government in the health field. Certainly there have been chopping and changing in health financing. There has been discussion over three and half years about the need for rationalisation in the hospital system. The hospital development program has been substantially cut back. Surprisingly, given the suggestion that the Government is moving away from hospitalisation towards more preventative measures, there have been substantial cutbacks in the community health program. On one hand the Government has been moving against preventative medicine and on the other it has cut back on the institutional systems delivering health care, particularly hospitals. One is aware that a great deal has been said in the report of the committee of inquiry into health costs last year, and, more recently, in the paper presented along with these Bills on the rationalisation of hospital costs about the centrality of the hospital in the escalation of costs in the health care field. One has to agree with the Government that there is a need overall for some rationalisation in the delivery of hospital services. But the Government has had a great deal of time to look at the hospital system. The best that it has been able to do three and a half years later has been to produce the slimmest of discussion documents on hospital costs and to propose a royal commission which could well take several years to be completed. As we all know, the chances of whatever that commission may determine as necessary actually being implemented, given the political forces involved, represent another great area of doubt. 
I believe that it is entirely regrettable that the Government has moved away from comprehensive health insurance. It is entirely regrettable that long term patients in hospital over the 60 day period ought to be charged by the Government even though they are located in hospital systems. As the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  suggested, this is to happen for the first time since Federation. It reflects the lack of any basic philosophy of this Government. I think that the Government, particularly in the health care area, is completely without any sense of direction or purpose. It lacks any real sense of justice. It is moving the health system back towards charity. It is extraordinary, given the importance of these changes, that when the Government recognises that it is doing something unpopular it seeks to cut short and limit the area of debate. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many Home Savings Grant applications received and approved in (a) each State and (b) Australia have had payment deferred. 
What is the value of the payments deferred in (a) each State and (b) Australia. 
How many applications remain to be processed in (a) each State and (b) Australia and what is the estimated value of the unprocessed applications. 
What advice is currently being given to applicants. 
) When can applicants expect to be paid. 
What sum remains from the 1978-79 Budget allocations. 
What steps has he taken to ascertain the extent of hardship caused by the deferment of the Home Savings Grant payments. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
Has the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs been seeking accommodation for a Commonwealth Employment Service office at Northcote, Victoria, for 5 years. 
Is it currently proposed to move the Northcote office to Collingwood where another CES office is already in existence. 
Is the Department of Social Security also seeking an office in Northcote in which to locate approximately SO staff. 
If so, will he consult with the Minister for Administrative Services with a view to seeking the establishment of a Commonwealth Government office in Northcote housing both the CES and the Department of Social Security. 
5 ) Will he ask the Minister for Administrative Services to consult the Northcote City Council with a view to securing a suitable location for these offices. 
Does he support the view that co-operation between Commonwealth Government Departments and consultation with relevant local government councils are essential aspects of planning for Commonwealth services designed to serve local communities. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 May 1 979: 
1 ) What does his Department estimate to be the extent of hidden unemployment in Australia in 1 979. 
How many persons currently undertaking part-time work are estimated to prefer full-time employment. 
What estimates exist of the number of persons who have withdrawn from the work force but who would prefer to work if jobs were available. 
What research has been carried out by his Department since 1975 into the levels of hidden unemployment. 
Is his Department currently sponsoring any surveys or research into hidden unemployment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of Batman were not in private health insurance schemes as at 30 April 1979. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How many homes and flats are owned by his Department in the West Heidelberg area, Victoria. 
How many of these homes and flats are vacant as at 6 June 1979. 
What is the average length of time which these houses and flats are left vacant. 
What is the basis of eligiblity for these houses and flats. 
What is the average length of time these houses and flats are occupied. 
How many of the houses and flats in the area have been transferred to the Victorian State Housing Commission. 
Are there plans to transfer any further homes and flats owned by his Department to the Victorian State Housing Commission. 
Have any of his Department's houses or flats in the area been used as emergency accommodation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the network of 20 American installations in Australia run by the United States of America Defence Department, the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency and the United States Air Force and Navy includes the largest computer complex in the southern hemisphere and the biggest communications base for the US Navy's submarine strike force. 
Is it also a fact that the computer complex forms an essential part of the American early warning system and is a link to a satellite that monitors Chinese radio communications, as reported by John Shaw in the Los Angeles  Times  on 12 December 1978. 
Does the Harold E. Holt communications station receive 'All out war' signals several times a year; if so, how are these electronic mal-functions treated, particularly by the Australian liaison team. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) How many registered nursing homes were in the Electoral Division of Batman during the years (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and the period (c) 1 July 1978 to 1 April 1979. 
) Who owned these homes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the final report of a project, first outlined in the Annual Report of the Hospitals and Health Service Commission for 1975-76, entitled  Health needs in the Fitzroy, Collingwood, Richmond areas  (Dr T. Santamaria)  been lodged with the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
) Will the final report be made available to people in the Fitzroy, Collingwood and Richmond areas, Victoria. 
asked the Minister representing the 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What sums were made available to each State for Aboriginal health in the form of grants to the States in (a) 1 976-77 (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1978-79 to date. 
What was the nature of the services provided by the States. 
) What was the total amount of Federal funds allocated to the Aboriginal community controlled health services in each of the States in (a) 1976-77 (b) 1977-78 and (c) 1 978-79 to date. 
On what basis are funds allocated to the Aboriginal community controlled health services for Aboriginal health and how do the arrangements differ from those funds allocated through States Grants. 
I want to raise several matters. The first concerns the matter of security as it affects Parliament House. Last night when the Budget Speech was being presented a member of my staff came into the Speaker's Gallery to listen to the Speech. I understand that certain security precautions are taken with people entering the House. She went along with those precautions. The point that I want to make is that as part of the security precautions that were taken her handbag was thoroughly searched. I have some doubts about the propriety of searching people's handbags, but one could justify that procedure. Within her handbag there was a pamphlet. The officer concerned removed it from the handbag and took it from her. It seems to me to be quite extraordinary that an officer of the House should remove and take a document which could have no bearing whatsoever on the security of this Parliament. She was subsequently able to recover the document. Nevertheless, in my view an invasion of privacy occurred when private material within her handbag was removed by an officer of this Parliament. I regard this as an extremely serious matter and I would like you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to draw it to the attention of  Mr Speaker. 
The other matter I wish to raise is but one of the many mundane electoral matters that I think ought to be raised in the Parliament from time to time because they affect constituents. I refer to the dental health facilities that have been provided under a program initiated by the Labor Government in 1973-74. Eight schools in the Batman electorate have been waiting for 12 months for the appearance of mobile dental units. That is not so surprising except that in June 1978 the State Government went to considerable trouble to lay concrete slabs and erect power poles at each of those eight schools. That work having been done, people expected a mobile dental unit to appear on the scene. That would seem to be fairly logical given that that capital expenditure had been incurred and that work had been completed. A number of my constituents approached me about what these concrete slabs and power poles were for and they were told that they were for the mobile dental units. They did not appear because of the failure of this Government to build on in an effective way the program which was established in the 1973-74 Budget. 
Last year there was a substantial cut-back in funds for this program. Whilst some capital works have been carried out in my electorate there are not enough mobile units nor indeed is there sufficient staff to operate the service. I regard that as a very serious matter because, as we all know, the costs associated with dental treatment are a part of the national health bill about which this Government claims to be particularly concerned and clearly those costs could be substantially reduced if action were taken at the earliest stage. The mobile dental units provide the opportunity for children's teeth to be examined at a stage when it is possible to do the kind of work which will prevent deterioration and subsequently much more costly dental expenditure. 
In this Budget I notice that funds for the program have risen by an additional $5m although there has been a cut in capital works. 
From my knowledge of the city of Melbourne there is an enormous demand for these services. I wanted to draw the attention of the House to the fact that capital expenditure had been incurred in my electorate. There is a considerable demand for the services of the mobile vans and for the expertise of the staff who work in these units. This service is not being provided because the Government has been tardy. It has cut back on the level of funding which was provided during the time the Whitlam Government was in power. 
I do not want to take the time of the House for very long to discuss the Navigation Amendment BUI which has already been extensively debated and on which there is no basic disagreement between the Government and the Opposition. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  in a somewhat casual and provocative manner earlier in the debate referred to the proposed Omega navigation station in Victoria which is about to be constructed. 
It is in Gippsland, in the Minister's electorate. The honourable member for La Trobe said: 
. members of the Opposition take such belligerent objection to the Omega facilities which, when installed and available to our maritime traffic- to say nothing of our air traffic- will provide tremendous support to vessels at sea. 
He went on to make several other disparaging comments about the position that a number of Opposition members have taken in relation to the Omega base. Within the context of this debate I make it very clear that the Opposition is certainly concerned- its support of this Bill indicates that concern- that the best possible navigational aids ought to be available for Australia. The point to which I draw attention and which I emphasise in this debate is simply that any objections that Opposition members may have to the Omega base relate to the military purposes of that base. It is my understanding that the military functions associated with the Omega base have been consistently denied by the Government. The Government has not been prepared to be completely frank and honest about the functions of the base. I refer to an article by Desmond Ball on the military uses for Omega. I shall quote some of the things he said simply to establish the point that when the Opposition discusses Omega in a critical way it does so with military purposes in mind. In an article entitled 'Some Military Uses for Omega' published in the  Pacific Defence Reporter  of June 1977 Ball said: 
The 'official ' position is that Omega has no important military uses. This is not only dishonest, but the record also shows that Governments of both political persuasions have been unnecessarily secretive, uninformative, equivocal, disingenuous, and themselves quite ill-informed and technically ill-equipped to comprehend the system and its strategic and defence implications. 
Ball is a well recognised authority on defence installations and the Omega base. In his article he set out what he believes to be the military purposes of the Omega base. Having reviewed the evidence he said: 
It is the present writer's judgment that Omega should be regarded as part of the American  FBM  system. 
It is the fact that the Omega base will ultimately be an integral part of the American military defence communications system, particularly communications systems with nuclear submarines, that needs to be considered when one is making an assessment of the importance of that base. In his article Ball reviewed various other military purposes for which Omega will serve a function. This matter is at least important enough to spend five minutes answering the honourable member for La Trobe who suggested that people on this side of the House are unduly sensitive about the Omega base. That sensitivity is not related to whatever value it may have for navigational purposes. I understand that value to be quite considerable. It is the importance of that base militarily for the United States and the entanglement that that would involve within the American nuclear defence capability that causes people to have what I believe to be a justifiable concern. It is unfortunate that the honourable member for La Trobe introduced that note into the debate which has, on the whole, indicated bipartisan support for this legislation. 
Finally, I draw the attention of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  as honourable members from both sides of the House have done, to the importance of the report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on oil pollution and the critical importance of that issue to Australia with particular reference to the Great Barrier Reef" and Torres Strait areas. Honourable members have canvassed that issue and made points concerning particular recommendations of the Standing Committee. I fully support what has been said with respect to the report of the Committee of which I was a member. 
-The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has just suggested that no one could suggest that the Government was, in any real sense, callous with respect to its treatment of employment. I put it that Professor Ronald Henderson, who has conducted a research into poverty over a number of years, is perhaps in a good position to make a judgment as to who is callous and who is not with respect to employment. It is undoubtedly true that Henderson's view is that the Government is callous. Referring to the cuts that have been made in training programs, he said: 
I find these cuts 'inexplicable'. I can only think that the Government believes that there are never going to be enough jobs. 
When one talks about employment and about what this Government has not done with respect to employment, one is not simply talking about employment as a peripheral matter in terms of some kind of assistance programs that may or may not be mounted by the Government from time to time according to its priorities in any one year. One is essentially talking about the basic economic strategy which is adopted by the Government. For the past four years- God knows that is long enough- this Government has been pursuing a single strategy. Essentially, that strategy has been posing the interests of inflation over and against the interests of unemployment. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said, over the past four years the unemployed have been burnt on the alter of inflation. For four years we have seen the Government giving its fundamental priority to inflation over and against the unemployed. Naturally enough, over that period one has seen a massive escalation of the unemployed. 
Let us not make the kind of remark that the Minister made when he talked about what happened under the Labor Government four or five years ago. The Conservative Government has to understand that at the next election people will not be voting on Labor's record in 1974. The Government will have to understand also that when it goes to the electorate next year, as certainly it will, it will have to put the argument that the responsibility for its economic failures relates to the international economic situation. People will be able to judge whether international factors were significant in 1974 and are not in 1979, or the reverse. Perhaps international forces are always significant, but there is a balance and to some extent governments have to take some responsibility for their failures. 
After all, in 1975 when an election was in the offing, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had no doubt about the fact that there were going to be jobs in Australia for all who wanted to work. He had no doubt then that there might have been dole bludgers. In 1975, when he was criticising the Labor Government's record in relation to payments of unemployment benefits, he said that he thought unemployment benefits ought to be raised along with the increase in the numbers of unemployed. What have we seen? Over the last four years we have seen a government which has constantly borne down on the unemployed and unemployment benefits. The Government talks a great deal about tax evasion but it has not been prepared to put anything like the resources into chasing out the tax crooks in this country that it has been prepared to put into hounding the unemployed. For all that hounding and pursuing very few people are ever brought before a court for receiving unemployment benefits under false pretences or something of that ilk. 
Basically in this motion today the Opposition is not arguing for a particular change in government policy. All we are suggesting is that people within this Parliament, from both sides of the House, ought to have the opportunity to participate in an investigation into the whole situation of unemployment. A whole series of issues has been raised over what has now been five years of experience of mass unemployment in Australia. There is an experience that perhaps we ought to build upon, and we ought to carry out some investigations. There are issues that ought to be looked at. When one thinks of the tragedy which is unemployment and the mass scale on which it currently exists, that proposition seems to me to be eminently reasonable. After five years we ought at least to set up a committee and have a good look at employment. I am sure that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  will not be able to disagree seriously with that proposition. 
The Parliament ought to look at the whole issue of unemployment, and look at it in terms of a number of aspects. Firstly, we ought to look at the whole question of statistics. It is absolutely absurd for the Minister to compare the Commonwealth Employment Service figures for 1975 with figures in 1 979, when he does not even want the CES figures known, and he relies completely on the Australian Bureau of Statistics. We are in the absurd position where there is no agreement at all on the basis on which unemployment statistics ought to be collected. We have different authorities within the country, serious people who have made a study of employment and of the economy, who disagree fundamentally in relation to the scale of unemployment within this nation at present. For example,  Dr Peter  Sheehan of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University claims that there are not about 60,000 people who might be described as the hidden unemployed- the Minister did not mention the other 50,000 people who are working part time and who would prefer to be working full time in terms of his figures; he did not mention the 1 10,000 extra to be added to the ABS or the CES figures-  Dr Sheehan  estimates that there is something of the order of 350,000 people unemployed over and above the 450,000 people who are officially registered to receive unemployment benefit. He claims that the scale of unemployment is of the order of 800,000 in this country. We ought to know whether that is true or not. I put it to the Minister that there is no one in his Department who is investigating that matter and he says that in his answer to my question. Is it not his Department that is qualified to look at the scale and definition of unemployment and to see who is being affected by the problem in Australia at the present time. At least we ought to be able to agree about that on an objective basis. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  is concerned to be involved in a great issue which he knows will sink him in his electorate if he cannot get involved. He knows that and he wants to be involved. All we are saying is this: At least, let us have a look and see what the scale of problem is. Windschuttle, another authority, for example, claims that 18 per cent of the work force is either underemployed or unemployed. This is a massive percentage of the work force and a very serious statistic. This Parliament should have the opportunity to investigate that statistic and not be fobbed off by a public relations man who is sent in to this House by the Prime Minister because he did not like the advice  of the  previous Minister. We know that the present Minister will do anything and go anywhere for Malcolm Fraser. He could not care less for the back benchers and their seats because he is going all the way with Big Mai. He is going all the way because he wants power and he is not interested in the tragedy of unemployment as it affects people right across Australia. At least the statistics ought to be of some concern. We, as a Parliament, ought to get on top of those statistics and make our decision as to what they might mean. 
We ought to be having a look, as a Parliament, at the real costs of unemployment. We ought to be able to determine what those costs are and to quantify those costs. The Austraiian Council of Social Service, for example, estimates that with an average rate of unemployment of 450,000 the Government will lose $780m in tax revenue forgone and another $900m to $980m in unemployment benefits. The Minister does not with agree with the figure of 450,000. He knows that is the approximate figure, if it is not more, we are going to be talking about over the next two years. The figures of $900m to $980m are conservative estimates. The Budget predicts more. We will be losing some huge amount of money in terms of lost production of goods and services. We will be losing an amount of somewhere between $2 billion and $7 billion in terms of production that is not going to be undertaken because underemployed and unemployed people are not being given the opportunity to participate in the work force. Here is a government which says that it has a tax problem, which cannot rake in enough revenue to meet its commitments and which has had to increase tax by 18 per cent in any one year. That same Government is, in fact, spending at least $ 1,000m in terms of simple sustenance programs for unemployed young people and hundreds of millions of dollars on other programs. The Minister talked about a figure of $400m. Surely if we understood the real costs of unemployment then we might come to a different view of what the Government's policy ought to be. 
We ought to be prepared to look at unemployment not in terms of these aggregate statistics alone of what unemployment might be right across Australia, but in terms of people as they live in particular towns, particular electorates and particular regions across this country. Members of this House know that unemployment is going to be a problem in different terms in different parts of Australia. If I go to my local CES office and say 'Tell me something about the pattern of employment and unemployment in my region. Which are the industries that have been going down and where are jobs being lost? Which are the industries which are likely to expand?', the officers cannot tell me a damn thing. As a member of this Parliament, I have a right to know what is happening in terms of the employment and in terms of the microeconomy of my electorate. It is those kinds of figures that the Department is not collecting. It is that kind of research that is not being carried out because the Government starves the Department of the resources to carry out that kind of work. More importantly it is because the Government is not doing a damn thing about employment or unemployment. 
This Government is thriving on the greatest amount of employment that can be possibly generated. It wants to increase unemployment to the highest level because that will bear down upon the wage and salary earners of this country. It will create a situation, as the Minister has suggested where conditions will flourish for private industry. This Government has given private industry hundreds of millions of dollars in investment allowance since it has been in power. The Crawford commission which investigated the expenditure of that money came to no conclusion whatsoever about the value of that allowance to industry. It recommended, indeed, that the allowance be continued, without coming to any conclusion about it at all. We should be able to determine the influence of government policy, not simply at the macro-level in terms of what is happening in Australia, but in terms of what is happening to people in particular industries. 
We ought to be able, as a Parliament to respond to the needs of particular groups of people. For example, in relation to the manufacturing industry, and particularly in relation to some of the industries in the more competitive sector, concentrations of migrants were brought from overseas to this country as migrant workers in the 1950s and 1960s and, increasingly in the 1970s and 1980s they are being thrown on the scrapheap. These people know, irrespective of the Galbally report, that the Government does not give a damn for them nor a damn for their working conditions and is not concerned to ensure that either they keep their jobs or the kids get their jobs. They know that when we move towards a more capital intensive economy, when the big funds go into the big monopolies, they are going to be the people who will pay the costs. 
As the member for Port Adelaide said, the costs of unemployment are not distributed equally. They are distributed on the backs of the hundreds of thousands of young people and on the backs of people who are already drawn from the lower income section of the community, the working class. These people are bearing the costs and the burdens that people from the class of the Prime Minister have never had and never will have any feeling for. It is an insult to this House that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs should come in today in response to a motion of this type and make no reference to the proposal and not discuss the merits of an inquiry. He does not want an inquiry because he is a public relations man, he is an advertising man. He is someone who goes out into the community and sells the community a line because this is a government which has no solution to the problems of unemployment, either in the short term or the long term. We ought to be looking at the problem of unemployment in terms of its impact on the people in particular areas and regions of the country. 
The Government now says that the Opposition has no solution in relation to unemployment. I put it to honourable members that we have consistently put and will put tonight an alternative economic strategy which would lead to a greater role, certainly for the public sector, which would lead to stimulatory expenditure and which would result in the creation of tens of thousands of jobs in a very short period. The Government has no sense of planning, it has no interest in manpower planning. The Minister read out today a litany of trivia which makes no sense about where the areas of growth for jobs in industry are and where they are not. Did he say one word about where jobs would be created? He did not say anything because he does not know where jobs are created. He is in the ministry of unemployment simply to perpetuate unemployment and not to create jobs. That is what the people of Australia believe. They know the Minister to be a charade. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I enter this debate to place in context the changes that are made in this very brief piece of legislation. We know that in the area of health, health insurance and health charges the Government has made a whole succession of changes during the period in which it has been in office. It has argued consistently that those changes are being made to shift the burden of the costs away from the community as a whole and on to the patient. If we look at the very brief second reading speech by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  we see that that is again the burden of his argument. He said: 
Increasing the patient contribution is one of the means by which the Government can curtail the increasing expenditure on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
I guess that is clear. That is certainly the case. That is one of the kind of tautologies that we see being expressed more and more by members of the Government parties. Given that the Government has an inquiry in train and, once again that the results of that inquiry are to be released after the decisions have been taken, it indicates that the Government does not really understand and is not really prepared to come to grips with the fundamental causes of health costs. We have seen, in a succession of changes and amendments to the National Health Act, Australia move away from a system of health financing that ensured universal and equitable access to health care to a system in which the responsibility is shifted more and more on to the backs of the individual. The wealthy now have access and cover for all their medical needs while the less well off are, in effect, denied access to adequate levels of care. The extraordinary thing about this succession of changes that we have seen sponsored by this Government is that it bears no relationship to the issue on which the Government has placed the greatest emphasis, that is, not simply the cost of health to government, but also the cost of it to the community. Even in relation to the cost to government we find that after this Government has been in power for four years, health represents 10 per cent of the expenditures of the Government. 
The reason that the Government has been unable effectively to restrain overall health costs is that it has been unable to persuade doctors to control the number of doctor-initiated services. We ought to be very clear about this. The reason that we have this particular increase, the reason that we are to have the removal of the 40 per cent Commonwealth contribution in May, is that the Government is not in control of the critical gatekeepers within the health system. Indeed, that was the burden of the Government's discussion paper, commissioned in May of last year, concerning the reasons for rising health costs. All through that report it was suggested not that the basic cause of rising health costs was that people were going to the chemist or to the doctor for the fun of it but that it is the doctors who are responsible for rising health costs. It is those entrepreneurs who are so critically important to the health system, who as long as they are in charge of that system, will ensure that costs do not diminish. The paper quoted an international expert on that very point: 
The insulation of the medical profession from concern about resource use seems to be the single most important problem in Australia's health care scene. 
That discussion paper emphasised that it is the doctors who are, and must be, the gatekeepers of the system. Incentives and cost controls should be aimed at their behaviour. The doctor, the paper suggests, acts as an entrepreneur not only selling his own services to the patient but also opening access to a range of increasingly expensive services which are under his control, including the use of drugs. He it is who without any real checks, orders revisits, referrals to specialists and laboratory and x-ray investigations; and who recommends hospital admissions, operations and length of stay in hospital. He it is who prescribes medication. John Deeble, in a review article on health expenditure, has pointed out that between 1962-63 and 1975-76 there was an increase of 20 per cent in the number of patient initiated general practitioner services, but that there was a 300 per cent increase in doctorinitiated diagnostic services and a 52 per cent increase in specialist referrals. It is those people with a vested interest in an expansion of services for the purpose of economic and financial gain who need to be controlled if we are to see some real restraining of health costs in the Australian community. 
It is extraordinary and it reflects on the servile character of Ministers in this Government that despite his promise to introduce peer review in 1976, the Minister still has not been able to report to this House that even a moderate proposal such as this has been accepted and put into practice by the medical profession. In general terms doctors have not begun in any sense to reduce the excessive prescribing of drugs. They have not sought to find cheaper and more effective ways of administering health services. They have not sought to review the practice of ordering tests or to make greater use of other health care professionals within the health system. Nor has the Minister been able to exercise any restraint over doctors' incomes. During the past four years substantial decreases have occurred in the salaries of ordinary wage and salary earners. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  earlier this afternoon placed tremendous emphasis on the way in which we have seen a real decline in the standard of living since the Fraser Government first came to power. However, for the medical profession, rises continue to occur regularly from an inflated base which it had established in opposition to the Labor Government's policy in 1974-75. 

 Senator Peter Baume told the Forty Ninth Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Congress in January this year that the incomes of doctors have almost doubled in the past three years- in the past three years, not during the Labor Government's term of office. He quoted estimates which showed that general practitioners were earning on average $60,000 gross a year and specialists $80,000. That is an average. Many general practitioners have gross salaries that are considerably higher than that. We all know about the salaries of specialists.  Senator Baume  was quite clear as to the nature of the problem. It was not the demand of patients for more services but the Australian system which rewarded action rather than the result or value. He said: 
Our medical men are paid more if they do more. 
Those words come from  Senator Peter  Baume, who is a member of one of the Government parties. 
A survey of the attitudes of samples of population conducted by the Melbourne  Age  and published in January showed that 61 per cent of people believe that doctors more than any other group are paid too much. It is this system based on a fee for service which rewards doctors for escalating health costs that must be broken. That is the fundamental problem. If we do not tackle this fundamental problem we will never effectively reduce health costs in this country. We may redistribute those costs from government, as we are currently in the process of doing, onto the backs of the patients, the sick, the old and the unemployed; but we will not do anything, fundamentally, to resolve the problems of health costs. So we have seen a series of changes by this Government, none of which have sought to deal with the central problem. All have sought to move costs out of the public sector onto the private sector. Bulk billing has been abolished for all but pensioners and the socially disadvantaged. Health insurance is no longer compulsory. Medibank and the levy have been abolished. People, and especially the low and moderate earners, have to pay considerably more in health costs as a result of this Government's policies. Health costs remain 10 per cent of total Budget outlays but low income people, the sick and the chronically ill, families with high risk such as large families, will be paying a lot more for health coverage. That was decided in May, but we see the trail of it in the Bill which is before the House. The net effect of all these changes is that once again the poor, the low income earners, will be slugged. 
What low income earner would go to his doctor and plead to be classified as socially disadvantaged or deal with his chemist on the basis that he has been classified by his doctor as socially disadvantaged, if that is what the Minister in his usual casual way of making changes gets round to doing? The evidence suggests very few people indeed are prepared to classify themselves in that way even if it means that they are to be paying a considerable proportion of their income in health insurance. Indeed, the Australian Bureau of Statistics earlier this year conducted a survey and found a very high proportion, about 30 per cent, of families below the poverty line were taking out some health insurance and about 27 per cent of those families were taking out full scale health insurance. So people are forced into the situation in which they are paying money for health insurance even though they are only earning $140 or $160 a week. That is what this Government is encouraging. That is what it is on about. It is on about shifting resources away from the lower income people of this community and reversing the redistribution of the Whitlam period to move funds back to the hands of the entrepreneurs, the wealthy and the affluent. 
That is what this change is all about. It is a change which some people might say does not involve a great deal of money, only a 25c increase. Of course, we recognise that the Government has introduced this change because it is totally insensitive to what that kind of change means to a lower income family, a family with perhaps a number of children, a family in which there is. sickness from time to time and a great deal of use is made of pharmaceutical goods. Other speakers have indicated very clearly what the effect of this discriminatory change will be, particularly on these low income families. Once again there is the problem of the Government not quite knowing what to do. It is starting off with the social service beneficiaries and vaguely talking about extending the scheme to other people. The Opposition's amendment is quite clear on this point.- 
I want to conclude very quickly by suggesting that the approach to the health costs that the Government has taken is not the only one. There are other ways that are likely to result and will result in reduced health costs. I refer particularly to the.decision of the Labor Government to purchase the Fawnmac group of companies so as to produce drugs through a Government-owned enterprise. That involved an expenditure of approximately $8m. During the period when that company was being controlled by the Labor Government, it just about half paid for itself. It was making profits of more than Sim a year. That money was coming back into the company to enable it to develop services. It seems to me that rather than the Government being completely dominated by ideological blinkers, as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  suggested it is, it ought to have hung on to that company and to the benefits that it offered in getting insights into the whole area of drug pricing and therefore the costs of drugs. 
I believe the drug industry does need investigation. I think it is unfortunate that the report that has been made was released after the major decisions had been taken. I am quite sure that that report will not have looked at critical issues which relate to the ownership and control of the drug industry. The matters ought to be pursued if we are really interested in controlling the cost of pharmaceuticals rather than shifting the burden of costs onto lower income people. 
-The 1979-80 Budget continues the trend which the Fraser Government has set; that is, the redistribution of wealth and power in the Australian economy. This redistribution is legitimised behind the rhetoric of lowering inflation, long term job creation and small government. In four years of this Government its promises have remained only rhetorical. It has broken many of its basic promises, claiming that its actions were necessary to fulfil other promises. The Government is showing itself to be either misinformed, or not in control, or perhaps both. 
I want to refer briefly to past Budgets. In 1976-77 the Government brought down the now famous miners Budget, the first of its redistributive Budgets. In that Budget trading stock valuation adjustment for income tax purposes reduced government income by $700m in 1976-77; $360m in 1977-78; and $370m in 1978-79. Companies saved 25 per cent of their potential tax payments through this measure alone. 
The coal export levy was reduced. This measure cost the Government $37m and favoured large scale exporters like Utah Australia Ltd. There was an acceleration of the rates of depreciation and expenditure on developing mining sites from 25 to 5 years. It was estimated that most mining companies will not pay tax until the greater part of their expenditure costs are recouped in profits. In effect the 
Government agreed to pay 42 per cent of the cost of developing such sites. Finally, companies were permitted to deduct spending on petroleum exploration from any other taxable income. 
The 1977, 1978 and 1979 Budgets saw import parity which, before this government expropriation, resulted in massive windfall profits for oil companies. In the period 1974 to 1978 direct concessions to companies through tax rose from $280m to $900m. While the Government was stimulating the private sector, cutbacks were occurring in health, education and welfare areas of the Budget. The cities program was almost eliminated. Community development and regional bodies had their funds cut. There were massive cuts in funds for housing. This reduced public housing to less than 5 per cent of the total housing stock, the lowest of any in the Western world. Health charges shifted costs towards individuals. Education showed a continual shift to the non-government schools, and in welfare there was a freezing of many of the extra benefits; for example, supplementary benefits which have been unchanged since this Government has been in power. 
I want to refer to the effects of tax changes and I have a table which I have referred to the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  He has agreed that it can be incorporated in  Hansard.  I ask for leave for its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908296_60_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908296_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

-If the 1978-79 tax scale is compared with that for 1975-76, for people on various levels of real income, including family allowances as a replacement on tax rates, the combined effect is regressive. Single persons on $6,000 and $10,000 suffered a decline in disposable income, whereas those on $30,000 enjoyed a strong increase. A married person with a dependent spouse and two children, earning $10,000, suffered a decline. Those in the same family position, but on $30,000, had the greatest improvement. The Government claimed to be restoring incentive. The other side now is regressive income tax. The 1978-79 Budget increased excise duty on beer, spirits and cigarettes by 12.5 per cent, compounding the regressive effects of direct taxation with indirect taxation. From 1 July 1979, Commonwealth estate and gift duties were abolished thus removing our last taxes on wealth and leaving us one of the only countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with no taxes whatsoever on capital or wealth. As previously noted, this regressive redistribution of wealth has been justified by claims that the strategy would lower inflation, stimulate employment and restore the public sector. However, the results have been that we have reached a level of unemployment of more than 6 per cent with hidden unemployment of 8.8 per cent of the work force. 
Inflation as at June 1979 was 8.8 per cent. Profitability was up to 3.6 per cent. Average weekly earnings rose by 7.7 per cent- not a great deal of gain for such a harsh treatment of wage and salaried persons, the unemployed and the pensioners. When one looks at the projections in this Budget, one sees that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  foresees a rise in inflation of a little above 10 per cent for this year. We do not expect to see unemployment improve in the year ahead. Why, one may ask, against a background of the continued erosion of the standard of living of the average Australian are we now confronted with the most pessimistic projections yet admitted to? 
The Government has continued to be critical of big government, but two aspects must be noted. In respect of the overall public expenditure of 19 OECD nations over the last decade, only Spain and Japan have devoted a lower proportion of their gross domestic product than Australia to that purpose. The OECD average from 1974 to 1976 was 46 per cent. Australia's average was 36 per cent for the same period. We have seen cuts in Federal outlay from 30.3 per cent of GDP in 1975-76, to 29.1 per cent of GDP in 1976-77, 29.7 per cent in 1977-78, 28.6 per cent in 1978-79 and 27.5 per cent in 1979-80. This is a significant reduction, but we notice there was a slight rise in 1977-78. 
The contractionary factor in this Budget, though, is in the increase in revenue and the source of this revenue. Revenue is up 15.4 per cent. There is a mammoth 18 per cent lift in personal income tax compared with only 8 per cent last year- and this in a year of tax cuts. Personal income tax is to rise from 50.1 per cent to 51.3 per cent as a proportion of Budget receipts. Over the period from 1969-70 to 1978-79, this area of tax has comprised 54 per cent of the total increase of tax revenue. 
Paddy McGuinness, in an article on the Budget, wrote: 
Very effectively, although totally of course dishonestly, by the Government's own declared standards, the burden of income tax has been bumped up to finance the irreducible le :ve of Goovernment spending. 
One may ask why in the Budget there has been so much difficulty in cutting back the public sector. Of course there has been the massive increase in aid to industry which, to some extent, may be regarded as necessary in this period of change. They there has been simply the fact that the electorate looks very seriously at reductions, particularly at reductions in the welfare area. On the Government terms there has been little reduction in the public sector, rather a redistribution which has, in the first place, stimulated only small sectors of industry, hence the apparent contradiction between newspaper reports of massive profits and a general increase of profitability of only 3.6 per cent. Secondly, it has worked against the immediate and long term advantages of ordinary people. Finally, it has pushed most of the burden onto those who are least able to afford it. 
In its description of the 1979-80 Budget, the  Australian Financial Review  had this heading on its front page: 
Budget for Business. 
This was because this Budget has been seen to give greater profit retention before tax. It has been seen to give concessions to on-shore exploration. There is depreciation for buildings for traveller accommodation and there is a cut in the coal export levy. It contains a 137 per cent increase in direct outlays to manufacturing. There is a 33 per cent increase in funding for research and development, and a 270 per cent increase in export incentives, building on that massive transfer of wealth to large scale industry that I have referred to in previous Budgets. 
With respect to tax, the Government, and in fact most daily papers, propounded the view that wage and salary earners would be getting tax relief, but of course this has not proved to be the case. In fact, the hardest hit by the present tax system will be the wage earner on $ 10,000 a year or below. For a taxpayer, with dependants, on a salary of $6,540 tax will be up by a massive 155.9 per cent. A taxpayer, with dependants, on an income of $8,720, will have an increase in tax of 28.3 per cent. A taxpayer with dependants on an income of $10,000 will have an increase in tax of 18.7 per cent. As Eric Risstrom said: 
I was staggered to find that a person would have to earn $162,335 or more to be as well off this year as last under the tax plan. 
Alongside this increase in taxes, one has to recognise the compounding that is expected in a decline in wages and salaries. On Budget predictions, weekly earnings will rise by 9 per cent, but prices are expected to rise by over 10 per cent. This fall in real wages as a percentage of GDP continues the trend that has occurred under this Government. I seek leave to have a further table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows: 


<graphic href="115131197908296_62_6.jpg"></graphic>

Estimates of national income and expenditure are necessarily prepared from a wide range of statistical information some of which is available quickly and some only with a delay of several years. For this reason most figures should be regarded as subject to revision as more complete and more accurate information becomes available. Revisions will be of two main types- those made to the most recent quarters as firmer monthly or quarterly data come to hand and those which are a consequence of revisions to annual totals and are distributed to the quarters approximately in accordance with existing quarterly patterns. 
Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service. 
-I turn to welfare. A 9.6 per cent increase on last year's expenditure is proposed in terms of welfare expenditures with a 10 per cent inflation rate expected at least. Gains have been made by some in this area but it is instructive to see where economies have been made. Unemployment and sickness beneficiaries will still be allowed to earn only $6 a week before benefits are cut dollar for dollar- so much for a government that talks constantly about incentive. The under- 18 unemployment benefit has been frozen on $36 a week for the last four years. The single unemployment benefit has not been reviewed. There is no indexation of unemployment benefits and no fringe benefits for the unemployment or sickness beneficiaries. 
I turn to housing. There is a decrease in Government spending of 6.1 per cent without taking account of inflation. The new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement market related rents provide a situation in which the relatively poor support the absolute poor. We have seen a massive cut in welfare housing buildings with 93,000 families now on the waiting list. Only 6,000 houses will be built on 1978-79 estimates by State housing Ministers. 
In health, where there has been a 10 per cent increase in expenditure, the changes occur in who actually bears the cost. Community health centres are $ 14m below the 1977-78 figure. Dental health is still receiving $500,000 less in this Budget than it received in 1977-78. In education there is a 3. 1 per cent increase. This is an effective decrease with 17 per cent to government schools and the figure is up 4 per cent for nongovernment schools, that is, for the private sector. We see that the worst attack has been made on employment activities, with a 1 7 per cent cut in the Government training programs. In the National Employment and Training scheme the bulk of the cut has been made particularly in the Special Youth Employment Training Program where the cut is of the order of 40 per cent. It is estimated that 40,000 more young people who cannot gain employment will not be getting any work experience through this particular scheme during the remainder of 1979. In the  Australian Financial Review  this week it was reported that the Commonwealth Employment Service figures show a rise in youth unemployment from 35.2 per cent in July last year to 36.7 per cent in July this year. 
Whilst funding for the CRAFT scheme will increase by 60 per cent this year- the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has made a great deal of that action- there are a number of points that must be made. The increase in the number of rebates from 56,000 to 85,000 is largely accounted for by the fact that the scheme now covers apprentices for more than one year. The CRAFT scheme appears to be doing nothing to produce more skilled workers. In June 1979 the number of new apprentices actually fell by 4 per cent. The losers in the new training arrangements will be the unskilled workers. According to the Budget unemployment estimates, employment growth during 1979-80 should be a little over .75 per cent or 50,000 people. Annual net additions to the work force are about 110,000, so on the basis of Budget projections the unemployment figure this year will be 50,000 to 60,000 higher than the figure for last year. The Budget estimates an increase of only 20,000 in the number of people receiving unemployment benefits. 
The Budget also cynically refers to the discouraged worker. Whereas we had a participation rate in 1975-76 of 62.3 per cent, in 1978 that participation rate was reduced to 60.8 per cent.  Dr Sheehan  of the Applied Economic and Social Research Institute estimates that 350,000 people form the hidden unemployed, making an aggregate rate of unemployment of the order of 12.5 per cent. So once again we see the continuity implicit in the Government's strategy. The general result of this strategy is a decrease in real wages, a decrease in the social wage, increases in taxation increases in prices, and a heavy burden borne by the unemployed. The transfer of resources to the wealth-creating sector of the economy is no guarantee of expanding investment, output and thus employment. Yet the present strategy appears to be founded on such a fatuous belief. Four years of waiting must surely promote some questioning. 
World pressures of course are having an effect. Australia is the second most foreign-owned country in the Western world. Our motor vehicle production is 100 per cent foreign-owned, oil refining is 9 1 per cent foreign owned and basic metals are 78 per cent foreign owned. One could go on. We have to look at the whole question of the industrialisation of Asia and what that has meant in terms of the selected investment of largely multinational companies associated with free trade zones where conditions of employment exist that are totally unacceptable in free countries, wherever they might be located. We have seen that industries aided by government are often made profitable not by employing labour but by employing machines and at a time when we have the highest unemployment since the Great Depression. The Government argues that real wages must drop. I would argue that they have, but that that has done nothing to improve the employment situation. 
Is it seriously the Government's desire to further reduce living standards of Australians? 
On the Government's own admission its control over the domestic economy in the face of changes in the world economy is limited. It did not argue that in 1973-74. The Government argues that aid to private industry is to benefit the general community, but its approach to bringing this about appears to be wishful thinking. If public money is increasingly aiding private enterprise the public has a right to ensure that it benefits the nation directly. There is a need for planning agreements with firms to ensure that they will undertake investment and create employment. It is a scandal that nobody knows, nobody can say, just what the investment incentives provided by this Government have been worth in terms of either productivity or employment. To make meaningful policies, the Government requires information on corporate plans for investment, export and import dependence and location decisions. It needs to ensure that people can consume increased supply. There is also a need to ensure that the revenue gained by a government and companies is redistributed back to the general community. 
As I move around my electorate of Batman I become more and more aware of the savage effects of the various Budgets of this Government. I see schools suffering from lack of maintenance. I see cutbacks in terms of staff involved in school programs. I see eight sites for mobile dental units that remain empty because nobody has funded the mobile units to move around the sites provided. I see dental chairs provided in community health centres but no dentists to use those chairs. I see piffling little unemployment relief programs such as community youth employment support schemes where very dedicated people work for the unemployed in an extremely serious manner but are just not getting the tools to work with or the resources which will enable them to get the kids either the training or jobs that they need. I see the conditions in which people are working in mental hospitals. The Plenty mental hospital is 28 staff members short. A ward in a hospital serving a community of 300,000 people has to be closed and people needing hospital care are retained in their homes. I see the hundreds of thousands of unemployed young people who are dependent on families receiving incomes of only $150 to $160 per week. 
When I see all this, I realise what redistribution has meant under this Government. It is a scandal in my electorate. No Government Minister will appear in that electorate and defend Government policy because he knows that he will be run out of the electorate. People are angry and they grow angrier every day. They have every right to be angry because the policies of this Government have redistributed wealth in the most draconian way in the postwar history of this country. This is the first government since 1949 that has committed itself unashamedly to increasing unemployment. That scandalous situation will be deplored by the Australian people. This Government will be removed at the next election because people in electorates across Australia have had enough. It is time it went. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) How many migrants arrived in Australia during the period 1 December 1978 to 31 May 1979? 
What percentage of this total has arrived under the family reunion program? 
How does the family reunion intake of the previous six months compare with that of the previous twelve months? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the remarks he made yesterday regarding the so-called selfish wage policies of the union movement. Is he aware that since the end of 1975 real disposable income for a single income family on average weekly earnings with a dependent spouse and two children has fallen by 5.5 per cent? Is he also aware that to return the purchasing power of this representative family to its 1975 level would require an after tax increase in income of $ 1 1 .40 a week or a pay increase of $17 a week? By how much further does the Prime Minister believe that the living standards of wage and salary earners and their dependants should be reduced? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) What are the currently established regional boundaries for the Department of Social Security in the northeastern corridor of Melbourne. 
What changes are currently being contemplated to the boundaries. 
Are there discussions envisaged with State and local bodies to determine the most effective service areas for regional offices in this corridor of Melbourne. 
Is it normally the practice for the Department of Social Security to consult with a local Federal Member prior to establishing regional offices or rearranging regional boundaries. 
-During this Government's term of office we have seen a massive redistribution of income occurring in Australian society. The redistribution has been not only of the money incomes of people but also of their real incomes, that is, their relative access to goods and services. The subject of this debate is housing. The debate is essentially about differential access to housing. Who gets housing under this Government's policies compared, if you like, with the Labor Government's policies. 
The Government has been concerned in this area as in other important areas of potential redistribution, such as education, health and welfare, on the one hand to reduce the total volume of funds available and on the other to seek to ensure that the money that is spent is spent basically on behalf of its natural constituency, that is, on behalf of the better off, the more affluent or, if you like, the middle class. This class bias of the Government's policy is evident throughout its spending priorities. However, it is no more evident in any other area than in the area of housing. 
The Government has been transferring health costs from the public sector to the private sector. Rather than require the affluent to pay for health costs, the Government has sought to ensure as far as possible that the poor pay for their health needs and the sick pay for the sick. Similarly with education it has sought to ensure, by transferring funds from public schools to private schools, the reintroduction of the educational inequality which was marked in so many conservative Budgets before the Australian Labor Party came to power in 1972. In the area of housing the Government is seeking unashamedly to do two things. Firstly, it is seeking to reduce government expenditure on housing, particularly Commonwealth Government expenditure. It wants primarily to shift responsibility from the Commonwealth Government to the States and then to put pressure on the States to shift the burden of expenditure from the State governments to the individual. Secondly, it wants to ensure that the housing dollar is spent more on the affluent and less on the poor and /or the working people of this nation. 
The evidence with respect to my first proposition- that is, that the Government is seeking to reduce Government spending on housing- is absolutely undeniable. Whilst spending on tax concessions for industry has quadrupled since this Government has been in office, spending on housing has been drastically reduced. Housing outlays have been reduced from 3.9 per cent of total outlays in 1974-75 to 1.1 per cent in 1979-80. In 1 979-80 government housing outlays will make up less than one-third of the 1974-75 spending on housing. Between 1978-79 and 1979-80 housing outlays will fall by 13.4 per cent in real terms. These facts are undeniable. It is undeniable that twice as much public housing was being constructed in this country when the Labor Party was in office in 1975 compared with what will be constructed in the current year. The effects of these developments on the housing industry as such are noted. One does not need to quote the building unions with respect to the impact of the policies of this Government, particularly its most recent Budget, on housing as it is constructed in this country. The Master Builders Association in Victoria, in its  Building Comment  said: 
Housing policy has always been a politically sensitive area. Despite the political rhetoric, the net effect of the Budget will not be to provide a direct stimulus to the housing sector. 
It followed with a detailed examination of what in fact has occurred in terms of this Budget, in terms of the depressing activity within the housing area and, as the honourable member for Reid has pointed out, in terms of denying real access to new housing for young Australians. However, the concern in this debate is not directed simply to the housing industry and the employment implications of the Budget with respect to housing. For example, the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry, in its most recent report, suggested that the industry was in very poor shape indeed. It is certainly in far worse shape than it was in at any time that the Labor Party was in power. Indeed, it seems to me that the Government's references to what may or may not have happened four years ago will become more and more hollow as the implications of the Budget not only bite into the work force but also bite into the opportunity for people to get access to housing. Those opportunities are being diminished year by year under this Government. As the honourable member for Reid has pointed out, a continuing and in some States rapid increase is occurring in the price of housing. These developments have been summarised. However, let me emphasise that at a time when the Government is seeking to reduce wage and salary incomes the price of housing is in fact rising rapidly. We are not in a situation in which there has been any improvement over the past four years in wage and salary incomes. In fact, we have been through four years in which the real incomes of people have been steadily reduced. We have been through a period in which unemployment has doubled. In that situation, we have the position where more and more people are dependent on pensions and social service benefits. That is occurring at a time when the real incomes of more and more people are being reduced. The Government in fact is reducing access to housing. At the very time when public housing is most needed- in a recessionary period- the Government is seeking to reduce access to housing. 
That is the sort of harshness to which we seek to draw attention in today's debate. People are finding the situation difficult not simply because the price of housing is escalating very rapidly. The honourable member for Reid pointed not to historic figures but to current figures in relation to Sydney, for example, where the average price of a house has now reached $62,000. That is not the situation in Adelaide where the average price of a house is $34,000, despite the terrors of a Labor government. In Sydney the deposit gap is $27,000 compared with Adelaide where the deposit gap is approximately $5,000 or $5,500. The reality is that the Labor Government in South Australia, which had a much longer period in which to settle in its Land Commission, achieved the situation where the price of housingcertainly the price of the house-land package- is competitive with that- of anywhere else in Australia. That is undeniably true, and it is undeniably related to the comprehensive Labor Government policies pursued in co-operation by Federal and State governments. 
This Government has no such policies. It commissioned an inquiry into housing costs. In its report the inquiry made a whole series of recommendations in relation to what could be done about housing costs. Four years after this Government came to power we find that the average cost of housing has risen to almost $50,000 in Victoria or $60,000-odd in New South Wales. The Government has not done a thing about that situation. It has not done a thing because housing is not essentially a priority of this Government. This Government likes very much to engage in rhetoric about home ownership. But when it gets down to doing something to help people to own their own homes, what does it do? It does the sort of thing it did last year when the homes savings grant scheme was virtually eliminated. There just was not any assistance available to any new home purchasers in Australia in the year 1 978-79. What kind of assistance was available under the scheme anyway? With the average price of a house being between $50,000 and $60,000, the assistance provided amounted to $2,000. That is quite miniscule assistance; it is not strategic assistance at all. 
Let us look at what the Government has been doing with respect to people who are in public housing but who want to get out of it. The Government has introduced this notion of escalating interest rates. To someone buying a pretty ordinary house at Broadmeadows, escalating interest rates mean that he can finish up paying up to $130,000- this includes people in the electorate of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)-  in capital and interest repayments to buy a housing commission home which originally was intended simply to provide temporary accommodation for low income people while they were getting themselves established. So the option of home ownership for lower income people in public housing has been effectively halted by this Government. One should talk about the price of renting a house. There has been a massive increase m rentals. Fifty per cent of those people renting public housing in Victoria are in arrears because of this Government's policies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Is it a fact that Australia has nearly the highest rate of youth unemployment in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries? Is it also a fact that 60 per cent of our unemployed are under the age of 25 years? Is it also a fact that Italy is the only other country in the OECD where the unemployment rate has risen above the 60 per cent figure? Why has Australia performed so poorly in providing jobs for young people in comparison with the rest of the developed world? 
I support the argument that has been put by various members of the Opposition with regard to this clause. Our concern is expressed in this context: Throughout a great deal of Australia's history as a nationcertainly in the postwar period- we have been pre-occupied with the question of so-called subversion. I shall quote some of the final sentences of Richard Hall's book on security services which deal with the concern that we have about this clause. Referring to domestic security, he wrote: 
It must reject the whole obsession about subversion cultivated over the past two generations. A free society can and should suppress violence but when it suppresses free inquiry it is no longer a free society. 
When one expresses concern about this clause and about the word 'ultimately' within the context of the clause I think one is simply trying to underline, in the course of this debate, what has been the experience of people who have been associated with all sorts of movements that have come into conflict in our society. They have been labelled by the state or by other sections of society as being involved in actions or movements that threaten the whole basis of the state. It seems to me that that problem has been encountered so often in the past. This definition ought to make some genuine attempt to come to terms with the problem. This clause ought to seek to distinguish between those people who certainly are concerned about transformation or change in our society in some respect, perhaps in fundamental respects, and those people who might be classified as violent revolutionaries. Quite clearly this clause does not allow one to make any such distinction. It refers to 'activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to the use of force '. I think that the use of the word 'force' as an additional word to the word 'violence' is open to some question. 
I had a look at the dictionary of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and I saw that one of the definitions of the word 'force ' is simply to exert one's strengths to the utmost. Some people in our society passionately believe in causes such as the saving of some rain forests in New South Wales or the prevention of their houses being destroyed by the building of a freeway. In my own electorate I was involved in a peaceful demonstration which caused something like 400 police to attend to deal with a relative handful of local residents whose only concern was the construction of a freeway that would destroy their homes and pollute their environment. That brought about that kind of display of force. People got the impression that somehow this rather scraggly group of local residents was a group of revolutionaries. They were photographed on that occasion. They were just members of a local group concerned about a particular action that was being taken that would have an effect on their homes and on the environment in which they were living. One can mention many issues- in a society which is divided on many issues- on which people have exerted themselves to the utmost to defend their interests, to push a particular point of view or perspective. Surely within the context of a democratic society that is their right. 
Yet the use of the word 'ultimately ' in terms in which it is used in this clause leads to possibilities. As previous speakers have suggested, there is no objectivity in this clause; it provides for a subjective judgment to be made between different groups of people as to whether one group of people is ultimately concerned to overthrow the state. Even that requires some definition. I guess that many Australians are concerned to see some quite fundamental reforms made to the nature of the Australian state. For example, many would prefer the state to become a republican state as opposed to being currently a monarchy. 
-Certainly. That point of view certainly involves fundamental changes to the constitutional government of the Commonwealth and it might be seen by some people to be quite revolutionary. One can imagine people who advocate that point of view being caught up within this definition of subversion. It is extremely important in a situation such as this that the Parliament attempts to get some real consensus on critical terms. Last night when the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  spoke in the course of this debate he indicated some real dangers associated with the legislation. He, a former Prime Minister, claimed that he had been denied information by the DirectorGeneral of ASIO. That seems to me to indicate that there is deep division within this Parliament about this legislation. Quite clearly, there are wide divisions of opinion concerning the effect of this clause. 
In my view this clause has been drawn too wide. Inevitably it will affect groups of people who certainly have no revolutionary purpose, no purpose whatever to change the nature of the state of this society. But in the terms of this definition their actions may be seen to represent some kind of threat to the status quo, to the established order. Under this legislation it is open for people in security organisations to interpret the actions of such people as actions which will, in the final analysis, lead to the overthrow of the state- to the overthrow of the government of the Commonwealth, of a State or of a territory. It is simply a chain reaction. How much subjectivity can there be in respect of the kind of imaginative judgment that has to be made to determine that somehow, because of specific action or a set of circumstances, a person or a group of people represents a threat? Yet consistently, throughout the history of this Organisation, that is the sort of judgment that has been made. Time and again innocent people have been photographed, their telephones have been intercepted and they have been pursued by this Organisation without any evidence whatsoever of their involvement in an attempt to overthrow the State or to produce fundamental change. 
That is the history of this Organisation and it is set out in the Hope report. That report refers to the dubiousness of the evidence collected and the way that people's lives have been destroyed because of the existence of the earlier legislation. The situation is not resolved by this legislation. We know that in the past this Organisation has used the legislation in a totally one-sided way. It has been used in a way which has been directed at picking up people who are on about social reform, people who are concerned about class distinction in this society, about inequalities and the deprivation of rights. 
People who are concerned about such things as Aboriginal welfare and those who are concerned about the deprivation of rights. In the past those people have been picked up by this Organisation and treated as though they were subversives. That sort of thing will happen again if we allow the defintion to remain unaltered. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Did his Department advertise 43 positions (as recommended by the Galbally Report, 'Migrant Services and Programmes') in December 1978. 
If so, is it a fact that none of the advertised positions in Victoria have yet been filled. 
How long will it be before the positions are filled. 
What are the reasons for delay. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) For what period was the Department of Social Security regional office situated at the Northland Shopping Complex, Victoria. 
What space was available to the regional office at Northland. 
3 ) Why has the Department closed this regional office. 
What new arrangements have been made to service the area since the closure of the Northland Office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
What are the current rates of (a) unemployment benefits and (b) family allowances for (i) a single adult and (ii) a married adult with 2 children. 
What does a single adult receive by way of unemployment benefits expressed as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
What does a married adult with 2 dependent children receive by way of, (a) unemployment benefits and (b) family allowances expressed as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
Is the Minister able to provide the comparable percentages for single and married adults (2 dependent children) in (a) the United States of America; (b) Canada; (c) Japan; (d) New Zealand; (e) France; (f) Germany; (g) the United Kingdom; (h) Sweden and (j) Austria. 
Are Australian levels of benefits lower than for other comparable countries: if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) What statistical information is available on the incidence of asbestos-related diseases as they relate to occupational health. 
) What regulations cover the use of asbestos in industry. 
Has his Department undertaken any research into the question of asbestos-related diseases as they relate to occupational health; if so, what are the results. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What percentage of value added was accounted for by the largest 200 manufacturing industries in (a) 1977 and (b) 1978. 
How many of the largest 200 manufacturing enterprises were foreign controlled in 1977-78. 
What percentage of the total value added was accounted for by foreign controlled enterprises in (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and (c) 1978. 
What percentage of (a) employment, (b) wages and salaries and (c) fixed capital expenditure was accounted for by the foreign controlled enterprises in (i) 1976, (ii) 1977 and(iii) 1978. 
What was the percentage of foreign controlled enterprises that are from the (a) United States of America and (b) United Kingdom in (i) 1976, (ii) 1977 and (iii) 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Can he say how many enterprises contributed towards expenditure on mineral (excluding petroleum) exploration in(a) 1976,(b) 1977and(c) 1978. 
How many of the enterprises referred to in part (1 ) were foreign controlled during the same period. 
What percentage of expenditure on mineral exploration (excluding petroleum) came from foreign owned sources in(a)1976,(b) 1977and(c) 1978. 
How many of these foreign owned enterprises were enterprises from the (a) United States of America and (b) United Kingdom in (i) 1976, (ii) 1977 and (iii) 1978. 
What was the proportion of expenditure on mineral exploration (excluding petroleum) which was funded by foreign controlled enterprises in each State in (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and(c) 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Can he say how many enterprises contributed towards expenditure on petroleum exploration in Australia in (a) 1976,(b) 1977 and(c) 1978. 
If so, what was the total of this contribution in each year. 
How many of these enterprises were foreign controlled. 
What percentage of the total contribution in (a) 1976, (b) 1977 and (c) 1978 was funded by foreign controlled enterprises. 
How many of these foreign controlled enterprises were from the (a) United States of America and (b) United Kingdom in(i) 1976, (ii) 1977and(iii) 1978. 
What was the percentage of the contributions by each of the enterprises referred to in part ( 5 ). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Based on balances outstanding on finance agreements, what was the percentage of foreign control of finance companies in Australia during (a) 1977 and (b) 1978. 
What was the percentage of control by companies from the (a) United States of America and (b) United Kingdom during(i) 1977 and (ii) 1978. 
-In case the people who are now listening to the broadcast did not hear what the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said, I remind them that he said that this year the average taxpayer in Australia will pay an extra $7.50 every time he goes to the petrol pump to fill the tank of his motor car. He will pay that in petrol tax. That is an illustration of the responsibility of this Government. That is an example of what it is doing in relation to taxation. In fact, for the first time since the McMahon Government, a government is reintroducing into the Australian lexicon taxation by stealth. It is introducing it by imposing increased charges for petrol. Despite the fact that Australia is about 85 per cent selfsufficient in motor spirit, Australians are being asked to pay the import parity price of oil. They are being asked to pay massive sums of money to the Federal Government because, contrary to what the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  suggested, this Government has got itself deeper and deeper into hock. The successive deficits of this Government are in total much higher than the deficit which existed under the Labor Government. This Government is not only a high tax government; it is a government which year-by-year is putting this country deeper and deeper into hock. The reason for this is that the Government is not able to do what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said as the Leader of the Opposition in 1975, the Liberals were quite sure they could do. I remind the House of some of the things that the Prime Minister said in December 1975. We hear a good deal of claptrap in this House about what may or may not have happened in 1973, 1974 and 1975. We are not often reminded by the Prime Minister of what he said when he was making his claim for power. He said: 'Australia needs an immediate change of direction. What can be done immediately and must be done is to establish, for the first time in three years, sound and honest management of Australia's affairs'. The words sound and honest management of Australia's affairs' are very interesting today. Today we heard something about the honesty of Ministers in this Government and we have seen something of the dishonesty of the Prime Minister of this country. 
I want to refer briefly in this adjournment debate tonight to my experience in relation to unemployment programs in my electorate. A great deal has been said in this House about the way this Government continues to maintain a concern for the unemployed and provide support for the unemployed through a variety of programs. I want to say that, in relation to my electorate, it is my experience that a great deal of my time has, in fact, been forced to be devoted to rescuing schemes for which the Government has provided funds. Last year I was involved in endeavouring to rescue the West Heidelberg Youth Program which was funded under the National Employment and Training Scheme. The guidelines for that program were changed. It was a program which the people in West Heidelberg regarded as extremely valuable in terms of dealing with a group of disadvantaged young people. In fact, it was eliminated. In the course of its elimination, a very talented youth worker was lost to that community. Whilst the program was subsequently re-established after several months, that worker was lost to the program. 
Later in the year the Northcote Community Youth Support Scheme program was also discontinued or failed to achieve funding because the people concerned with that program had the temerity to question the very restrictive guidelines that governed this scheme. Over a period they were involved in protesting about those guidelines. They lost their funding, and they went for a period of four months before that funding was restored. The program now operates, but because of the gap it was necessary to recruit completely new staff. Many of the young people dropped out of the program because it was not operating, and contact had to be reestablished. As we know, there is very little in the way of security employment associated with CYSS programs. It is difficult to recruit staff who are skilled in working with the kind of young people associated with program centres. 
Recently I was approached by the people associated with the PUSH project- another CYSS project in West Heidelberg- who told me that rather than funding being increased, as the Minister was explaining today, they had a cut of $7,000 in real terms from funding for last year. They were not supplied with sufficient funds for vital equipment to continue to carry out the programs that they had developed over the past year. 
I wanted to refer particularly to the latest crisis in what seems to be a series of crises that afflict these various programs. It concerns the Special Youth Employment Training Scheme, which is part of the Employment Program for Unemployed Youth, and a program which operates in association with the East Preston Technical School. Yesterday I was visited by two young people who had been involved with that program for a four-week period. They told me that the factory in which the program was operating had been closed down and was up for lease because the Victorian administration of the program had discovered that as a result of this year's Budget there was not sufficient funding to maintain all of the programs even for the balance of 1979. Their program had been cut down without notice. When I spoke to the State administration about the situation I was told that there had been a misunderstanding and it was unfortunate that that program had been cut down. It could give me no assurance that the program would be resumed. It said that there had been 50-odd applications for projects for next year, of which only fourteen would be approved- a reduction of 50 per cent in that program in Victoria. That is a 50 per cent reduction in EPUY programs alone. There are 27 projects operating in Victoria this year, and there will be only 14 projects operating next year. 
The Government makes a great deal about its training programs and what it is doing in that regard. I can quite honestly say to the Government that nobody in my electorate believes that the Government is doing anything in terms of maintaining substantial programs, offering security of employment to people or offering security even for the trainees who embark upon programs and then find that they are suspended in mid-stream. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
How many cases dealing with Medibank infringements by professionals are awaiting prosecution with the Attorney-General 's Department. 
What categories do these infringements cover. 
How long have these cases been pending or under consideration. 
What are the reasons for delay in decisions on these cases. 
5 ) When will action be taken on these cases. 
It is extraordinary that we ought to be debating a clause like this which is so fundamental to the whole legislation and which strikes at the basis of the question of authority and the system of democracy as it operates in this country, where a DirectorGeneral of an organisation whose record is not, to say the least, particularly good in terms of safeguarding the rights of the individual is, in terms of this clause, able to deny to the Parliament, and to the Minister, information which has been collected by the organisation. I think it is important to refer to the extreme powers which are given to this Organisation. It is quite extraordinary, given those powers, and indeed given the attempts that have been devised in relation to legislation to make the use of those powers subject to the Minister, that this clause, vaguely worded as it is, provides the possibility for a Director-General, for a single individual, to have absolute discretion in relation to the way that that information which may be collected- as someone has suggested, by a form of legal burglary- in the most clandestine way can reflect on people and organisations whose purpose may be fundamentally innocent. Nevertheless the Director-General, an individual, is in a sense quite clearly responsible for whether that information is divulged to the Minister, even, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  has suggested, to the Attorney-General and therefore is in no sense finally responsible to the Parliament. 
A great deal has been said about the way in which this legislation tries to move towards making this security organisation an organisation which is more subject to ministerial authority. Yet all that there may be in terms of progress, it would seem to me, in this legislation is vitiated by this clause 8 and particularly by paragraph (c). It is made quite clear in the clause where it states: 
In the performance of his functions under the Act, the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the Minister, but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General . . . concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organization to a Minister, Department or authority of the Commonwealth. 
So certainly it is covered in certain respects in terms of the way that information may have been collected. Certainly the people who are going to be involved in the monitoring and recording of telephone conversations or opening and inspecting mail are required in terms of the legislation to seek a warrant from the Minister. But when it gets down to the question of the use of that information, we have this paragraph (c) which allows the Director-General so much absolute discretion. 
I think we need to look at this legislation, not in terms of the particular personality that might currently occupy the position df DirectorGeneral and not in terms of the particular character or quality of the Government which is currently empowered, but we need to look at it in terms of its being legislation which is going to cover successive governments and which is going to cover successive Directors-General. As we are well aware, when one looks at the history of this Organisation it has taken on quite different characters in relation to different administrations. We do, of course, as we have been reminded constantly by the Government, have to consider extreme situations. So it is quite possible to conceive of a situation in which the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was, in a real sense, pursuing a quite different course of action than was the policy of a particular government. So it is quite possible to conceive that a Director-General would have, in terms of the interests as he saw them, a real need to withhold information from a particular Minister at a certain time. It is not stretching the imagination too far to conceive of that possibility. 
The clause is drawn, in my view, far too widely. The clause strikes at the basis of liberty. It is interesting that there has been so little defence by the Government of this legislation. One gets the feeling that the Government is somewhat embarrassed by this legislation, that it is not prepared to come into the chamber and debate the legislation even to the extent that it was debated in the Senate where there may be, perhaps, stronger traditions of civil liberty and stronger Government members who are concerned about protecting the rights of the individual. But in this chamber the Government has been prepared to sit by and watch the Opposition raising quite substantial objections to the nature of the legislation very often in terms of basic tenets of Liberal Party philosophy. We see little or no sign of the Government's being prepared to come in and defend, in terms of rational argument, this legislation. I think the reason for that is that particular clauses of the legislation are absolutely undefendable and, of those clauses, it would seem to me that clause 8 sub-clause (2) paragraph (c) is an important case. 
It is simply indefensible in terms of the philosophy of the Government historically to defend the withholding of information collected, quite probably in a clandestine manner, from the Minister of the day. That possibility, implicit in this clause, simply cannot be defended. Of course, there is a great difference, as we all know, between the philosophy of the Liberal-National Country Party governments and their practice. What is characteristic and true of this clause is, to some extent, in conformity with the practice of conservative governments, historically speaking. Conservative governments have been prepared to use organisations like ASIO or simply to stand by and let those organisations deal with people with whom the Government has no sympathy or understanding. It seems to me that as long as the Government is prepared to allow a clause like this to stand within legislation like this, we cannot really believe that the cant about individual liberties, the cant about democracy and the rights of freedom of speech and the right to organise, is anything more than cant or anything more than hypocrisy. In the final analysis what we have done in terms of this clause is surrender the use of information collected in the way that I have been describing to the discretion of a particular individual whose views may be as mad as 
Hoover's, whose views may be totally unacceptable generally in terms of the Australian community and who may, simply by the use of this clause and the freedom that it gives to a Director-General, be able, in a sense, to use his power against the best interests of the Australian people. 
It has consistently been the view of the Opposition that the best judge finally of what is in the interests of the Australian people is the Parliament, and that Ministers responsible to the Parliament can make that kind of judgment. But when we have a judgment which ought to be properly the responsibility of the Parliament devolved to a particular individual- not in terms of next year or the year after but in terms of the future- we are creating serious problems for ourselves. I support the amendment, which asks for the removal of paragraph (c) of clause 8. 
-Earlier this year, in May, the Fifth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was held in Manila. It followed earlier conferences held in Geneva, New Delhi and Santiago and a conference in Nairobi in 1976. The Fifth Conference was attended by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland).  This suggested that the Conference was regarded as of considerable importance by the Australian Government. Idealists might be prepared to believe that the Conference was important to Australian leaders because of its relevance to the movement towards the new international economic order to which the Australian Prime Minister and the Australian Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  have given frequent lip service. 
This concept was firmly placed on the agenda of international politics at the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly held in 1974. Briefly, it was argued at that Conference, that the previously existing rules of the international economic game tended to be devised by those with economic power and to benefit those with economic power. Thus, a demand was made by the less developed countries for reform covering the following areas: Improved access to markets in the industrial countries for manufactured exports from the developing countries; revisions to marketing structures and pricing mechanisms for primary commodities; changes in the international financial and monetary systems; access for developing countries to the technology of the developed countries; an increase in foreign aid or other resource transfers to the developing countries; and a restructuring of developing countries relationships with multinational corporations. In a sense, none of these demands were new, they are rather a summary of demands, advanced in the post-war period by less developed countries, upon the more industrialised countries, which it is still hoped might one day be met. 
Since 1974, discussions concerning these demands have been held at a variety of international conferences. It is within this context that this Parliament should seek to evaluate the UNCTAD conference because of its scale and potential importance to the developing worldmore than 5,000 delegates representing 159 nations attended- and its potential to mark significant progress towards achieving the objective of a new international economic order. 
So far there has been no real attempt to provide the Parliament with any kind of evaluation of the Conference. However, from the evidence which is available, it would seem that the Conference did not represent any kind of a resounding success. It would seem that little or no progress was made at the Conference on any of the principal issues which appear to be central to the achievement of any kind of new international economic order. It was generally agreed that this failure was due to the adamant refusal of developed countries to make any worthwhile concessions or engage in fruitful dialogue. 
I refer briefly to each of the objectives set out at the Sixth Special Session of the United Nations in 1974 as they relate to UNCTAD. The first concerned improved access to markets in industrial countries. At the Sixth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly, less developed countries emphasised their need for improved access to markets in developed countries through the progressive removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers and restrictive business practices. Developed economies were to make appropriate adjustments in their economies so as to facilitate the expansion and diversification of imports from developing countries and thereby permit a rational, just and equitable international division of labour. In fact the tendency during the period between 1974 and 1979 has been one of increasing restrictions by developed countries on many of the products of the less developed nations. As a 1978 report by the UNCTAD Secretariat stated: 
Restrictions on trade have proliferated. Starting in a clandestine way, they now tend to form an alarming pattern of protectionism . . . covering almost every area of manufacturing industry. 
At the Conference the Prime Minister, recognising this trend, spoke out strongly against the use of protectionist devices by developed countries. He stated: 
These protectionist measures must be resisted. If they are not they will put the future growth of developing countries into jeopardy. They will make a mockery of talk of interdependence . . . 
In the face of such strong words, the criticism of Australia and other countries by the  President  of the World Bank would have been shattering if the Prime Minister had stayed to hear him.  Mr McNamara,  commenting on the new protectionism which has emerged since 1976, condemned the recent multifibre arrangements which call for quotas on textiles and clothing to grow at a rate of 6 per cent or more. Apart from the European Economic Community, he singled out for criticism Australia, Canada, Norway and Sweden which have tightened their quotas or imposed new ones to limit developing country exports of textiles and clothing. He also noted that new quotas and orderly marketing agreements limiting developing country exports of footwear have been imposed by Australia, Canada, and a number of other countries. The reality was that at UNCTAD the rhetoric of Prime Minister Fraser was not and is not reconcilable with the Government's domestic policies and that on the whole, the other developed countries were at least more honest in failing to support measures to ensure that greater access was provided for the exports of developing countries to the developed world. Protectionism was in fact a non-issue at the conference because of the failure of the developed world to agree to any of the substantive proposals placed before them. 
Secondly, I refer to the terms of trade and international commodity prices. One important set of demands made by less developed countries in 1974 concerned the prices of their exports and their export earnings. Less developed countries sought to raise the prices of their commodities, manufactures and services which they exported, prevent marked fluctuations in the prices of their products, and establish a link between the prices of exports of developing countries and the prices of the imports that they took from the developed countries. To this end the sixth special session recommended an integrated program of commodity agreements covering products of an export interest to less developed countries. 
Buffer stocks were to be created within the framework of commodity arrangements to control prices. We are aware, I think, that at least one of the minor achievements of the conference was that it did agree to the creation of the common fund with two windows, one dealing with the question of buffer stocks and the other dealing with questions of market research and the boosting of exports. But while some progress has been achieved in this area, for which the Prime Minister has claimed some credit for Australia, the reality is that it is generally agreed that it will still be some years before it comes into operation. The scale of funding is considerably less than that originally envisaged, and many countries, including Australia, have not yet announced a contribution. Progress has been extremely slow in relation to achievement with respect to individual commodities. The developed countries will still be in control of the overall direction of the fund and with the onset of international recession during the years in which negotiations have been taking place, support for the concept of buffer stocks has been receding in interest in the developed countries.  Sir Arthur  Lewis has pointed out: 
Producers want agreements when prices are low in order to raise them, when prices are high, consumers in the industrial world want agreements, buffer stocks, and increased production in order to hold them down. 
It would seem that the clear lack of sympathy shown at UNCTAD by the developed countries reflected that problem. Australia as a 'primary commodity' exporter was in a more sympathetic position because we share that characteristic with the developed world. It is not surprising then that we support the concept. 
I move very briefly to other areas of the conference. Very little progress in fact was made. In 1975, service on debts to developing countries amounted to nearly $26,000m, while official assistance constituted only $ 1,890m. This massive debt, which in the current recession has often been refinanced by various developing countries, represents a massive burden. The conference failed to do anything about that. It failed to do anything about the structure of the International Monetary Fund, the World Development Bank and other bodies which control the flow of finance and interest rates to developed countries. 
On the question of access to science and technology, again the conference made almost no progress. There have been two major conferences on this issue this year. There was UNCTAD in May which made only a general declaratory statement. There was the conference in Austria in August which offered $2 50m to countries which together represent the Third World and which control only 2 per cent of the funding for research and development in the entire world. On the question of aid, the conference was able to offer no substantial comfort to the developing countries. Indeed we must note that since 1975, Australia, which makes so much of what it is doing for the developed world, has dropped its aid from 0.6 per cent of the gross national product to less than 0.45 per cent of the gross national product, a remarkable position. At the conference the Prime Minister said that there was a link between aid performance and economic growth. Clearly, in Australia, under the Fraser Government, our aid performance has declined substantially, as has the overall health of the economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-I too would like to comment on the role of the  Chairman  and the staff of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. It is a joint party committee. It provided its members with the opportunity to express their differing views and to take account of numerous amendments to legislation that sometimes involved substantial rewriting. I am thankful for the opportunity that I was given as a member of the Committee. While working on the Committee we were constantly aware of the pressures that existed in terms of the Government. There were pressures on the Government, particularly from the Australian Mining Industry Council and its affiliates, for quite drastic changes in relation to environmental legislation. As the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  suggested, those pressures were not restricted to industry groups outside the Government. Within the Government itself there were signs of considerable pressures to the extent that extremely important departments such as the Department of the Treasury and the Department of National Development- critical departments in terms of their interests in and their management of the environment- were extremely reluctant to appear before the Committee. That contrasted somewhat with the joint party atmosphere which prevailed within the Committee. The Committee was not able to get the fullest co-operation from departments of the Government. 
Whilst the Committee received considerable evidence from the Mining Industry Council, the Council and its various State affiliates were not able to come up with a single example of a major mining project in Australia that has failed to go ahead because of environmental legislation, except for Fraser Island. I am not sure whether that reflects well on governments, environmentalists or what, but the reality is that despite all the evidence we received it did not appear to us that the Mining Industry Council really had a substantial case for major changes in legislation. 
I refer briefly to a further agreement by Committee members that the Commonwealth has a direct and continuing responsibility in relation to preserving the environment across Australia. Certainly within the Committee it was recognised that that responsibility cannot be exercised by the Commonwealth Government alone. There was considerable emphasis on the work done by various States. Nevertheless, the Committee agreed- this is stated within two of the recommendations- that when it comes to matters of national significance the Commonwealth has an important role. Chapter 2 of the report sets out the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. Certainly it is the view of the Committee, as expressed in the report, that those powers are considerable. On the other hand the Committee recognised that the States properly have a responsibility and it recognised agreements with the various States. But one has to express some concern that of all the States only Victoria so far has comprehensive comparable legislation to that of the Commonwealth on its books. I believe that such legislation is in the process of consideration in New South Wales, but in no other States is there comparable legislation to that which exists at the Commonwealth level, and that is to be regretted. 
I would like to refer to a number of other issues but in the few minutes available to me in this discussion I will refer to what I believe is perhaps one of the most important issues to come out of the inquiry. We received evidence and were aware of the fact that in Australia at the present time a number of major projects which are of very great environmental significance are being developed. Paragraph 133 of the Committee's report refers to the development of petro-chemical complexes, aluminium smelters and natural gas projects. Quite clearly those projects which are capital intensive and energy intensive must have a massive effect on the environment in the broadest sense. 
The Committee received evidence from the Conservation Council of Western Australia on mining projects in the Darling Ranges and alumina projects which are being developed by Alcoa of Australia Ltd in that State. The evidence suggested that the effects of the projects are of major significance. Those mining projects are important environmentally for several reasons. I emphasise this point because it illustrates the development of our understanding of the environment and for that reason it is important to refer to it. We received evidence on the Alcoa mining projects in terms of their impact on the jarrah forests in Western Australia which are concentrated in the Darling Ranges. We received evidence on the possible impact of that mining development on Perth's water supply. Obviously the Committee was aware of the enormous energy requirements to develop the projects. Although the report does not make a specific recommendation in relation to those developments that Alcoa is pursuing, it does in paragraph 141 say: 
Given the significance of these proposals in terms of national energy considerations as well as local impacts the Committee believes that a public inquiry into these proposals under the terms of the Impact of Proposals Act may have  be justified 
I wanted to emphasise and draw attention to that section of the report because I believe that this Parliament will have to consider the long-term effects of many of these projects. We will have to understand that the environment concerns not simply the matter of protecting trees and rare species but it involves the survival of the country. The Australian environment is fragile. Never before has there been a scale of population and development as exists at present, let alone what is proposed. We need to proceed with very great care. I believe that the Committee's report drawing attention to those issues opens up an area of environment inquiry that ought to be pursued. It is regrettable that this Government in the time that it has been in office has not initiated a single public inquiry despite the scale of these developments. This Government has not in the last two Budgets allocated a dollar for holding such inquiries. 
I have enjoyed being a member of the Committee and working on producing what I believe is an extremely important report of the Committee. It is the first with which I have been concerned. The Committee will need to give further consideration to many issues. I commend the report to the House. I think it is an important report. I commend it to the Government. I hope that the Government will fully take the report into consideration before it makes any decisions in relation to changes to environmental legislation. 
-Despite the fierce rhetoric of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who is obviously an aspirant for the leadership of the National Party - 
The favourite aspirant for the leadership of the National Party, the Australian Labor Party has no apologies to make for what it achieved in relation to pensions and benefits in the brief period that it was permitted to hold office in Australia. Between November 1972 and November 1975, pensions rose by 94 per cent while the consumer price index rose by 50 per cent. When Labor was in office it achieved the greatest real gains, in terms of pensions and benefits, of any government in the post-war period. That is undeniable; it is a fact. 
More broadly speaking, I think one can argue that during the period when that Government was in office the fact was not simply that the incomes of pensioners and beneficiaries rose in a direct sense but also that what one might well describe in a real sense as a social wage was achieved with gains not hitherto experienced in the post-war period or at least since the time of the Chifley and Curtin governments. Those achievements require no apology. They are a matter of record. The working people and pensioners of this country recognise that Labor achieved a very great deal in terms of the redistribution of income in the time when it was in power. 
One should not view the level of payments in respect of pensions and benefits as some kind of competition between the political parties. There is a long history of conservative governments being prepared to spend sometimes very significant amounts of money on social welfare. The reason for that is that, historically speaking, social welfare expenditure has operated to a greater or lesser extent as an instrument of social control. It was A. J. Balfour, a conservative politician in Britain, the man who later led the defeat of the British General Strike in 1 926, who said: 
Social legislation is not only different from socialist legislation; it is its most direct opposite and effective antidote. 
That is to say, it is possible on occasions to use welfare expenditures as a means of damping down the fires of discontent. Particularly at a time of economic recession, that temptation will be open to any government that is in power. When we talk about the increased amounts that have necessarily been spent on welfare in the time when this Government has been in power, we have only to look at the unemployment statistics to understand why. This Government has been not only a reactionary government, but also the most recessionary government that we have experienced in this country since the 1 930s. We have had to spend considerably increased amounts of money on welfare because unemployment creates a potentially revolutionary situation, a situation in which conflict of very serious proportions is produced in society. To deal with that conflict, the Government has had to spend additional amounts of money in relation to some pensions and benefits. 
The Government was not so generous to pensioners last year when it eliminated the indexation of pensions. In the time that is available to me tonight, I will very briefly draw the distinction which is present in the policies of this Government between those who might be described as the deserving poor and the undeserving poor. This is not a 20th century government; it is a throw-back to the 19th century when that kind of distinction was made as a matter of practice. In terms of what we have seen this Government do in relation to unemployment beneficiaries, the analogy between 19th century thought and progressive 20th century thought is the one to draw. 
The number of people out of work has increased dramatically while this Government has been in power, particularly young people and older workers. The Government has sought to introduce into the social security system and into the employment service a method of relating pensions and benefits to a whole range of discriminatory actions. One could talk about that aspect in two ways. One could talk about all of the benefits that are applicable to the wider range of age pensioners, invalid pensioners, single parents and such groups. One can then contrast that with what has happened in relation to unemployment beneficiaries. 
There is a whole series of ways in which unemployment beneficiaries have been the worse off. For example, they are not eligible for the supplementary rent allowances which are paid to other pensioners and those who have been in receipt of the sickness benefits for more than six weeks. They, or their spouses, may not earn more than $6 a week without a dollar for dollar deduction from their benefit. Other pensioners may earn $20 a week without penalty and after this year's Budget provisions come into force they can earn more than that without loss of income. So, there has been that kind of discrimination. 
Allowances for dependent spouses and the children of unemployment beneficiaries are taxable. These recipients receive no fringe benefits. They have no telephone, travel, rates, pharmaceutical or other concessions. 
The whole range of benefits and fringe benefits available to people who are poor, people who are social service beneficiaries, is being denied to the unemployed because the unemployed are to be treated as people who are the nondeserving poor, people who somehow, one way or another, are attempting to avoid their dutythat is, to participate in the work force. It does not matter that the work simply is not available and that the number of jobless outruns the number of vacancies by 10, 20 or 30 to a single vacancy. Nevertheless, the unemployed have to be treated in that 19th century way as potential bludgers, people who are somehow seeking to get something which is not their right from society. 
Alan Jordan, commenting on that view of the work test in the 1 9th century, stated: 
At the time, there was fairly clearly a basic assumption that the claimant for relief was a probable malingerer, and that the onus of proving he was not a malingerer was on him. There was no presumptive right to support. Behind it all was a lurking fear that if people could live without work, even on a miserably low level, many would choose to do so. Inconsistently, although the poor were to be watched carefully for signs of idleness, nobody worried much about the idle rich. 
What was said there about the 19th century is just as true today. We can look at all of the additional restrictions that have been placed on unemployment beneficiaries since this Government came to power. Let me mention some of them. 
From January 1976, single people over the age of 18 years could be forced to change their area of residence in order to find a job. If the Commonwealth Employment Service thought someone was adopting an unacceptable style in appearance, dress or attitude he or she could fail the work test. Clause 41 of the Bill amends section 120 of the principal Act by adding a new sub-section (2) which allows the DirectorGeneral of Social Services to postpone benefits over such periods as he thinks fit. From March 1976 skilled workers who had not found an appropriate job within six weeks were required to accept an unskilled job. People who became unemployed voluntarily had to wait six months before they were eligible for benefits. In August 1977, it was announced that as from November 1 977 benefits were to be paid two weeks in arrears. In October 1977, it was proposed that those who were stood down as a result of strikes but who were not direct participants should not be eligible for the unemployment benefit. That proposition is before us in the legislation that we are debating tonight. 
In November 1977, new administrative guidelines for proof of identification were laid down. In February 1978, there was a direction that all 250 field officers of the Department of Social Security concentrate on unemployment beneficiaries and carry out door-to-door checks. In August 1978, there was a continuation of staff ceilings, causing delays in the administration of pensions and benefits. From July 1979 people were expected to accept suitable short term, temporary and part time work. Unemployment benefit recipients were to be interviewed at least once every three months. That history illustrates the thrust of this Government in relation to the unemployed. There is no sympathy; there is no compassion. They are regarded as people who are to be controlled and harassed at every point. In last year's Budget the Government introduced a measure whereby it increased the staff of the Department of Social Security at a cost of $100m, simply for the purpose of checking on people, harassing the unemployed and other perhaps similarly undeserving or potentially undeserving social security beneficiaries. Recently in an Estimates Committee I asked the Department what had happened as a result of that employment of staff. There was not a single fact that a member of the Minister's Department was able to put in front of me. There was no idea of what the effect of it had been. We know that that Department, of all the government departments, was the only department that got an increase in staff. It got the increase in staff specifically to harass the unemployed. 
If we turn to what is being proposed in this legislation tonight in relation to unemployment beneficiaries, we see that it is simply a continuation of that kind of story of welfare, not in terms of the achievement of justice, not in terms of delivering to people what is their right, but rather in the form of an attempt further to harass people and make them feel that somehow they have to get more into line and that somehow they are being deviant. The two particular measures that I refer to are, first of all, the changes in relation to the postponement of unemployment benefits. The Director-General under the postponement provisions of section 120 will now withhold unemployment benefits for a period of not less than six weeks and for a maximum of 12 weeks. This authority is to be delegated, not to senior and responsible members of regional administrations of the Department but to whoever is on hand, even the most junior officers who, in consultation with the Commonwealth 
Employment Service, will make a decision which could cost young people or older people hundreds of dollars over a period of weeks. The people who will come to that situation in which they have no assets and have no backing are to be treated in that particular way on the basis of quite subjective judgments, for example, concerning their voluntary unemployment. Which officer of what department will take responsibility for saying to a person, who says that he has had to leave a particular job because he could not stand it any longer, that he will not be eligible for unemployment benefits for a period of six to 12 weeks. Who is to take that responsibility on his head? 
I wish to say to this House of Parliament that I am getting tired, as a member of parliament, of having to deal with unemployed people who, by reason of government policies, are being driven to the point where we now have more and more suicides, where more and more people are getting hooked on drugs, more and more marriages are breaking up, and more and more people are lacking any capacity to relate to people in the most basic sense let alone relate to a working environment. We are destroying people's capacity to operate normally within the community simply to create conditions where people will become more passive and will not fight back. That is what this Government is about. That is what Fraserism is all about. It is about the politics of repression; it is about the regulation of the poor; it is about distinguishing between the undeserving and the deserving poor; it is about reducing pensions and benefits for those people who Malcolm Fraser thinks might be a threat or who might throw a tomato or egg at him. They have every right to do so, because he is responsible for ruining the lives of what might be described as a generation of young people. That is what this legislation is about. 
One can turn to the other aspect of the legislation which deals with the denial of unemployment benefits to people who are unemployed as a result of a strike which affects their union. Something which could happen in Western Australia could affect a person working in Tasmania. That person could become unemployed and lose his unemployment benefit through no fault of his own and through no action which he has taken. He is regarded as undeserving. That has nothing to do with social welfare. That is political; that is industrial. It has nothing to do with welfare, and yet that is part of this social security legislation. This legislation is vindictive legislation. Let us not have talk about the good aspects of this legislation. Let us get to the heart of it. That is what this Government is about. It is about social control; it is about repression. There is not an ounce of justice in this Government in any real sense whatsoever. This legislation ought to be severely amended. I hope that the Opposition's amendment will carry the support of the House. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 
-No. I raise the matter in relation - 
Yes. 
I wish to raise a matter of privilege concerning the responsibilities of public servants to provide information to committees of this House. I refer particularly to two reports in the Press yesterday. I refer, firstly, to the comments of  Mr Geoff  Duncan on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  in which he concluded a report on Treasury documents concerning environmental legislation with, according to the transcript, the following words: 
. that it- 
That is, Treasury- has refused point blank to indicate its attitudes to a back bench committee which has just reported on the adequacy of the legislation. 
I refer also to an article by Paul Malone on the same matter, in the  Australian Financial Review  of 22 October, in which the following sentence appears: 
The Treasury refused to supply the joint parliamentary inquiry with its opinion on the EPA - 
The Environmental Protection Act- preferring a behind-the-scenes manoeuvre to get its views across. 
The authors of those two reports are presumably referring to several sentences in the published report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation entitled 'Environmental Protection: Adequacy of Legislative and Administrative Arrangements'. On page 24 of the report the following comments appear: 
The Committee sought information from the Department of the Treasury on attitudes towards the Act and comments on the amendments necessary to improve the operations of the Act. The Committee regrets that the Department of the Treasury refused to supply it with any information. 
The Committee wrote to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on 21 February, inviting a submission from his Department on environmental legislative arrangements. The Treasurer, in his reply of 27 March, noted that some of the legislation is currently under review by the Government and that his Department's involvement with a number of the Acts listed is insignificant. For these reasons he did not believe that it would be of any benefit to the Committee if the Treasury were to prepare a formal submission for the consideration of the Committee. However, the Treasurer did acknowledge that committee debates may be of assistance to the Government in reaching decisions in this area. 
He said: 
I would of course be happy to have Treasury respond to any specific points or questions that the Committee may wish to raise. 
Accordingly, on 5 June the  Clerk  to the Committee submitted to the Secretary to the Treasury,  Mr Stone,  a series of questions. However,  Mr Stone,  in a letter to the Committee of 3 July, commented that the Treasurer's promises needed to be viewed in the context of the guidelines tabled in Parliament on 28 September, 'which preclude us from commenting on Government policy'. On this basis  Mr Stone  indicated that he refused to answer five of the eight questions submitted. I believe that  Mr Stone  of the Treasury may be in contempt of Parliament in that, apparently of his own volition, he failed to provide certain information requested by a committee of this Parliament. I refer briefly to a relevant paper prepared for the Parliament by a former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  and a former SolicitorGeneral,  Mr Ellicott.  On two occasions in a parliamentary paper they referred in specific terms to this kind of matter. In paragraph 1 1 1 of that report they stated: 
If a witness summoned to produce documents does not do so, or refuses to do so in accordance with the summons, he may be dealt with according to contempt. 
Paragraph 142 section (iv) stated: 
If the Minister decides to claim privilege, he should furnish the Committee with a certificate to that effect. 
I conclude: It would appear on the face of it that at the very least a committee of this Parliament has been dealt with in a rather cavalier manner by one of the most senior public servants serving the Government. I am not sure what is the standing of the guidelines referred to by  Mr Stone  in his letter to the Committee. I do not know whether it is possible to sustain a distinction between information and policy. However, I would have thought that, in the Westminster tradition, the power of Parliament to require the production of documents and the giving of evidence is, for all practical purposes, unlimited. If this is the case, I believe that  Mr Stone  has a case to answer. 
MrSPEAKER-Is the honourable gentleman a member of the Committee? 
It is extraordinary that, after all the debate that has taken place in this country, and after all the discussions that have occurred in the various communities around this nation about the reality of unemployment and what it is doing to the lives of a whole generation of youth, here we are in the national Parliament dealing with two particular measures- amongst others- which do nothing to relieve the needs of people who are unemployed and which are, in a sense, directed much more towards the punishment of people who are unemployed through no fault of their own. I refer to clauses 36 and 42. Clause 36 has the effect of denying unemployment benefits to someone who, as a result of industrial action perhaps in another State, is involved indirectly in industrial action because he is a member of the same union. Furthermore, clause 42 would even deny special benefits, as part of a punitive action, to people in the most necessitous circumstances, in a situation where they were reduced to absolute poverty, absolute destitution and in circumstances where people literally would not know where their next meal was coming from. 
I refer also to the extension of the period during which those who fall into the so-called voluntary unemployed category can be denied unemployment benefits. At a time in which unemployment has reached the level of tragedy, this Government is still preoccupied with the use of the social security system for what can only be described as social control. The Government is interested to use the social security system to support its repressive industrial legislation. One needs to look at the amendments set out in clause 36 within the context of the whole range of measures that this Government has brought in to restrict the rights and freedoms of people involved in industrial action. In this particular measure that is even extended to people who are indirectly involved. It is one thing to suggest that someone who has struck ought not to be paid unemployment benefits; it is another matter to suggest that someone indirectly involved, who is not part of the decision to strike but who is in the same union in perhaps another State, ought to be refused his benefits. 
It is quite incredible that this is the kind of legislation that the Government is introducing into this House at a time when I do not think there is a family in Australia that is not unaware of the suffering being caused to people- perhaps in their family, perhaps in their community- as a result of extended periods of unemployment. One does not need to emphasise or to restate within this House the shifts that have occurred in the scales of unemployment since this Government has been in power; the length of time that people are unemployed; and the fact that particular sections of the community are bearing the weight of unemployment. Not every section of society is being affected equally. We know that essentially it is the working people of the nation who are most severely affected. It is the kids who perhaps were not able to stay at school long enough; it is the kids who went to schools that were not best served in terms of facilities or in terms of staff/student ratios; it is the children of the unskilled and semi-skilled who are unemployed. It is the older workers and not the younger workers; it is the recently arrived migrants; and it is the Aboriginal people in the farflung and outlying communities of this nation who are bearing the weight and full dint of this Government's repressive economic policies which have introduced into this nation the most extended recession it has experienced at any time since the 1930s. 
I believe it is within that context that there are people right across this nation who are beginning to take a position in relation to unemployment. It is a divisive issue. It is one on which people have to take a position and have to take sides. I think it is of some interest that in the last few weeks we have seen each of the leading churches in this country taking sides on the issue of unemployment. The Uniting Church in Australia, and the Church of England in Australia have issued a very strong statement about unemployment. The 
Catholic bishops, through their Commission on Justice and Peace, have also produced a stinging indictment of the policies of this Government. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  may describe it as a Marxist document but the Catholic Church- if one looks at its involvement throughout the world- sometimes has had to take quite strong and radical positions in the face of repressive and often fascist governments. I refer to that church's leaderships in many respects of revolutionary change in Latin America; its strong and unyielding opposition to the current dictatorship in the Philippines; and the strength of its opposition to the fascist regime which exists in South Korea. 
Church people across this nation are not going to see the unemployed destroyed, repudiated or maligned by governments such as this one, and by those forces of capitalism which are so closely aligned with the present policies of this Government. People in ordinary communities are beginning to organise to support the unemployed. As they do so they will find that the Government is not going to give them a great deal of help. Only a week or so ago we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  maligning the Unemployed Workers Union for its efforts simply to organise the unemployed in various cities. What else have the unemployed got if they cannot get themselves together in terms of their own union? In this House, the Prime Minister talked about the Unemployed Workers Union being some kind of way out organisation which has no right to express a view or dissent on behalf of its members in the various States of Australia who are bearing the full dint of this Government's economic policies. The report of the Commission on Justice and Peace points to the very guts of the unemployment problem in this country. The report is based not on our nation 's capacity to provide jobs or to provide a decent income for those who are out of work, but on the social structure which we have erected in this country and which enshrines and endorses inequality. The report quite rightly refers to that small minority of people who control far more than their share of the wealth of this country. The sacrifices that are being made in this time of unemployment are not being made on the North Shore, in Toorak, South Yarra or in the lush suburbs of Perth or Brisbane. They are being made in working communities across the nation. Working people are going to organise, to find friends and, despite the repressive legislation which we have seen go through this Parliament, they are not going to be frightened off. People in working communities are going to fight the fight because they know that, essentially, deep down in the Australian people, there is a sense of justice and fair play. 
There is in the Australian people a willingness to support those who they recognise are treated unjustly. I believe that the community's attitudes are changing. I believe that people are getting sick of the constant reiteration of remarks expressing the dole bludger mentality and of the blaming the victim syndrome of which the public relations Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is so much an exponent. I believe that they are tired of seeing so much suffering in their communities. If one goes to any one of the unemployment groups in my electorate one finds - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I want to refer to clause 41 which is the clause which has the effect of withholding the unemployment benefit from certain people for a period of not less than six weeks and for a maximum of 12 weeks. This is to be done in cases where people are in the situation of voluntary unemployment, that is, where people leave a position in a socalled voluntary manner. Neither the original legislation nor this clause makes any real effort to define the circumstances in which one could be liable for the loss of unemployment benefit for that particular period. Of course the result of that is that there is once again- this could equally be applied to clause 35- a great deal of discretion for the Department of Social Security and for the officer concerned of the Department of Social Security. As has been previously pointed out in this debate, the officer who may make a decision about someone who is voluntary unemployed or who has failed to take acceptable work could be a relatively inexperienced or junior officer. Furthermore, the circumstances in which someone left work may well be, as has been suggested earlier, circumstances which people are not anxious to communicate, certainly not to an officer of the Department of Social Security and quite possibly not to an officer at that particular level. This discretion, then, which is present in this clause of the legislation is of course dangerous. 
But I think that we ought to recognise that underlying the clause is a quite mistaken commitment on the part of this Government to the work test, that is, the Government still believes, despite the fact that we have this massive unemployment- one has to keep repeating that it is massive unemployment- and particularly unemployment concentrated amongst the young, that somehow morality is involved in the decision as to whether someone is employed or unemployed. It is unfortunate that the Government is so caught up and so preoccupied with this question of morality, that is whether someone deserves to be paid income support or deserves to be paid unemployment benefit rather than to be supported by the community. It is quite clear that if the overwhelming majority of the people who are unemployed had a choice, their choice certainly would be to work. One recognises that the work that is available for the people who are unemployed is work that in normal circumstances very few people would want to choose. 
The Parliament, as I have remarked at earlier times, is becoming more and more unrepresentative of the Australian population. There are of course- an exchange that took place earlier illustrated this- very few people who have a sense of what it is like to work in the marginal work situations which currently provide opportunities to work for people who are without skills or specific training. Of course, in those circumstances people very often find it extremely difficult to adjust to working on a regular basis, and so they ought. It seems to me that if we could relax to some extent this commitment, particularly on the Government side, to the work test and to the concept of people deserving unemployment benefit rather than receiving unemployment benefit as a right, then we might see the situation as it exists much more clearly. I just want to read a brief quotation from David Griffiths who wrote a study called 'Whither Work?'. He says: 
The degree of severity of the work test is irrelevant when there is a shortage of jobs. Many people could be forced to accept socially unacceptable work, but the government won't be able to force the majority of the unemployed to accept jobs that do not exist. 
I think that the point that Griffiths is making, which is not all that original, simply picks up the argument which is central to the Myers Inquiry into Unemployment Benefit Policy and Administration and which, after all, was an inquiry commissioned by this Government. It suggested that in a situation of extremely high unemployment the work test is irrelevant. 
I refer to some of the points made by the Myers inquiry in relation to the work test. It pointed out that the test cannot be effectively applied where the number of job seekers greatly exceeds the number of jobs, that the function of the Commonwealth Employment Service to fit jobs to workers and workers to jobs is inconsistent with the requirement to refer all applicants to appropriate employers as a test of willingness to work, that the administrative load carried by the 
Commonwealth Employment Sevice in doing so interferes with its more constructive purpose, and that the application of the test as a deterrent to those unwilling to work is objectionable to genuine job seekers. Myers went on to make the point that the consequence of encouraging the reluctant worker into the work force, unless an additional job is created, is that another worker is displaced from the work force and becomes eligible for benefit. Thus there is no saving in cost to the community, and presumably a willing worker is replaced by a reluctant one. 
We need to give a lot more thought to what is meant by work and how we define it. We have grown up with the notion that somehow work is related to participation in a particular kind of economic system, that it is related to working in organisations that are primarily devoted to a profit rather than being related essentially to making some sort of contribution to community welfare. It is my feeling, having met perhaps hundreds of unemployed young people over the last few years, that essentially their problem- I think this is increasingly the case- is that they are becoming increasingly alienated from the community in any real sense. They do not feel that they are part of the community. They do not feel that the community recognises them or wants to receive any kind of contribution from them. 
In a sense, I think the attitudes which are present in this legislation, attitudes which are reflected in clauses 35, 41 and 42, are designed essentially to increase alienation within the Australian community, to increase division and bitterness, to make people feel that, if they do not match up to a test which most of the people in this Parliament have rarely matched up to, somehow they are less than equal and somehow they do not have the same rights as the rest of the community. We are continuing as a Parliament to cultivate mythologies about contribution to the community. We are continuing to cultivate a mythology about what work may have been like when we were young or when our fathers were young or in some earlier situation. We are not taking seriously enough the fact that work is increasingly unrelated to the wealth of the community as it is currently being created, and some things were said about that earlier today during the discussion of the matter of public importance. 
The clauses to which I have been referring are clauses that this Committee ought to reject. Implicit within them are concepts of social control, of coercion, of conflict within the community, where we repress people in a certain section of the community and deny them basic rights, where we subject them to harassment, where we pursue them rather than seeking to understand how they can make a contribution to the community. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put- 
That the  remainder  of the  Bill  be  agreed  to. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the actions of the South Korean Government in using its central intelligence agency once again to harass its main opposition, the New Democratic Party, this time to overthrow the party's leadership and prompt the withdrawal of the opposition from the Parliament? Does he have information on that Government's continuing vendetta against Christians and organisations such as the Catholic Farmers Association and their defenders, such as the Bishop of Andong, who has been expelled after 25 years in that country? 
What is the Australian Government's attitude to this type of repressive action under the guise of democracy? 
Will the Minister make sure that Australia 's views are put clearly before the South Korean Government? 
-You are a fascist. 
It is extraordinary that someone who has come out of such a fine environment, from such a fine school in the western suburbs, should have degenerated so much and that someone else who has come out of the same environment should have flourished and will soon be Labor Treasurer of this country. I turn to the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill and to a discussion of the question of capital works expenditure as provided for in this legislation. It is quite clear, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  pointed out, that the figures do show a very substantial cutback in funding from the Commonwealth to the States for capital works since this Government has been in power. Indeed, the cutback can only be described as massive. It is not a matter of talking about several per cent; in real terms, general purpose capital funds for State governments have declined in the order of 3 1.6 per cent. That is quite a massive cutback. 
The other aspect of funding provided under the Bill- total funds to the States for recurrent capital purposes- is that a substantial cut has been achieved by this Government. I guess that one has to look at that cut within a particular context. I think that what the honourable member for Gellibrand was arguing was that in a context where there has been a substantial, continuing, persistent rise in unemployment- and whatever the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  may say, no economist in this country is willing to go on record and say that this Government has developed a set of policies which gives anyone any confidence at all that unemployment will be substantially reduced in the foreseeable future- whatever one might have said about Labor policies between 1972 and 1975, in the present context there is a very strong argument to be made for an acceleration of funding to the States for capital works rather than a reduction because of its importance in terms of generating employment. The Labor Opposition has not argued for massive increases in spending; it has argued that at least real levels of spending on capital works ought to be preserved and that there ought to be limited expansion of that spending because of its impact on employment. 
It is also clear- and I think the honourable member for Gellibrand argued this quite convincingly- that from the statements of each of the State Treasurers, not simply statements made as they came out of the conferences but considered statements, each of those Treasurers is, to say the least, concerned about the implications of the reductions in funding for capital works for their State Budgets and particularly for the effects of those cutbacks on the employment situation in the various States. This was not a matter of the Liberal Premiers saying one thing and the Labor Premiers saying something else. Premiers around Australia, whatever their political colour, were saying very much the same thing. Of course, implied in those statements this year was a quite serious threat to the Government. As we already know the Government has been severely wounded by the number of promises that it has been forced to break. There are very few commitments that this Government made when it was in Opposition in 1975 that have in fact been sustained. One of the promises that the Liberal Opposition made a great deal of play about was that it would introduce a new phase of Federal-State relations. There was a new doctrine described as the new federalism. Under this new federalism there was to be a twostage arrangement, the first stage of which would guarantee funding to the States at a level no less than that provided under the so-called Whitlam formula established in 1973. The States would then move to a second stage where they would be in a position to introduce their own income tax. That was what the new federalism was about. It was about transferring some of the burden, perhaps of capital spending, from the Commonwealth to the States so that there would be a shared burden. 
The reality is that the Commonwealth has passed the necessary legislation to enable the move to stage 2. But there is no State in Australia that is prepared to buy new federalism as a policy as they have seen it in practice. They have had four years to see what new federalism is about. After four years we find that the Statesnot one or two of them but all of them, irrespective of their political colour- have not introduced, or committed themselves to introducing, the necessary complementary legislation to move to stage 2. In fact, there will not be a stage 2 of the new federalism because new federalism is finished. It was a rhetoric suitable for an election campaign in 1975. In terms of Commonwealth relationships with the States it has not worked out. 
The States are becoming increasingly bitter about a situation in which they have to bear a great deal of the flak for unemployment as well as a great deal of the costs. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth is getting away scot free. It is able to shift the political costs to the States while reserving the political benefits for itself. If we want to do some kind of analysis of this legislation in political terms, that is the kind of analysis that I think is important. It is important to recognise that the last Act in the series of Acts under the Fraser Government's new federalism policy will not deliver the goods. The States are extremely unhappy because they know that the Commonwealth essentially is trying to shift the burden which it has borne in the past from itself to the States. 
I now turn to particular aspects of the legislation. It provides in the first instance for general purpose capital funding for the States. These funds are provided in the form of borrowings on behalf of the States as well as capital grants. In this Budget there have been substantial cuts both in the borrowings and in the capital grants area. The bulk of the loan funds in the general capital area are essentially related to infrastructurethings such as increased power and transport capacity. There are also special provisions for long term financing for infrastructure about which the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  spoke. He referred to the eight-year program which relates to such facilities as coal loaders at Balmain and Port Kembla, the Loy Yang power project in Victoria, the world trade centre, which one would not have thought was much of a priority, a coal loader at Hay Point in Queensland, the petrochemical project at Redcliff in South Australia, $568m for Western Australia for a natural gas pipeline between Dampier and Perth, the integration of power supplies in the Pilbara region, the Worsley alumina project and $100m for Tasmania for hydro-electric power development. 
It seems to me to be of some importance, when one is referring to where the capital money for the States is going, to stand back a little and ask whether those particular projects which have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States are of the highest priority in the present circumstances. When I look at government funding at the present time it seems to me that in a sense governments are increasingly taking over the capital responsibilities to provide infrastructure for services for private industry. There are some real questions about some of the projects that are being devised and the purposes of those projects that I think we, as a parliament, ought to be concerned about. In debates such as this it is not simply a matter of saying: 'Well, we would spend more than you' or 'You would spend more than us'. Implied in the items for which capital moneys are being provided is a set of priorities. 
I think that one ought to raise questions about the priorities as they have been established, and certainly as they have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States. There are several points that one might want to make. For example, the Commonwealth provides assistance for Victoria to build a world trade centre at a cost of $56m. What kind of priority is a world trade centre at a time of extremely high unemployment? How much employment will be created by that kind of centre? I believe that that is one project that would not stand up to a great deal of" scrutiny considering the scale of money involved. One might refer to the very great emphasis placed on infrastructure developments that are related to the utilisation and development of energy. I believe that in this country we will have to look very seriously at the way in which we are developing, using and increasingly exporting our energy resources. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is inclined to develop a mad gleam in his eye every time he gets out of Australia. He talks to overseas governments about the massive energy reserves in this country which, frankly, he cannot shift out of the country quickly enough. That kind of attitude, which is becoming increasingly prevalent and dominant within this Government, may provide some short term benefits for the Australian economy and the Australian people. But it does not say very much at all about long term planning. 
We are providing for a massive $2 billion Loan Council program to support infrastructure developments for the exploitation of energy resources in this country yet we have nothing that remotely resembles a national energy policy. We have on the one hand the argument, which was presented in an earlier debate this afternoon, that we have to impose massive petrol taxes in this country to convince people that they need to save energy. On the other hand, the same Government is shipping, hoping to ship or planning to ship energy out of the country as rapidly as it possibly can. It seems to me that those two things do not hang together. If we are asking the ordinary people of this country to pay increasingly high prices every time they go for a drive in the family automobile then we ought to know that that is being done within the context of a rational overall energy policy. We ought to have some view of where we are heading. One could refer to the increasing and very rapid development of bauxite, alumina and aluminium refineries and smelters around Australia. That is becoming another one of the obsessions of those within the Government who are obsessed with a notion of growth at all costs. Anyone who has studied the subject knows that that particular industry is a massive energy user. It is much more expensive in terms of its use of energy than would be, for example, an integrated steel plant or the iron and steel industry. The use of energy is absolutely massive. 
Other countries, such as Japan, in the face of a world energy crisis are closing down their refineries and smelters at a very great rate. The United States is doing very much the same. But what do we find in Australia? We find projects all over the country to expand Australia's involvement in the industry because large multinational corporations such as Alcoa of Australia Ltd and Alcan Australia Limited see the opportunity to exploit divisions between States, get their hands on cheap Australian energy and export it in the form of alumina or aluminium. It seems to me that when we talk about the overall relationship between Commonwealth and State capital spending we ought to be asking questions about the nature of our society, the nature of economic growth and what kind of growth we want to encourage. 
The Humphrey-Hawkins Bill which passed through the United States Congress proposed that the Budget there be subject to some scrutiny and attention in terms of the employment implications of the proposed spending. That would apply particularly to the capital area. At a time when we are increasingly being drawn into massive capital projects, particularly in the mineral and mineral processing areas, we ought to be asking ourselves much more seriously what will be the employment implications of those projects. In terms of my argument it is not simply a matter of providing the States with more and more money so that they can compete with one another more and more energetically to get into these kinds of projects, unless it can be demonstrated that these projects will make a substantial contribution to resolving the No. 1 problem which we face in this country- massive unemployment. 
It has been made obvious during the past week that the key department of the Government that is concerned with economic planning and the assessment of major projects infrastructure could not give a fig for the social, environmental and broader implications of economic policy. I refer to the Treasury. Indeed, it is obsessed with the desire to ensure that none of these issues is brought into the open and fully debated. It is concerned in an obsessive way with secrecy and with the prevention of proper scrutiny by the public of major capital projects. It wants to see the projects in this area determined and approved behind closed doors. It does not want to consider the possibilities of alternative economic and social analysis. We are reaching a very dangerous situation in this country in the making in the capital works area of decisions which have very long term implications indeed. In Victoria, $2,000m is being allocated for the Loy Yang power station. That is a massive sum. A great deal of the available capital in this country is to go into a single major power project within one State, and that is to take place within the context of a country which has developed no capacity for overall management and planning of its resources. 
One has to be concerned with the way in which the Government has cut back increasingly on funding for the States. But, corresponding to what I have been saying about capital works, if one looks at the particular areas of spending, such as health, education and welfare, one will see that the cutbacks are much more obvious and one will see the implications of the Government's strategy much more clearly displayed. 
This Government's strategy is to transfer resources towards large scale capital and industry and away from people and communities. That is why all the programs in the urban and regional development areas were eliminated. That is why public housing in this country is a disgrace. Australia's record with respect to public housing is the worst of any country in the developed world. We are concerned more and more about moving resources towards profits for overseas companies and less and less about the direction of our society in terms of overall social priorities. That is regrettable. We are in a critical stage and ought to be giving more consideration to long term priorities. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
I want to say a few words in support of some of the comments made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  He has consistently defended the rights of the Parliament with respect to the Executive. I think that is extremely important. I believe that if the Parliament is to carefully scrutinise the work of the Executive and make critical judgments about assertions that are made by the Executive, then it needs a mechanism such as the Estimates committees. 
I want to cite briefly one example which relates to the unemployment benefit. In the past three years the Government has underestimated the amount to be spent on unemployment benefits by $44 1m. In 1976-77 expenditure on the unemployment benefit was underestimated by $161m, in 1977-78 by $ 154m and in 1978-79 by $ 126m. On the other side of the picture, there was an explicit statement in the 1978-79 Budget Paper No. 3, that it would be possible by implementing the recomendations of a review being carried out by the Department of Social Security to make a saving of $ 100m. That saving of $ 100m was to be made by pursuing the somewhat punitive policies of this Government with respect to sorting out, as it were, the genuinely unemployed from those who might be described as the chisellers and the bludgers. The Government's having made that explicit statement, one could expect to find in this year's Budget reports some indication of the extent to which that figure had been achieved. It is interesting to note that the Department was able to state very clearly the number of additional staff who were appointed as a result of that recommendation. I think it was of the order of 445. But when it comes to the question of just what that staff was able to achieve, we move away from fact and reach the situation of a considered reply which the Department provided in writing to me, as someone who requested that information. It stated: 
It is not possible to quantify in monetary terms the effects that procedural changes stemming from the review of systems and procedures had on the Department's expenditures but available information - 
It was not provided to the Committee- 
Indicates that savings of the order of $ 100m were achieved. 
Even after a question was raised at the Estimates Committee hearing that statement was not substantiated in any way by the written answer that is provided. I believe that originally the statement that those savings could be achieved had no particular empirical reference and was just inserted in the speech. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Has a decision been made in relation to the proposed transfer from Melbourne to Canberra of the Working Environment Division of his Depanment. 
Has his Depanment assessed the costs, financial, social and in staff, associated with such a move; if so, what was the result of the assessment. 
Has he considered a staff proposal that a joint working party be established to examine all these issues and report in 1 980; if so, what was his response to the request. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Further to my question No. 4580 concerning the proposed transfer of staff of the Working Environment Division of his Depanment from Melbourne to Canberra, have Laurie Doyle and Graeme Coyle of his Department carried out a survey of the views of the staff involved in the proposed transfer, as well as a study of the circumstances of the section, and its functions. 
If so, were the results of this investigation contained in a report which recommends that the section be retained in Melbourne. 
Will he make a copy of the report available to me. 
In the light of evidence contained in the report, will he reconsider his decision to move the section to Canberra. 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition in relation to this legislation, the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill, which refers particularly to the levels of subsidy of 75 cents a day for accommodation and 25 cents a meal for those institutions that provide accommodation or meals for homeless people. I think all of the previous speakers have referred to the inadequacy of this subsidy. There ought to be considerable support on the Government side when that amendment is voted upon. If the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  does not accept the amendment we would expect to see a number of people crossing the floor. The legislation was one of the initiatives of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden ) when he was Minister for Social Security. He set up the working party which did the initial investigation, resulting in the draft legislation and its enactment for a three-year period. Originally, as suggested earlier, it was intended that the total expenditure on the program would be of a rather larger order. 
One of the disturbing features in terms of the trend in financing has been the difference between the allocation and the amount spent in each of the years. I recognise that to some extent that is related to the fact that the capital side of the program has not proceeded as quickly as anyone would have hoped. Nevertheless, no new projects have been approved, as I understand it, since 1977. All of the applications that have been considered were submitted prior to that time. So there have been considerable delays and there has been very little initiative on the part of the Government to seek additional projects apart from those that were approved, two of which will come into the building stage, as I understand it, this financial year. 
The plight of homeless people is a very important subject. It is important that some time be set aside by the House for debate on this subject, although unfortunately this debate has been foreshortened to some extent. I wish to reply to some of the matters that, for example, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  suggested, which seem to me to echo something of what has been the conventional wisdom in terms of homeless people. I refer firstly to the suggestion that these people are somehow the product of family conditions, personal attitudes and perhaps their immediate social environment, rather than their being in any sense the victims of larger social forces. That tendency has been present. I guess that is the reason why most of the services that have been provided to homeless people in Australia in the past have been provided by charitable organisations. No group in the community has been more subject to charity, had its spirits aroused so often by the singing of hymns at breakfast timevery often in return for breakfast- or been so embedded within perhaps the more extreme and even right-wing sections of religion than this particular group, namely, homeless people. I think that is unfortunate. 
It is also unfortunate that in this legislation the major subsidies continue to go to the traditional providers of services to homeless people and that the notion of co-operatives which is embedded in the legislation and the possibility of funds being provided for local government to establish services has not been developed. The tendency throughout the life of this legislation has been for the traditional pattern of providing services for homeless people, particularly for social derelicts, to be provided by the religious and charitable organisations that historically have been in the 
Held.  If there has been a benefit from the program it has been that at least there have been some additional resources, although, as other speakers have suggested, certainly not adequate resources, and that to some extent the services have been upgraded. 
The new accommodation we built in Brisbane at least will be new accommodation. Presumably it will provide for more single room accommodation rather than the dormitory accommodation that traditionally has been provided for homeless people. A proper diet may even be provided. Anyone who knows anything about this area would know that homeless people as a group very rarely have access to an adequate diet. A lot of their health problems flow from that situation. That is another reason why the meal subsidies and the board subsidies ought to be upgraded. It ought to be seen that the people who are receiving subsidies for the provision of these meals are in fact providing a more adequate diet for homeless people. 
To get closer to the nub of the matter, I think that the tendency has been to interpret homelessness very much in terms of what I might describe as a Durkheimian model or a notion of people who suffer primarily from social isolation. The prime characteristic of these people is that they do not form enduring relationships; that they are not part of the larger social structures and value systems which are dominant in our society; that they are, in a sense, people who have been cut off and are adrift from society. Often that is seen very much in the terms of the honourable member for Darling Downs, who saw it very much as their responsibility, that they or their families have been living in such a way that they have cut themselves off and therefore society itself is not responsible. I think that belief flows from two misunderstandings. I shall refer to them very quickly. 
It is historically true that homeless people have lived by necessity within the inner areas of large cities. Living in those areas, they very often have lived in a situation which is extremely unstable. I refer to one aspect of that, namely, the housing situation. We all know that the inner areas of large cities go through constant processes of change. Those processes of change are not simply the result of a number of individual decisions. In part, they flow from the forces of the capitalist system as it operates the private property market. As homeless people are people who are able to pay only the lowest price for rent, invariably they tend to be provided by the community under a free market system with the very poorest of accommodation. This is true irrespective of whether they are living privately or within institutional accommodation. That accommodation had traditionally, historically, been the poorest accommodation that is provided for people within the urban areas. 
I believe that the problem of homelessness has been exacerbated by the kind of major changes which have occurred more recently in the inner areas of Australian cities. In the past few years we have seen major programs of urban renewal and the tendency for office areas within a city to expand into neighbouring suburbs and for properties that have been used for perhaps 30 or 40 years as rooming houses to be taken over for commercial purposes or sometimes turned into large family homes. The net result of that process of gentrification- the process of change in use and change in values that has occurred in property markets, whether at Redfern, Fitzroy or the inner suburbs of other cities- has inevitably resulted in the expulsion of many homeless people from what may have been fairly primitive accommodation but which was, on the whole, relatively low rent accommodation. The dispersal of homeless people has resulted in a situation arising in which the traditional services are located greater distances from them. I believe that the trend in terms of the property market, with its insensitivity not only to homeless people but also to many other groups of people who live in the inner city areas, is one of the trends that people who are analysing homelessness ought to be looking at. 
The other factor which I think is important is related to employment. Traditionally, the homeless person not only lives in marginal housingvery often the poorest housing- but also is a marginal worker. It is not true to say, as many people do about homeless people, that they are people who either do not work or rarely work. Most of the people I have known in the homeless group, in the social derelict group, have been in fact in a working situation, for most of their lives, but it is also a working situation which is quite marginal. By that, I mean the casual workers who move from city to country to follow the seasonal work in rural areas or casual workers in the sense that they do any kind of work that is available, for example, in the railway goods yards where there is loading to be done from time to time or in major transport interchanges for bulk transport where again there has always been a demand for casual labour. 
The homeless person who is part of this group suffers because not only is he marginally housed but also he is marginally employed within industries where traditionally there has been a demand for casual labour but where people are taken on often for very short periods, where the pay is extremely poor and where they can be laid off on more or less a moment's notice. It has suited the community to have a group of people who form, in Marxist terms, a kind of reserve army of labour. They are the people who are available to be exploited at more or less a moment's notice and who form a group that to some extent maintains pressure on those who are employed because of their need to accept the lowest wages. They are the people who can be drafted from a situation of unemployment into employment. At a time of extremely high unemployment, it is quite clear that the homeless population has expanded and that the poverty of that homeless population has also expanded. 
In a sense, one could say that what the Government does in terms of this legislationwhether it provides an extra million or so dollars or whether it raises the allowances by a certain amount- is not the crux of the problem. The crux of the problem is related to the housing policies of this Government and the kind of housing that is provided. Firstly, I might point out, seeing the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  is at the table, that historically public housing authorities have literally refused to provide accommodation for people in this group. We negotiated in Melbourne for the construction of a new building to replace the old Gordon House, which I might say is now highly gentrified and is one of the better restaurants in Melbourne for the accommodation of the soul. All the capital appreciation associated with that property has gone to the new owners. A new building was constructed in South Melbourne, which is certainly a major development for this group. When the directors of Hanover Welfare Services were negotiating in relation to Gordon House, the State Housing Commission refused to be part of that deal. It refused to use its money, which was provided mostly by the Commonwealth Government, to house this particular group. It did not see it as appropriate to house this group and it still does not. 
Despite the flexibility in terms of the new Commonwealth-states housing finance agreement, it is not sufficiently flexible for public housing authorities in this country to house the people who everyone would agree, are amongst the very poor. When we have this talk about the need to introduce market rents, paradoxically in order to get the people who are not so poor out of public housing accommodation, I am reminded of the fact that the people in this group- the homeless men and women of this country- as a matter of policy are not housed, as far as I know, by any of the State housing authorities. I think that is very unfortunate. Not a cent went into the Gordon House building in Melbourne which was conceived well before the introduction of this legislation, that came from the State housing authority. Admittedly, the State Treasury contributed substantially. I think that says something about public housing and its administration in this country. It is not a real solution for the problems of homeless people simply to reinforce the traditional 19th century pattern of charitable houses and accommodation for the undeserving poor. Insofar as this legislation has reinforced that charitable pattern, I think one ought to regret it. 
Secondly it is also important, if one wants to be serious about this group of people, for the Government to develop employment policies that guarantee the right to work, create employment and maintain high standard conditions for unskilled, seasonal and casual workers. I do not have time to develop that theme, but employment policies are extremely important in relation to this group. One ought not to think of these people as being somehow outside the work force. Most of the time they are in the work force and they are amongst the most exploited members of the work force when they are in it. Thirdly, and finally, it is unfortunate that even though the legislation has been amended to make it permanent legislation, there is not associated with it any rethinking of the whole approach that might be developed by the Government to homeless people. I take, for example, the definition of homeless people which I have been discussing. I think there are substantial groups within the population that might be brought within the purview of this legislation. I am not referring simply to homeless youth. There are other groups of people- for example, migratory, seasonal and casual workers- which need adequate housing, very often close to their employment. They might well be provided for in this legislation. 
There has been no emphasis in the administration of the legislation on the rights of homeless people. We know that there is no group which is more offended in terms of its rights within the population. That is reflected in the fact that at any one time homeless people represent a substantial proportion of the population in the nation's prisons. Very often they are there for having committed offences which are quite minimal and for which they have been undefended. For example I refer to acts of vagrancy. They have had their legal rights completely overridden. The rights of homeless people would seem to me to be an area on which much greater emphasis might have been placed by the Government. I refer not only to legal rights but also to rights to receive basic care. I know of a number of cases of people who, for want of urgent treatment in casualty sections of hospitals, have died, simply because others have made a judgment that they represent a class of people which has to be given second rate treatment, and which is not to be treated in the same way as ordinary people in the community. I think that in terms of the funding of voluntary agencies there needs to be a rethinking of that relationship. The Government might think in terms of some kind of deficit funding approach to the gap between the budget presented by an agency and its expected receipts. 
Very little research has been done on housing in Australia generally. Certainly, not very much work has been done in relation to this particular group. Some of the work that has been done, of course, includes the finest research of a sociological character that we have had done in this country. But there has not been much of it and certainly there is not a continuing program. It is good that the legislation has been made permanent. It is unfortunate that there has not been a strong indication from the Government of a decision to upgrade the subsidies that are provided. It is also unfortunate I believe, that the Government has not in terms of policy, sought to use State agencies. Perhaps the legislation could have been amended for that purpose, and also for the purpose of developing more activities on the part of local government in the homeless field. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Klugman's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
What action has the Government taken to overcome the differences between States in the collection of statistics on industrial accidents and occupational health. 
Will these differences be removed in the near future. 
What is the estimated cost of industrial accidents and occupational health problems during 1978-79. 
What is the estimated number of days lost due to industrial accidents and occupational health problems during 1978-79. 
What is the estimated cost and time lost due to disputes during 1978-79. 
I second the motion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Opposition essentially is asking for an investigation and inquiry. It is not asking the Government to spend a great deal of money. It is not asking it to develop grandiose plans. It is simply asking the Government to have a serious look at transport costs and their implications for the economic and social development of this country. It is quite clear that the energy price crisis has re-opened a series of previously unquestioned assumptions about the most efficient forms of transport to undertake different transport tasks. If, as the Government claims, it is on about rationality in energy policy, it must recognise that interdependency as between energy use and transport is such that one simply cannot have a rational energy policy without a rational transport policy. To some extent, that is the importance of today's motion. 
It is quite clear that in Australia transport is the key to our economic prosperity. However, we face problems with respect to transport which are peculiar to this nation. There is no nation which is more highly urbanised than Australia, but then there is no other nation whose major population centres are separated by such vast distances. Furthermore, the structure of Australian cities is unique. No other nation has cities of such uniformly low density. Not only are Australian cities separated by distance, but also they are separated as between States, adding considerable complexity to the achievement of any effective national transport strategy. In Victoria alone we have something like 13 separate authorities with responsibilities in the transport area. There is no overall transport commission and no overall transport planning authority. Nationally, there are at least another 10 authorities responsible for transport. The interlocking and interrelationship between these authorities represents a major problem which to some extent is peculiar to Australia. 
Whilst each of these characteristics represents problems, it is important to put them into a positive perspective. What objectives are we seeking to achieve and what is the relationship between these objectives and transport? I believe that we are seeking three principal objectives: Firstly, economic growth and higher national prosperity, particularly through the provision of an efficient service to industry, commerce and agriculture, secondly, the meeting of social needs through securing a reasonable level of personal mobility; and thirdly, the minimising of the harmful effects in loss of life and damage to the environment that are often the direct physical result of the transport we use. These objectives are not always completely compatible. The development of a transport system to suit economic development often leads to social deprivation of one sort or another. Similarly, the environmental constraints on transport systems, long not understood, are now being seen increasingly to be critically important limiting factors. 
On the other hand, one ought not to see such different considerations as being quite separate. Often people's social needs cannot be met without consideration of economic factors. During a period of high unemployment, it is important that systems be maintained to enable people to move within cities or even between cities for jobs. For example, the lack of priority for a high speed rail link between Melbourne and Geelong tends to exacerbate the serious unemployment that exists in Geelong. The lack of cross-city public transport in the northern suburbs of Melbourne means that areas of high unemployment very often are isolated from areas of potential employment. This has been a major finding of the study undertaken by the northern municipalities group in Melbourne. 
Furthermore, there are important social reasons why transport ought to be receiving greater priority. In the past, the Australian city has been characterised by extremely high mobility. The suburban city seeks to maximise the advantages of low density family style suburbs and the advantage of accessibility to all the services of the city. This combination is possible only if transport is cheaply and readily available. There is increasing evidence that this is unlikely to be the case in the future unless radical steps are taken. This will require the development of alternative transport systems. It will require also the restructuring of the urban form with much greater attention being given to the decentralisation or regionalisation of urban facilities, including employment, and the full range of community facilities. It will simply not be possible for people to have access to the whole of the city. In part, these problems will have to be resolved by much greater commitment to public transport, which will require support over and above fare revenues. Australia is about to be confronted with a very clear illustration of the contradictions present in what might be described as the unplanned and capitalist city. At a time when it is critical to have effective transport systems, each of the major systems, it might be argued, faces some sort of crisis. 
I turn briefly to the rail industry. There is no doubt that the rail industry in this country, taken as a whole, is in a state of very serious crisis. This crisis cannot be separated from the more general economic crisis which we, as a nation, face. The railways are part of what might be described as a more general public sector crisis. High levels of unemployment, reduced taxation revenue, reduced production of surplus value and reduced profitability have all served to create a massive deficit in the Federal Budgets. The overseas purchase of new capital goods required for technological and stuctural change, coupled with increasing export competition, reduced foreign capital inflow and sustained foreign profit repatriation have all served to generate financial problems and a capital drain out of this country. Of course there has been a real and a definite reduction in the rate of rail revenue inflow relative to the services provided. In fact, it might be argued that this real revenue decline, and not so much a service cost increase, is the source of the apparent deficit. Consequently, the so-called deficit is actually a measure of government subsidy being paid out to principal users, for example, coal, wheat and freight forwarders. After the 1978 international monetary crisis, world finance problems and instability gave rise to a major explosion in international shipping rates. 
Against this background and in the context of developing international inflation and economic stagnation, Western capitalist governments sought to provide a compensatory adjustment to land freight rates, and thereby, it was hoped, to contain domestic inflation. For example, between 1970 and 1976, international shipping rates rose by 140 per cent. I repeat: They rose by 140 per cent over a six-year period. Meanwhile, the Australian consumer price index rose by 80 per cent. In terms of internal domestic freight costs, New South Wales freight rates, for example, rose by only 30 per cent. Stagnation and inflation have not been simply a temporary matter. In fact, the situation has been compounded and thus the opportunity for correction of the freight rate depression has never materialised; that is, rather than the internal costs of freight being relatively high they have in fact been maintained artificially low. That situation is likely to continue given the general situation of economic depression. 
In the course of 1979 we have seen the rapid escalation of fuel costs which, as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has suggested, has intensified the economic problems of road transport. While owner-drivers successfully eliminated their road tax payments that has, of course, turned out to be only a very temporary expedient. The extent of the crisis that faces their industry is reflected in their willingness to take direct action, as will be seen by the trucks parked at the front of Parliament House. The key to  future  profitability and even viability for the road industry will be for it to have access and control over rail facilities, and in this area it is the larger companies which dominate the industry, such as Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd and Mayne Nickless Ltd, which will be in the box seat. They, along with other large transport firms, are seeking both to invest in their own rail connections and facilities and to force government rail investment policies in directions most to their own advantage. 
Whilst the overall priority of the national Government's policies with respect to the rail system has moved in some respects in contradictory directions the Government's policy has been to contract systems overall. I emphasise that point because it is being recognised increasingly that the contraction of rail systems over extremely long periods- the contraction has accelerated in recent years- in terms of the mounting energy crisis whereby the shift will be more and more from the use of liquid fuels to the use of coal, will increasingly become critical in the future. In that context, governments around Australia have been moving to contract systems. While upgrading to some extent mainline networks, particularly those that service coal and interstate container movements, and modernising and technologically upgrading areas bearing on the national mainline system, they have also moved to invest in labour saving equipment. However, against that pattern one sees the increasing closure of stations and goods sidings in country areas and the destruction of country railway systems which are extremely important in terms of the regional economies of provincial areas. 
I refer briefly to the situation with respect to shipping. We, as a nation, pay through the nose for the supply of services through foreigncontrolled shipping. Australia is about the fifth or sixth largest trading nation in the world. But it is unique because of its minuscule involvement in overseas shipping. This alone costs Australia about $2,000m each year but, of course, we know that this Government will do nothing to develop the Australian National Line and will do very little to increase the number of ships carrying Australian exports and imports which would be owned by Australia or by a nationalised shipping line. 
By far the biggest single freight hauled by the Australian rail systems is coal. In the early 1 970s the Federal Labor Government introduced the coal export levy. It felt that Australian coal was being exported and sold too cheaply. Utah, which is 90 per cent American-owned, has just announced a half-yearly profit of more than $70m, with strong expectations of topping profits of $100m. So, we have a situation whereby freight charges which cover industries which are highly profitable remain relatively depressed on an international scene to support companies which expatriate their profits on the scale of the Utah mining company. 
The passenger transport policies of governments such as the New South Wales and Victorian governments when they were under Liberal administrations- the situation in New South Wales has been partially reversed because of progressive policies adopted by the Wran Government- have resulted in massive declines in rail passenger numbers. Between 1947 and 1 97 1 there was a 10 per cent Australian-wide rail passenger decline while between 1971 and 1976 there was a 30 per cent decline in rail passenger use in Victoria and New South Wales. The justification for this decline was the need to reduce or eliminate the rail deficit by getting rid of uneconomic services. For example, in New South Wales, in the period to which I was referring, there was a 19.5 per cent reduction in urban passenger numbers, but an increase of 2 1 per cent in urban train kilometres travelled. Less passengers in more trains, travelling further, cannot mean increased efficiency. 
Order! As it is now two hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion ( by  Mr Nixon  ) agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of notice No. 1, General Business, be extended until 12.43 p.m. 
I briefly conclude my remarks by saving that I believe that the Opposition, in calling for a select committee, is calling for an absolute minimum from this Government. Its transport policies do not reflect the emphasis and the lip service which it gives to conservation of energy and the critical importance of energy for the future of Australian industry and economic development. A select committee's findings could set the basis for the establishment, for example, of a co-ordinating authority such an inter-state commission to properly co-ordinate interstate transport policies and develop a national approach to transport. It is interesting that even one of the major companies, to which I referred earlier as being to some extent the beneficiary of the lack of Government policy, has suggested that at a decision making level there is an apparent lack of understanding of the total transport situation, with the result that there is no national plan and no policy or program to bring about necessary change. 
The need for the development of a national transport policy, of course, has been recognised in other countries, notably Britain, which has commissioned Green Papers and White Papers and developed a national transport plan. The Government's present approach to oil pricing has, since its inception, accomplished two significant feats. It has allowed oil companies to accrue massive profits and it has filled the Government's coffers, avoiding progressively worse deficits. On this latter point, the United States Government is developing a policy which will earmark $13 billion for public transport out of the $142 billion it expects to raise over the next 10 years with its proposed windfall profits tax. The Australian Government should do something comparable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
1 ) What is the current status of the North West one stop Welfare Centre (the NOW Centre). 
What has been the outcome of the most recent review of this centre. 
Will provision be made for further one stop welfare centres. 
Will the Minister establish a one stop welfare centre in the City of Northcote, Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
What specific commitments did Australia make at the UNCTAD Conference held in Manila in May 1979? 
What will be the financial commitment of Australia to the (a) $400m first window and (b) $3 50m second window funds in 1979-80 and in subsequent years? 
What contributions have been promised to the funds by other countries than Australia? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government failed to adopt an even-handed approach to the question of recognition of the Government of Kampuchea; if so, why. 
Why has the Government not adopted the position taken, for example, by the United States Government, which recognises neither the Pol Pot nor the Heng Samrin regime. 
Does the Government's policy imply that it has not ruled out the possibility of a return to power in Kampuchea of the Pol Pot regime. 
Is this possibility regarded by the Government as being in any way desirable. 
If this possibility is not desirable, can he state what proposals the Government have to avoid this possibility. 
On what principles did the Government justify its prompt recognition of the Lule Administration in Uganda. 
Is the Government using one set of principles for its policies with respect to Uganda and another in relation to Kampuchea. 
Similarly, why has the Government accepted the annexation of East Timor by Indonesia but failed to recognise the Heng Samrin regime in Kampuchea. 
Is it a fact that the principal reason for the Government's failure to adopt a more even-handed approach with respect to Kampuchea flows from ideological factors rather than from other objective assessment of the situation there, based on Australian interests. 
