Can the Treasurer indicate at this stage what was the final figure for the first savings loan? Can he indicate what was the average subscription to that loan, and how is the second series loan going? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Resources and refers to a report in this morning's  Financial Review  under the heading 'Government's dilemma on uranium policy'. I ask the Minister: Does he intend to carry out an independent survey of world uranium demand? Will existing contracts be allowed to proceed before new developments take place? As delay in this area is causing speculation and adds to development costs, when can the House expect a statement on Government policy in this area? 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of a report attributed to him that the proposed development of the Brisbane Airport has been shelved? If this is not correct, could the Minister outline any program that might be in hand? 
-Can the Prime Minister say, with respect to the Premiers' Conference which is to be held later this week and which I understand is to discuss financial arrangements with the States, what protection will be available for the smaller States to ensure that under the new arrangement, their revenue position is guaranteed? 
I thank the House for the opportunity of speaking in this debate on the Government's foreign investment policy. The statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  was by far the most significant on Australia's financial future for more than 3 years. Since the Australian Labor Party won office in 1972 mining companies, financial institutions and overseas investors have lacked a clear understanding of what the Australian Government wanted. As the Treasurer said in his statement recently, this lack of direction led to misunderstandings, confusion and a marked drop in foreign investment in Australia. Now at last the potential investors in Australia's future around the world know where they stand and where Australia is going. The Treasurer's statement is timely for these reasons. This fall off in investment in our country produced a standstill in the whole thrust of economic development in Australia. Little new major development work has taken place since we were last in office, and this is what has wrecked our economy. 
I come to Canberra from Queensland, a State that has an immense future, rich in resources but poor in investment funds. The State is eager to get on with the job. My electors are looking to the Government to lift Australia out of its inherited economic stagnation, to get our development program going and to ensure the living standards of all Australians. They are looking to the Liberal Party because of its record over the previous 23 years in the field of economic management. Labor had some noble ideas and wonderful dreams, even if they turned out to be daydreams and Arabian nightmares. With this in mind the Government must be wary and avoid the same pitfalls. The decline in economic activity is not just one of lack of confidence in the Government. 
The principal spur to risk taking, entrepreneurship and investment is profit. No person will have the incentive to go out and place his money in any project unless he is assured of stable political and industrial conditions and a profitable economic climate. Entrepreneurial spirit and new capital investment thrive on profits, whether they be foreign or domestic. It is the noble aspiration of all people to own their own house, farm or company. Indeed everyone should be encouraged to have a stake in his own future. However, today in Australia there is simply insufficient capital to meet the demands for development. It is because of this that I welcome the Treasurer's statement that the Government wishes to encourage foreign investment. For too long it has been a bogy, with the resultant decline in economic activity. 
It is my experience that once government guidelines have been clearly set out business will adjust to meet them. Commercial planning can then be carried out with some surety of the future. The rate of development is in no small measure beset by the management of the guidelines. It is in this context that the role of the Foreign Investment Review Board is crucial. One of the features of the Labor Administration was that the people who made the decisions in these delicate areas were largely public servants with little knowledge of the market place. It is there that deals are made, promoted and financed. The members of the Board will be well aware of this and I am sure that they will approach their task with a sense of commercial reality. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  asked what contribution  Mr Callaghan  and  Sir William  Pettingell would make. I assume that they would have a very real concept of commercial reality. 
In many cases it will be necessary to be flexible with the 50 per cent rule. There will be a need for quick decisions once a broad framework has been established for decision making. I believe that it would be helpful to the Board and to the course of future development if some further consideration were given to the role of foreign portfolio investment. At present it is planned to take this into consideration when considering foreign ownership. The present definition would affect many well known Australian companies, such as Thiess Holdings Ltd. I have always looked at portfolio investment, from overseas, as a very useful extension of the local secondary capital market. Without it in many instances over the last 20 years Australian companies would not have been able to raise sufficient equity capital. Many portfolio investors are not interested in being able to vote their shares but merely to participate in future dividend and capital prospects. Despite moves by the associated stock exchanges to eliminate non-voting shares I believe that a case now exists for their restoration. It is both administratively feasible and it would be a great help to a large number of well known Australian companies to participate in the future development. 
This brings me to the Australian capital market. As the Treasurer rightly pointed out, it is of limited size. Savings have many competing investment opportunities, not the least of which are government savings bonds. With rising interest rates and inflation, major savings managers have been put under increasing pressure to improve their returns. In many cases funds have been split between 2 managers to give a sense of performance competition. 
New funds developed by life assurance companies total $ 1,400m in one year. Of this, $440m is subscribed to government securities. Of the remainder, 10 per cent or $100m to $150m would be available for development projects, whether equity or debt. When it is considered that this is one of the major areas of savings in Australia it is not hard to see the need for overseas funds. One major project would use all existing funds in any one year. 
On past performance many fund managers will be reluctant to commit large sums of money over a period of time to a number of development projects. This record has been mixed. Robe River, North Australian Development Corporation, and Greenvale are just some of the development projects that are yet to show any return. There have been a number of investments in the rural sector which have been a total loss. Nationalism and money seldom make congenial bedmates The record of the individual investors is even worse. Few of them have any long term view especially when looking at development works. There have been many examples of significant subscription shortfalls in proven development projects, the most recent being the Woodside-Burmah issue where the shortfall on the Burmah offering to existing Australian shareholders is likely to be 40 per cent. Utah Development Company- a company which is well known to the former Minister for Minerals and Energy- which was offering to the Australian public at $1.85, was not well received and fell to $1.60 a short time afterwards. Today it is selling at the equivalent of $13.60. In reverse some of the overseas investors, the bogies, have been a disaster. One notable case has been the sale by the liquidator of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd of that company's holding in Queensland Mines Ltd to Noranda, Australia Ltd, a Canadian based company, for $ 1 9 a share. Today the price is $2.30. 
Money for exploration is very difficult to raise without tax incentives or a favourable stock market in which to sell. Indeed the only exploration work carried out in the last 2 years has been by major companies or foreign companies on a reducing scale. 
There is a disturbing trend in Australia towards many people being keen to see others risk money in enterprise or exploration while they themselves are unprepared to make a contribution. They are very keen indeed to take over once the risk has paid off. They cannot have it both ways. Too many Australians want to back the horse after the winning post. Very few want to be on the horse when it goes to the barrier and even fewer want to buy a yearling. 
I am grateful to the Treasurer for pointing to the possible role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. This body has had an indifferent performance from a privileged beginning. However, I believe that it can play a useful role in future development projects. It has a unique position as an international borrower. Because of this, large sums should be available to lend to projects. This would be particularly helpful to the smaller developments. In some cases it will be necessary to take up equity capital. This should be watched with care. It seems to be in the best interests to place a limit on the length of time any equity can be held- say, three to five years after completion of the project- profits being added to the fund and losses crystalised. This would not only stop any creeping government ownership but it would give Australian participation every opportunity. It would similarly restrain blatant political use of this corporation. 
Any discussion on foreign investment also brings into focus the question of ownership and control. I believe that insufficient people recognise the importance of control. No matter who owns a particular company, that company must operate within the taxation system of the nation. Control is also exercised through export licences and Reserve Bank exchange controls. These 3 weapons of government economic management are far more significant than percentage ownership in a particular company. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  referring to the uranium deposits in Australia, said that only Australian ownership would be able to control that particular industry. I think that he has completely missed the point. This in itself brings us around to the very first question, that all investors must have a clear understanding of what Government policy is and confidence that the Government will carry through its commitments in this area. We now have a chance to prove to Australians and to investors around the world that we are what we say we are- a party of practical men. 
We must not be seen as small 's' socialists trying to stick to Labor's more flambouyant visions. We must not be seen as another government of chauvinistic Australians, beating the nationalistic drum and demanding the lion's share in projects developed by the risk capital of others. We must not be seen as the new Cassandras predicting dire consequences unless we alone monopolise the resources of development. Rather, we must approach the future with a swagger, welcome those who are willing to spend and let companies make money so that people get jobs, security and a higher standard of living. We must illustrate that we are the antithesis of the previous Government, that our ideas are the opposite of theirs and that investors no longer need be frightened of government control of their industry or profit. As any man in the money market knows, taxes, both Federal and State, will pay handsome rewards to the men and women of Australia. 
Perhaps right now we have a greater responsibility to do this than would appear at first, for Australia recently has been seen to swing, as it were, like a pendulum to the left in regard to foreign investment. In these first few months in office, therefore, we must illustrate early and clearly that the pendulum has swung back the other way and that eventually it will settle in a central position which will mean that both Australians and overseas investors will have a solid and happy working relationship, sharing the wealth that comes from resources and expertise. Let us then stop 'multinational' being a dirty word. Multinational companies are often the only ones with the knowledge and experience to do what has to be done in developing this nation. Some people who condemn multinationals in the same breath condemn nationalism and promote internationalism. These are international companies, a natural product of the growing specialisation in this increasingly small world. In this my first speech I make my most important plea: Do not let us, as the new Government the people so clearly wanted, carry any further the cause of socialist policy. Let us instead set our standard toward the biggest profit for the hardest worker and the best reward for the bravest investor. Then everyone in this country will benefit.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I support the Treasurer's statement. 
-Has the Deputy Prime Minister read the Crawford-Okita report on JapaneseAustralian trade? If so, would he care to comment on the report's backing for the CluniesRoss resource rent proposal? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the Government's policy on foreign investment in mining. I ask: What will the Government do in cases where it proves impossible for Australian interests to find 50 per cent of the capital needed for new mining projects? Will failure to meet the Government's requirements of Australian equity mean that some projects will be prevented from going ahead? 
I think the most salient point that has come home to me with regard to the first Opposition speech in the Budget debate is the very poor performance of the socialists. In any Parliament that I have visited I have not heard a socialist party put up such a dismal performance in relation to economic affairs. If we take a line through the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  a totally disinterested performance I do not see any approach to or outline of economic policy being put forward. Let us look at the Budget put forward by the Government. To do this I believe we have to compare the situation in Australia in December 1972 with the situation in December 1975. We see that inflation had risen from 4.5 per cent to 14 per cent; the level of unemployment had risen from 136 000 to 328 000; and the government interest rate had risen from 5.8 per cent to 10 per cent. That is quite a record. This produced the twin problems of inflation and unemployment. It is against this background and the statement on the economy on 20 May that we have to judge the Government's economic project. 
I believe the Government has brought forward some real economic management. The Government has made a real attempt to bring the economy under control, an attempt to bring government spending under control; and an attempt to bring some discipline into the economy, both public and private. In the public area we have had to deal with certain excesses in the Commonwealth Public Service in an attempt to get value for money. A sense of responsibility has been driven home to the States, which have been very guilty in relation to their general housekeeping. Their source of supply has been maintained but any excess projects will have to be funded from their own resources. In the private area wage restraint has been placed high on the list. Management of private enterprise will have to be far more accountable for its actions than it has been. On many occasions very poor management has been glossed over by a reliance on inflation itself. I know of many corporations that have allowed for inflation to carry their stock figures along to allow them to present reasonable figures. This should not be tolerated by the Government. It is something which should be pressed home as one of the great failings within Australia. One of the most popular myths is that 
Australia is a well managed nation. This is not so. Very many companies in Australia do not realise what their real responsibilities are. 
I should like to touch on 4 items in the Budget which I think are of special merit. Many previous speakers have addressed themselves to the family allowances. This is one of the most significant break-throughs in the area of social reform. Another item which I heard the socialists criticise was the removal of the coal export levy. This, in itself, was a very badly placed tax. It did not take into account the unevenness of coal producers throughout the nation in regard to the type of mine, the length of the mine and the costs of extraction from the mine. If we wish to set out to tax super profits we ought to do so in that form and not in terms of gross tonnages produced, because that has no relativity to the area it covers. 
Honourable members opposite also referred to the crude oil levy. This was another marvellous dream. I do not know what the levy was supposed to do, because it wiped out the incentive for exploration, it made the production of oil in this country quite unbalanced and it certainly did nothing to encourage exploration. The announcement that the Government intends to go back to world parity in regard to new finds of oil is very encouraging. I welcome this move. The fourth matter which I felt deserved mention was tax indexation. It was certainly a commendable move. It will stop the tax creep, the socialist stealth. Honorable members might recall the policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition in 1972 when he said that there would be no need to increase taxation rates in Australia to fund the program he was putting forward. Of course there was no need. He proposed to fund his program by an ever-increasing push on inflation which would increase the amount of taxation available to the Government for its spending programs. But even that was not enough. 
I make 2 special pleas- first, in regard to the middle income earners and, secondly, the small businessmen. These are the people who have carried the brunt of the 3-year attack by a socialist government. They are the people whose tax burden has risen the most. They are the people who have been hit hardest by tax deductibility. They are the people who have been most penalised by saving in the past in an endeavour to promote their own enterprise and to cater for their own retirement in their later years. I believe that these are the people who support the Liberal principle of life, and I hope that in future Budgets we will be able to do something to alleviate the problems and the great stress that these people have been under in the last few years. 
I should like to touch briefly on the consequences of the future of savings in Australia. We have a very great ethic- the savings ethic. Inflation has eroded the position of very many people who put their trust in life assurance and superannuation and in other forms of investment for their retirement. Inflation has prevented them from getting any real value from their investment at current day prices. I hope that in the future, perhaps in the next Budget, we could look at this position to ensure that people get some value and some incentive to save. If we destroy the incentive of the nation to save we destroy the very will of self-incentive, to do something on one's own. Instead we will fall back to the old concept of support from the governmentsomething which we do not want and should not foster. We should encourage people to get out and look round for themselves. 
In passing I point out that there is a need for flexibility in the Government's approach to economic management in the next 12 months. High levels of under-utilised capacity and subdued consumer spending point to areas in the economy which will need to be kept under review. I hope that consumer confidence will grow with the Government's efforts to bring inflation under control. Once it is brought under control there is every reason to suspect that consumers will come forward with their very large amounts of savings. However, if unemployment rises to unacceptable levels, this confidence will be broken and a very great tragedy will befront us all. 
I thought I might also deal with one of the unsung heroes oi the last 3 years- the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Bank acts in coordination with the Commonwealth Treasury in the management of monetary policy in Australia. When we consider that we had a government which was not game in lots of cases to act in a fiscal sense but was prepared to push its responsibilities across to the monetary authorities, we have to applaud the actions of the Reserve Bank in successfully managing to overcome the many crises that confronted it. I shall just quote briefly from this year's annual report of the Reserve Bank: 
The Australian economy has been tightened and strengthened since the unprecedented developments or 1974. In the twelve months to December 1974, average weekly earnings rose by 28 per cent, consumer prices by 16 per cent, and so real wages by some 10 per cent- cramming into twelve months the normal trend growth of real wages accruing in about three years; and this in a year in which average productivity fell as output contracted. Commonwealth Government outlays were expanded (46 per cent on the previous year) and tax rates reduced, so that in the last quarter of 1974-75 the deficit . . . was running at an annual rate  of nearly SS billion. Business profits fell away very sharply in the course of 1974, and the number of registered unemployed trebled in the second half of the year. The story of economic management in 1975-76 by the Commonwealth Government and by the Reserve Bank, is essentially the story of measures to redress imbalances and to return the Australian economic framework to a condition from which it could resume normal growth and development. 
That is not bad for the Reserve Bank.  Mr R.  J. Hawke is a member of the Board. The normal practice is for all directors to sign the report. I hope he signed it with all the feeling and foresight that would have gone with the report. 
The powers of the Reserve Bank are considerable. First it has the power to regulate trading bank liquidity by means of the statutory reserve deposit and the liquids and government security reserves convention; secondly, the supervision and limitation of savings bank assets portfolios; thirdly, controls over bank lending as to both volume and general direction; fourthly, bank interest rate policy; fifthly, the capacity to engage in open market transactions in financial assets and thereby to influence not only bank liquidity but money market conditions generally. Those powers are wide ranging and have the effect of controlling the entire monetary scene within Australia. 
Because of that, tonight I wish to address one or two comments to the operations of the Reserve Bank in the open market. It is a very complex area and not one for Sunday morning reading. It is something which I believe should be spoken of because its performance in this area in the last 3 years has been outstanding, I believe. It has dealt in 3 principal securities- Commonwealth bonds, treasury notes and commercial bills. By far the greatest and most consistent security held is that of Commonwealth bonds. They are the ones which both superannuation funds and life societies are compulsorily forced to hold under the 30/20 rule. There are also other captive holders. I should like to mention them briefly. The savings banks in Australia hold 15 per cent of those on issue; 20 per cent is held by the trading banks; 15 per cent is held by the life and superannuation funds; and 13 per cent is held by the government trust. Acting around this holding is the official money market of Australia. There are 9 dealers within the market. The market itself has not holdings of a very considerable size at any particular moment- about $800m. It is in the movement of funds within this market that the real significance lies. In one year alone $ 10,000m changes hands in terms of volume. 
I should like to refer to some of the movements in the money market which reflect the goings-on in the Australian economy. There has been a big shift from what is called short end bonds- the short dated bonds- to the long dated bonds. This reflects, in itself, the confidence of the money market in the next two to three years of interest rates and, therefore, confidence in the economy. Because of this, we have seen a very big move out of the short dated bonds. Some $2 12m has changed hands from 8 July to date in one-year securities and more than $ 100m in 2-year securities. This has enforced the enormous success of the July loan which raised $725m. Of this, $409m- or 56 per cent- was raised from the nonbank area. This indicates the amount of money that is going into the area which has confidence in the future and the interest rate structure. 
I just make passing reference here to the forthcoming Telecom loan. I regret that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has just left the chamber. Undoubtedly, it will be a success. Any Government security, which I note will be fully endorsed by the Federal Government, which has called for subscriptions at .41 per cent over the Commonwealth rate must in itself be a success. I have no doubt that the Minister can look forward to that. Treasury notes were a new instrument introduced by the Reserve Bank in 1967. They were, in themselves, of little use until fairly recent times. They are issued in 2 forms- 13-week and 26-week. They are sold at a discount to the market. To appreciate the size of this, one has to refer back to July 1975 when at the height of the reversal- at that time the Government had reversed its money squeeze to a money avalanche- the high of that particular holding was about $2.2 billion. At 31 March 1976 it was still $1.3 billion. Yet today this has fallen to $204m- a massive change in the money forces within Australia. What is the significance? Any movement of that size, which is just short of the size of the deficit in the current Budget, has to be reasoned. 
Clearly the main factor behind it is the changing forces in interest rates. Interest rates at the short end are going up and at the long end are coming down. Because of this we see a consequential gap developing between what is termed the treasury bill rate, the commercial bill rate and the bank rate. This has reached 2'/i per cent. I should like to make one suggestion to the monetary authorities: that instead of the current procedure whereby treasury notes are issued to any institution which cares to turn up in any quantity at any time the Reserve Bank would offer treasury notes, on a weekly basis only, to a specific quantity. This would ensure that those who deal in the market would have to tender for these particular issues. This, in itself, would force the market to understand and set a prime short term interest rate. This, at the same time, would prevent the Reserve Bank from being placed in the embarrassing position- as it is at the present moment- that it could be in terms of interest rates paid on treasury notes. I suggest that the Australian capital market would be much stronger and much better if it were allowed some flexibility to set its own interest rates and pricing of these particular treasury notes. 
I should like to deal with the use of commercial bills in April-May this year when there was a very severe potential credit squeeze because of the incidence of both corporate tax and personal tax, and to one rather strange setting out of the taxation account the Reserve Bank moved in to buy bank endorsed commercial bills. It had not done this in any significant degree before. Its first operation in this area was in 1974. In April-May of this year the Reserve Bank had to find about $480m of the commercial bills or nearly 50 per cent of those on offer. I point this out purely because I think people ought to understand the enormous job that the Reserve Bank has carried out in the monetary area. It has been under great stress on occasions, knowing full well that Government policy was misdirected. The Reserve Bank has had to pick up the mess and put everything back together again. I congratulate it. Its actions in the market have been well judged and the job has been well done. I conclude by saying that it is a great pleasure to support the Budget. I look forward to the debate in this place tomorrow to hear what the socialist answer might be to a private enterprise approach. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.17)-The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  spoke about the high inflation rate and the large number of unemployed during the period of the Labor Government. He forgot to mention that there was an economic depression in the rest of the world during that period and that other countries also had high unemployment and high inflation rates. The renowned economist, J. K. Galbraith, has drawn attention to the fact that a small country cannot escape those things when they are happening in the larger parts of the world. The honourable member also neglected to say that that economic depression has now lifted in the rest of the world but due to the policies of this Liberal-National Country Party Government Australia is still in the midst of a depression and we still have a high inflation rate and a large number of unemployed. 
On Tuesday evening, 17 August, with the organised support of a rowdy group of regimented members of the Liberal and Country Parties, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made a statement in this House. Citizens from all corners of this great nation were awaiting and expecting such a Budget as we had been promised to be brought down. The people expected a Budget that would clearly indicate the strategy and point the way for Australia to take part and share in the world's economic return to a fairly rapid economic growth as indicated in  The Australian  on 17 August 1976. Most Australians were hoping that a Budget would be brought down that would in some way dim the memory of the blot on the history of our democratic way of life- a Budget that would in some way justify the sacking of a duly elected government. Many hundreds of thousands of those Australian citizens who were waiting for this Budget were already victims of the broken promises of the LiberalCountry Party Government. They had lost their jobs and they were receiving social security benefits.  Speaker  after  speaker  in this Parliament from the Government side had called them dole bludgers. Many thousands more were working in the shipyards in Whyalla and Newcastle and in other places which support the ship building industry directly and indirectly. They were waiting for some sign or some indication that this Government cared about what would happen to their jobs, to their homes and to their families. Many thousands of school leavers- 180 000 to be exact- were waiting for some indication that jobs would be available to them when they completed their schooling. Thousands of Aborigines who had been employed on special working projects, many of which had already been suspended when this Liberal-Country Party Government came to power, were waiting for some indication that this Government cared for them. Also waiting were many people in the fruit-growing areas who were gradually feeling the credit squeeze which was forcing them off their properties after many long years of hard work. In New South Wales 1568 apprentices who were unemployed were waiting for some indication that this Government cared for them. Many thousands of people in the building industry were looking to find some indication in this so-called Budget- this statement by the Treasurer on 17 August- that there was something in it for them. 
What did all these people get out of the Budget from the statement made by the Treasurer- or for that matter what did the great majority of Australians get out of it? I will tell honourable member's what they got: All they got from this House on that night was the organised rowdyism of Government supporters. The average citizen knows that this is not a Budget because it does nothing that a Budget should do. It is seen by the average Australian as a prescription for disaster. It is seen by the worker and by the craftsman or professional man as a blueprint for industrial unrest, causing a reduction in real wages, giving less spending power and causing greater unemployment. Never before has so much been taken away from the under-privileged section of the community and given to the privileged section. All this is because someone had convinced the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that any crime committed against decent Australians is justified so long as it can be claimed that it has been done to cure inflation. 
The Treasurer never mentioned the many problems I have spoken about this evening. The first 7 pages of his speech were meant to convince the public that profits are good and wages are bad; that unemployment and other things do not matter. So long as inflation is controlled no price is too high to pay. But, of course, the Treasurer went beyond the first 7 pages. He gave a clear indication of what section of the Australian community he intended should pay the price. While the big companies are getting all kinds of handouts, the under-privileged are asked to accept the vague promise that at some future time the larger companies which have been given this handout will reinvest their money in some place to produce some future jobs. 
Where does the Treasurer's statement map out a train of events that will reduce unemployment? He made no attempt to set a strategy for sound economic financial management that will benefit the great majority of the Australian people. Where are the elements that are estimated to give growth and progress to this country in this period of record unemployment? The Government has not been able to produce one national project that will in any way assist in relieving unemployment. Opposition members know plenty of areas that have been cut back, and so do members on the Government benches. The Treasurer has diverted more and more resources away from those bordering on the poverty line and those already suffering hardship. These resources are drawn to big business in the vague hope that they will be reinvested in areas to create job opportunities. This is the great package deal that we have heard the Government members harp about time and time again. 
Jobs are sacrificed in all directions but there is not one clear indication of where re-employment is likely to take place. While all this is going on the Government is looking to the trade union movement for co-operation. The Government is asking for wage restraint. It says: 'Accept less than full wage indexation', yet prices are rising. What a strange way to ask for co-operation. The day after the Treasurer's statement, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  gave some indication in this House of what kind of co-operation the Government was talking about. He read item after item of industrial disputes, including those of only one-and-a-half to 2 hours duration. 
Of course there are too many strikes in Australia but what causes the strikes? Does the Government ever look at the management side? When have we heard anyone from the Government say that management causes a strike? It is always the workers who are blamed. They like doing away with their wages, according to the Government. The only time I have heard Government supporters criticise management is when it puts a few more shillings in the workers' wage packets. A good instance was when management helped workers to pay the iniquitous Medibank levy. I do not know what caused all the strikes to which the Minister referred. I do not doubt that there were some stirrers on both sides- the management and the unions- and I do not doubt that we have a few stirrers in this House. 
The Minister was careful to make sure that he did not give us too much information, but I think each one of us knows what will cause the greatest industrial unrest in this country- the statement which was made by the Treasurer on 1 7 August. What a great package deal it was: Jobs sacrificed in all directions and handouts given to big companies who may or may not reinvest in job producing areas. There will be no jobs for university students who are expected to show their love for the Governor-General when they meet him on campus. Wage restraint is asked for. There will be less disposable income, less consumer spending and greater unemployment. No selfrespecting trade union official could hold his head up if he were to recommend that unionists accept this kind of package deal. The Prime Minister can ask for these things. He can ask the unionists to accept lower wages and he can ask for higher consumer spending, because none of these things affect him. He is immune from the lot of them. It would not matter what change took place, it would not affect the Prime Minister. Instead of racing down the road of direct and deliberate confrontation with the trade union movement the Prime Minister should call together the unions, management and the Government and put the cards on the table. If there is to be some reallocation of resources for the good of this country the unions- the workers- - would co-operate. They have always done so because they are the first ones to suffer. Management should indicate when and where this reinvestment will take place, when these extra jobs will be available. This is the only way in which a package deal can be negotiated. No selfrespecting trade unionist could go along with anything less. When this is done we can talk about cooperation and really mean it. 
I want to mention assistance to the mining industry. I believe that some form of assistance is overdue. But I cannot understand why assistance that will cause a mining boom in 1978 was given at this time when many mine workers are already being thrown out of work. Many of them have to leave their homes and find work somewhere else. I am particularly conscious of the position in Broken Hill. I believe the tax and royalties paid by the Broken Hill mining companies are possibly the highest in the world; if not the highest, they are certainly among the highest, many times greater than the rates paid by other Australian producers. Royalties absorb 50 per cent of the profits before tax when the profits are in excess of $9.2m. Through inflation these burdens are becoming increasingly severe. Broken Hill mine royalties are assessed on the following basis: Four per cent on the first $400,000 of profit increased by 2 per cent for each additional $400,000 to a maximum royalty of 50 per cent on profits in excess of $9.2m. The royalties scale has not changed since 1925, and inflation increases the percentage of the royalties paid. 
To give honourable members some idea of the distribution of the Broken Hill mine profits, the New South Wales Government takes up to 50 per cent in mining royalties and the Australian Government takes a minimum of 21.25 per cent in income tax. This leaves the companies with 28.75 per cent to pay out dividends, continue operations, provide working capital for exploration and development and for replacement capital, meet long term liabilities to employees such as severance pay, long service leave and holidays, and for expansion. The combined imposts of tax and royalties are excessive and add up to 71.25 per cent of profits. The future viability of Broken Hill and its mining companies requires a continuing investment. The combined impact of royalty and tax discourages this investment. The maximum extraction of minerals is not encouraged. I point out that the lode varies. There is a line of lode which has good ore, medium grade ore, break even ore and then a large body of what is called 'under break even ore'. The more of this ore that is left in the ground, the shorter the life of the City of Broken Hill. 
In 1975 the Broken Hill mining companies paid royalties of $27,491,000. They paid tax of $15,121,000, municipal rates of $1,127,000 and a water deficit of $996,000-a total of $44,736,000. Surely it is not too much to ask, when all this money has been paid into the coffers of both the State and Federal governments, that some assistance be given to Broken Hill mining companies. We are already suffering retrenchments at the South mine. I ask the Government to consider putting some finance into this area to keep the City of Broken Hill buoyant. The Government should allow losses in a financial year to be offset against past or future profits. There should be a provision for earnings to be carried forward 5 years or to go back 3 years when operations terminate because at the termination of a mine's operation- as with the South mine now- the longer it takes the mine to close down the more it costs because of severance pay, long service leave and such things. These payments are tax deductible only when they are paid out and if there is no profit earned from the mine the payments can cause a loss which can make the mine close down for longer. I ask the Government to give some consideration to this aspect and also some assistance to the Cobar mine. 
The Fraser Government has broken many of its promises. It has caused growing anxiety and disillusionment in the community. The Treasurer's statement will hold back economic recovery and will destroy many of the best and most popular reforms introduced by the Labor Government. There is division in every section of our community. The States are in revolt. I believe this Budget is no way to provide the opportunity for Australians to share in this world 's economic recovery. For this reason I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E.G. Whitlam). 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the Government is not concerned for those who are unemployed? Is it a fact that the  rate of unemployment showed its most rapid rise during the administration of the previous Labor Government? What measures does the Government propose to take to ease the problems of those concerned? 
Will the Prime Minister inform the House as to the decision of the Government on Fraser Island? Has the Queensland Government been informed of the decision and, if so, by whom and how? Is the Government prepared to look at alternative means of assistance to Maryborough and district as a result of loss of revenue to the area and increased unemployment? 
I was a bit at a loss to follow the argument of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  the Opposition spokesman on transport. He rambled through a number of areas which I do not think were relevant but showed the usual socialistic desire to bash the private enterprise airline and to make unreasonable comparisons between its operations and those of Trans- Australia Airlines. Briefly I will refer to the program that Qantas Airways Ltd is undertaking and how it proposes to finance the purchases of its next 3 Boeing 747 aircraft In past years this money has come from the Treasury. It is proposed on this occasion that a government guarantee be granted to Qantas so that it can raise this money outside normal sources. I welcome this approach. It is an approach which will allow public enterprises to be more accountable for their operations and to be more flexible in money raising. It follows the successful float of $200m by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I hope that other public enterprises in the future will show the same flexibility and the same degree of enterprise in going to the market place independent from the Treasury of the time and raising the money that they require for their operations. 
In the next 20 years Australia will need a major injection of funds if it is to achieve the level of potential that is undoubtedly in this nation. In government debt it will be argued that a higher level of debt can be carried so that capital works could be carried on from borrowings rather than from current revenue. In the government enterprise area large funds will be needed to keep the services operated by government enterprise up to date. In the case of the present, a government guarantee being granted places these public enterprises in a unique borrowing position and enables them to go to the market and acquire money at a much cheaper rate than would be otherwise available to corporations against which they sometimes compete. 
It is the method of raising with which I want to deal tonight. For years Australia has done its major borrowings overseas through prestigious investment houses. The most notable in the United States would be the well-known house of Morgan Stanley. The efforts have been very successful. At all times the Australian rating in the world capital markets has been AAA. One has to look only at the raisings of the last 5 years to see the well-balanced approach and the success of these raisings. In 1970-71 a total of $1 12m was raised from countries such as the United States and the Netherlands. The raisings in 1975-76 totalled $278m. This has been raised from countries such as the United States, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands and Switzerland. The success of these raisings points to the general standing of Australia and to the ability not only of governments but also of corporations to borrow abroad. 
It is because of this unique position that Australia ought to be looking at the mechanics by which it carries out its overseas raisings. Originally the only underwriters of source in Australia were stockbrokers. As capital requirements rose they sold off their money market operations in a typical shortsighted fashion which unfortunately characterises the stock market. If the Australian institutions had shown greater foresight for the long term potential they would have allowed the taking up of holdings in these companies and today there would have been a far greater preponderance of Australianowned merchant banks in this nation than there are. The list of the major merchant banks in Australia shows that only four are owned 50 per cent or more by Australian companies or partnership. It is because of this that I think we should look at the position of developing a capital orientated Australian market. The Government can give a lead in this area. When Qantas Airways Ltd is approached, as it will be, by overseas merchant banks to raise the amount that is necessary for the purchase of these 3 Boeing aircraft, it will be offered fixed rate borrowings, United States private placements and syndicated loans. Qantas will be told by the people offering the loans that they are the only people who can arrange for the loans and the only people who have the expertise to raise this money at the cheapest and most competitive rate. Australians in the field of underwriting will be shown to be lacking in the capacity to raise money, in their ability to be competitive in terms of rate and their ability and their expertise in putting the loans together. 
I want to put forward the proposal that the Government give consideration to the inclusion of an Australian underwriter or group of underwriters in future overseas borrowings. By this, expertise would be built up within Australia. Initially, the Australian participation in management syndicates would not be welcomed by the established underwriters. Their ability to perform would be doubted, but their original commitment need be only minimal. I am reminded of the Canadian experience. Canada's raising of capital in the 1950s was a major project of the Government. Most government raisings were undertaken by underwriters outside Canada. The Government required that a Canadian group be included in future management syndicates. Loan raising programs subsequently took in to a small degree established underwriters of Canadian background. The result has been the development of some major financial houses in that country, the most notable being Wood Gundy. There has been an impact on the invisibles in the balance of trade which could be well looked at. The amounts paid in underwriting commissions both on government loans, which in some cases would run into millions of dollars, and on commercial loans which are similarly raised at very high levels of commission would be overcome. One only has to look at the value to the United Kingdom of its earnings and the invisibles to see how important this matter is to that nation. Australia is a great trading nation. We have very large swings in the balance of trade. It is important, because of this, that we develop in Australia a viable and appropriate size of capital market. It is in this matter tonight- the overseas borrowings of Qantas Airways Ltd- that I put forward this idea to the Government and hope that it might proceed to deal with it. 
I address my question to the Minister for Construction. Recent newspaper reports would suggest that there has been no indication of recovery in the building industry. Can the Minister say whether recent statistics bear out this gloomy prediction? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
On what date was the Final Report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry (a) placed in the hands of the printers, (b) available in printed form to the Commissioners of the Inquiry and (c) forwarded to him by the Commissioners. 
Is the Prime Minister still confident that the referendum relating to the retiring age of Federal justices will succeed? 
-Can the Prime Minister give any information to the House on what the major objections of the peak trade unions were to the wage-price pause? 
-I listened with interest to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  put forward the Opposition's views on the economy. As I listened it became very apparent that the Opposition has learned nothing from its 3 years in Government. It would continue to expand the Government deficit. It would continue to spend largely in the government sector. It would continue to push along into the area of a wages spiral. I would have hoped it might have learned something after its experiences during its 3 years in office in which the consumer price index rose from 4 per cent to 15 per cent or 16 per cent, in which unemployment rose from 100 000 people in round figures to 300 000 and in which there was a lack of business confidence. But I note from the editorial in today's  Australian Financial Review-  this is the publication quoted by the honourable member- the following comment was made: 
The Labor Party is lacking in its duty to shape up as an Opposition because it is not really interested in the country's economic problems. The ALP is presently consumed by a leadership struggle between  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden. 
As I listened to the honourable member for Adelaide, the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs, I assumed that he had counted himself out of that struggle, but was thinking of writing himself back into it. 
The problems facing Australia are great. I will not shirk conceding that point. Inflation creates a very great problem. Unless it is brought under control the whole structure and fibre of the nation will collapse. I am very heartened by the quarterly CPI figures which were released today. The 2.3 per cent increase is a remarkable achievement particularly in view of the pressures brought about by increased import costs and the other pressures that are around at the present time. I would like to congratulate the Government on its performance in this area. This achievement points to the fact that there is some basic underlying confidence that we sometimes fail to see in some areas. 
I am concerned about the level of unemployment, which is too high. I am particularly concerned about the very high percentage of unemployed youth. I believe this is an area at which the Government will have to look in the future because we cannot afford to have the youth of the nation unemployed. The social problems that flow from unemployment are quite enormous. I am sure something will be done in the future to alleviate this problem. 
I would like to pay particular attention to some of the problems which face the Government in framing the 1977-78 Budget. I believe there are a number of areas in which there is certainly confusion and uncertainty. I think the Government should have in mind that the Budget should be a light on the hill for people to see. People should be able to see which way taxation reforms will flow. They should be able to see which way they can expect interest rates to develop. By framing the Budget in this way the people will be able to take a positive step in the areas of personal exertion, personal investment and personal initiative. 
There is no doubt that some of the sacred cows of Australia will have to be pruned. We cannot afford to continue a number of programs without a significant lift in taxation, which no one wants, or a very extensive lift in the deficit. It might be all very well for the Opposition spokesman on the economy to say that all we have to do is aggressively to sell bonds. Our record in this area to date has not been too good. I shall refer to this matter later in my speech. But while we are pruning expenditures, which were allowed to blossom at an enormous rate during 1 972-75 we will need to look at the question of flexibility in certain areas. As programs are cut and as expenditure and outlays are cut the impact does not fall evenly across the nation. It will be necessary to look in terms of special relief in special areas. I hope that some notice can be taken of these problems when the Budget is framed. In every Budget I think that too little attention is given to the question of income. We always speak in terms of expenditure and later say: 'Where do we find the income.' The Government has already given concessions in the area of tax indexation, investment allowances and stock adjustment. These are very significant giveaways in terms of Government income. The amount of money in one particular full year could well be approaching $2,000m. This giveaway or concession will, in my view, naturally inhibit the ability of the Government to give personal income tax concessions on a large scale. I very much doubt that taxation concessions would win wage concessions in the current climate and under the current leadership of the trade unions. I hope that people will recognise the contribution made by the Government in the area of taxation. 
It is worth drawing one small parallel that if these concessions had not been given- I think that in no small way they have had an impact on economic activity in Australia- the amount of personal income tax could be withdrawn significantly. I refer to the question of the deficit because it is this area around which so many of the arguments revolve. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide, was very emphatic that this area should be expanded to allow the Government to encroach further into the area of the private sector, to bid away resources and to give out largesse on a large scale. How do we fund the deficit and what is the impact of it? In funding the deficit on an internal basis in Australia the greatest impact falls in the area of interest rates. It is the area of interest rates which I believe has the greatest impact on economic activity, an impact far greater than personal taxation. Quite clearly, we are caught in a bind. To support high levels of deficit, one must go out of the market place and bid for money. When one bids for money, one is forcing up interest rates. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  would know that only too well. The Government will have to pay marked attention to the area of interest rates if it is to promote consumer spending. 
There is no doubt that if high levels of interest rates are pursued, this will encourage people to save and not spend. High levels of deficit create uncertainty and do the same in terms of consumer spending. I urge the Government, when it approaches the question of funding the deficit, to be particularly cautious not to push the rates higher than it absolutely has to. Indeed, I hope that they would not go above current levels. What can the Government do in order to sell bonds in Australia? What is the history of it? The Government has only 2 options. It can set out to make bonds more attractive for people to buythat is a fact of prices and interest rates-or it can force subscriptions. It is as simple as that. I am philosophically attracted to market forces. Therefore, I would like to look at some of the ways in which the deficit can be funded in 
Australia. In the 1950s most investment portfolios held by individuals had a 20 per cent to 25 per cent component of Government bonds. Today there would be very few private investors who hold any significant amounts of money in Government securities. Why is this? It is because over the last 20 years almost invariably everyone who has invested in Government securities has lost money through the rate of inflation. As inflation went up, interest rates went up. As interest rates went up, the value of the assets held went down. 
Until this trend is reversed and interest rates are reduced the flow of money to assets will stay in liquid form. In this time, Government securities nave been very unpopular. At the same time Australia has established a money market in which there are 9 operators who hold approximately $ 1 ,000m to $ 1 ,200m in Government securities. But this is a very haphazard operation. The secondary market in Government securities is remarkably poor; indeed, it is a disgrace. I hope that one way in which the Government security market could be made more attractive would be to have a look at this market. It might be that there ought to be a committee of inquiry to investigate ways in which the money market in Australia can be made a more effective working organisation. I think many of the operators in that area would welcome it. In Canada, the United States and Great Britain a very conscious effort is made to make the market an attractive place. Governments, banks, reserve banks and central banks in those countries do this for the particular reason that they know that if they have a viable market they can go to it at any stage and raise significant amounts of money to fund their deficits or to fund particular programs that come along from time to time. 
In Australia there are 3 basic forms of securitiesTreasury notes, savings bonds and Commonwealth bonds. These have limited appeal. I think that if more are to be sold the Government must look at some new alternatives in this area to enable it to attract the money that it will need to fund the deficit. The honourable member for Adelaide will need a very big load of alternatives to do this. Firstly, the Government might well give consideration to lifting the limit on the amount of money that can be subscribed to savings bonds. Currently, it is $100,000. Secondly, I would like to pursue the argument of indexed bonds. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  put forward a case not long ago that the Government should accept indexation of bonds as one of the ways in which significant amounts of money can be obtained from the non-bank sector. I will try, as hard as I can, to put that argument to one side. Firstly, the acceptance of an indexed bond is an admission of defeat by inflation. Secondly, it would create in itself a rush of all other securities to an indexed position. I have seen indexation of wages; I have seen indexation of taxes and I have seen indexation of various social security payments. I am bound to say that I have grave reservations about their workings, on all fronts. 
In the area of taxation, it has always been my view that the Government should set a rate and live by it, that the indexation of taxation is, in itself, a way in which one can put it to one side and say that it just comes automatically. In the long run, a series of indexations will result in such distortions in whatever is being dealt with that it will become an unmanageable proposition. From a selling point of view, indexed bonds will create an enormous distortion. It is my experience that the person who wants to place money on fixed deposit wants to know 2 things. He wants to know whether the money is secure and what return he will get. In this circumstance, he will get the same security but the interest rate he will receive will be a matter of how the economy performs. Those who buy fixed deposits at a falling rate- if one accepts that one day there will be a negative consumer price index- might well get a nasty shock. The history of indexed securitiesand they are not new throughout the world- has never been a happy one. I hope that we will never come to that situation in Australia. The third form, which I think has considerable merit, is the reintroduction of a tax free or rebatable bond. This would have an enormous appeal to those who have not found a successful investment opportunity in the last three or five years. It would be an opportunity in which significant reductions could be made in the cost of securities, by way of a 5 per cent or 6 per cent coupon, which would allow the Government not to put the pressures on to the interest rates about which I spoke before, but to mop up as much excess cash as possible of that held in some of the corporations and some of the areas of individual investment. 
Care would have to be taken in the framing of this area to avoid the old technique of tax washing. I think this can be done. It was demonstrated before that it could be done and there is no reason to believe that it cannot be carried out again. Any introduction of an instrument which would have the power of sale that this would have, would need to be introduced with care. If there is a rapid subscription to it from areas which normally put their money in housing societies or savings banks one would have to watch the consequences of that as they occurred. The fourth form would be to introduce a form of bond option. It is an area which I have not seen used but it has been used successfully by stock exchanges in some areas to promote sales and interest in various securities. I believe the only way in which the Government will be able to sell Government securities is to get out, brush up the image of the stock and make it more attractive, saleable and realistic in terms of its approach to the market. 
I said at the beginning that the alternative is to force subscription to government securities. I have no great liking for that style of approach. But we already have a 30-20 rule and it would not be particularly difficult to make that a 40-20 ratio and to embrace the fringe banks and other institutions. As I said before, it is a policy in which I do not believe because I think the market forces would be a far better method of handling the problem of funding the deficit. It is vital that we understand and look at ways that we go about meeting the problem. The consequences to interest rates are enormous. Unless we get interest rates and taxation down we will never inspire consumer confidence to get consumer spending going at the level which we will require ultimately to break the wages and prices spiral. I believe that this can be done only through a vast lift in productivity and that can be achieved really only by a significant improvement in consumer spending. 
Overseas borrowings on a large scale which may be necessary can be achieved. I hope that people will not shrink from big numbers when they talk of borrowing from overseas. Let us look to the future. I believe that there is a basic belief in the Australian community that the economy will come right. Australia has too many great resources for the economy to do anything else. These resources have enabled this country to come through many crises in the past. We have resources- energy and power resources- which will stand Australia in good stead in the future. But unless we have a strong short-term resolve to reduce the deficit we will never get properly on this course. The Government must clearly state its policy and stand by it. It is no time for vacillation or for double approaches to various items or policies of economic strategy. If these goals are achieved 1978 should see a significant upturn in the Australian economy. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to Press reports that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is seeking a referendum on the question of uranium development? Does the Government propose to take up the suggestion? 
I wish tonight to speak on some aspects of the Budget which have not been mentioned. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  like other members of the Australian Labor Party, concentrated his comments wholly and solely on the fiscal areas of the Budget. Tonight I would like to speak about monetary aspects of the Budget because it is in this area that the state of the economy will be determined in the next 12 months. It is in this area that we have to look at questions of the exchange rates and interest rates to understand where we will be at 30 June 1978. The fiscal policy has been laid down. It is in the area of monetary management from now on that we will sink or swim in relation to the future of Australia and indeed in the future of politics in Australia. 
I would like to say something in respect of exchange rates. It has become almost a daily habit for members of the Opposition to get up and ask a few Dorothy Dix questions about exchange rates which they base on comments from the front page of the  Australian Financial Review.  Certainly our reserves have moved down. There is no denying that. But we have to look at the question of how this can be best resolved. There is no doubt that Australia, with its tremendous resources, should be looking in terms of managing the exchange rate in a clear and precise way so that people know what we are on about. So far, regrettably, I do not think that has been done. I hope in the future we will establish first a forward market in the exchange rate area so that foreign investors who wish to come to Australia to participate in the major development of this nation can do so without fear of incurring a loss. Those proposals have been put forward. I hope that the Government will give reasonable and speedy thought to them. 
In respect of foreign exchange, I think that we ought to look at the question of differential interest rates. In Australia we have a remarkably high level of interest at the moment. If we compare this with the overseas interest rates one normally would expect that money would come into government securities in Australia from low interest areas. The bank rate of interest in England is around the 6 per cent mark. The American interest rate structure, the bank rate, the prime rate, is about 7W per cent. Clearly there is a marked differential in relation to the Australian Government rates of 10 per cent to 10.5 per cent- 10 per cent at the short end. Why is this money not coming here? It is for the simple reason that Australia does not give adequate forward cover on exchange rates. If this were to occur a great deal could be accomplished in terms of lowering the short term interest rates and putting a stop to the run on the Australian exchange that we are seeing today. 
A lot of the movement is caused by the terms of trade which have moved against Australia very significantly in the last 12 months. I do not see any immediate prospect of this improving. Commodity prices in the world today have taken a dramatic turn for the worse. This is not likely to improve when economic prospects around the world are anything but good. So in those circumstances I hope that the Government will give prime priority to the exchange rate. It needs to be defended. It needs to be understood. It needs to be put in such a position that business and commerce can readily use it without fear and can come to this nation for long term investment. I am not shrinking from the problem when I say that we need at least $ 1,000m to balance our account on foreign exchange before 30 June next year. 
The second major item undoubtedly rests in the area of interest rates. They are far too high in Australia. However, the Government, through its efforts in economic management and its effort to control inflation, is moving towards bringing these interest rates down. It has indicated this in its moves in the money market but I think we ought to look at what constitutes the cost of interest. For far too long we have said that interest has to be high because inflation is high. If the rate of inflation is 12 per cent and the rate of interest is lower than that, the owner of money is losing out. It is time we gave some consideration to the borrower because he is the person paying something in excess of the inflation rate and he is the one who has to make that money work before any profit, or further employment or expansion of activity can take place. So interest rates have to be considered in terms of these possibilities. 
What is going on? Well, there has been a modest fall. What is the mechanism behind these modest falls? I do not think that people in Australia have a great grasp of how interest rates come down. I have heard people with some credibility talk in terms of a 2 per cent fall in government rates. Quite clearly this is just not on. At the present moment I have never seen the Australian capital market so over bought in terms of government securities. We have a tight liquidity situation- the banking system- under which the institutions in Australia, the insurance companies, the banks themselves, and the money market operators, are heavily committed to government securities. However the July loan issue, which was pre-subscribed, heavily subscribed in the issue, and subsequent pre.subscriptions totalling about $ 1,200m, has brought about a tight liquidity situation within the community. In addition we have seen a significant run down on the external account. No country, particularly Australia, can stand around and contribute to government securities on one side, and contribute to the outflow of funds on external account, and wonder why the domestic interest rates are so high. The banks at present would be well strapped in terms of liquidity. They would have to be selling short dated bonds to meet these situations. The Commercial Banking Co., which admittedly has domestic problems, moved away the other day from its overdraft situation to term lending and this was in no small way attributable to the use of these overdrafts at the moment. 
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the money market today a lot of institutionsthe savings banks in particular and the superannuation funds- have very significant book debts in relation to their government security holdings. If they were to liquidate today they would lose millions so in no small way they have doubled-up their position in the hope that they might get out as the Government moves to reduce interest rates. This has had a dramatic effect on investment patterns within the government sector. In terms of the usual spread of 15 to 20 years they have moved their investment programs right back to the short end of the market. As a consequence today the life insurance companies, the superannuation funds, the traditional long term lenders in the market, have moved their commitments back because when they lent long in the past they lost millions. Today a long term investment is 10 years, and the shorter the book the better they like it. This will have enormous repercussions in terms of Australia's development. 
-Well, I would not like their prospects under the Opposition. They are so many millions behind because of what happened when they put in their money under a Labor Party Government. Investment patterns in the future will have a significant bearing on raising funds in this community for the development projects which must take place. I am as much an Austraiian as anyone else and I hope that the development programs here will embrace the Australian investor as much as possible but this is not going to take place when the capital market in Australia is as strapped as it is today. 
What can we do to improve the situation? It is no good complaining unless you have a few remedies. I have always thought that the Reserve Bank of Australia did a remarkably good job, given the position it is in. There is no doubt that the influence of the Treasury in its representation on the Reserve Bank Board, and its overall influence, has been something of a heavy hand on operations in the Australian capital market. At present the Reserve Bank is an open supplier for Treasury notes. It is a question of taking your bank cheque down and coming back with what you want- a rather remarkable position of supply and demand. The Reserve Bank is an open supplier of savings bonds. The same procedure applies- take your cheque down and come back with what you want. 
Government bonds and Commonwealth securities are available on issue at the advertised price or you can have pre-subscriptions. As I said about the July issue, very significant amounts were taken out in the pre-subscription area. At the moment the Reserve Bank has very limited ability to defend the yield curve which is of paramount importance in determining government interest rates. As a consequence of this set procedure there is almost a phobia within the Treasury of the speculator. The speculator is almost carried away. Anything that is speculative or not understood is regulated. Things are much simpler that way. The Treasury says: 'Let us not give the market forces a go because then we do not really know what is going on. ' 
What of the performance of government securities? In 1969 the M3 was $14 billion. The figure for sales of government securities to nonofficial holders was $6.8 billion and to the captive market it was $5.7 billion, roughly 50 per cent. In 1977 the M3 was $36.3 billion. Nonofficial holders of government securities had $11.5 billion and the captive market $10.7 billion, almost one-third. In the period between 1969 and 1977 the general performance of the Reserve Bank in selling government securities, acting as agent for the Treasury and therefore the Government, was significantly down. What can we do to improve this? Unless we develop a capital market in Australia we will never have any hope of being able to fund government securities, fund the government operation, or go on to the development projects. 
What can we do to improve the general performance? I believe that the Reserve Bank needs a markedly freer hand. The influence of the Treasury ought to be allowed to wane in this area. The Reserve Bank of Australia should be allowed to operate in no small way along the lines of the American Federal Reserve or the Canadian Central Bank. With freedom and less interference I believe we can get a much steadier and much better operation within the money markets. To do this we need to know what will be the projected government debt in the coming 12 months. That should not be difficult to ascertain. We also need to know what is the cash flow position between the banks and the cash flow external to Australia. I am told that at present this information is not readily grasped by the Reserve Bank. These figures are available and I am quite sure that they could be obtained much more quickly than they are obtained at present. 
I suggest that we change our approach to marketing by requiring that in future all government loans be set to an amount. In other words, instead of the July issue being open ended at the stated interest rates, it should be set. Let us take a figure of, say, $500m. The July issue raised more than $700m. In all my experience in the financial world I have not known any commercial lender, any semi-government borrower or any central bank borrower to go to the market at an interest rate and say: 'I will take what is going'. That is an untenable position. Anyone who says that it is to difficult to work out needs only a few elementary lessons in mathematics because the figures would come from the Budget. 
Let me now consider treasury notes. Last year the volume of treasury notes held varied from $300m at the low point to about $2,700m. That is quite a fluctuation. 
-In one year. Most of that money went out in taxation payments in March, April and May. These treasury notes are available on demand, but I suggest that in future treasury notes be put forward on a weekly tender basis for a certain quantity. If this were done, all the people who were operating in the market would be able to assess from the tender the demand for money. They could tell whether there was a heavy demand or whether there was not. At present we would not be able to sell very many treasury notes. There is not the liquidity to take them up. Current subscriptions would point that out. Treasury notes are a very valuable instrument; but they should not be allowed to operate on a completely on-demand basis, as they are doing at the moment. 
Savings bonds are something of which we have not made great use. They ought to be the main retailer of government securities, and Commonwealth bonds ought to be the wholesaler for the professional users, for the money market and for the banks. The savings bonds provide for a $200 minimum subscription from, say,  Mrs Smith  of Bankstown and all other general subscribers. 
-I thought that was where all the money was. If this suggestion were adopted, we would be able to sort out the approach of the Reserve Bank in a far simpler and better understood manner. We must stop the use of the open window selling operations that currently exist. They are not useful to anyone in the market; they are not useful to the Government; and certainly they are not useful to the Reserve Bank. 
I turn now to the Reserve Bank itself. It acts as agent for the Treasury in selling government securities and in the handling of securities. In that agency position it has to know what its riding instructions are. It appears that sometimes those riding instructions are conveyed merely by telephone and from time to time they can vary. I hope that the Reserve Bank will be given a much freer hand to deal within the market and will be given the ability to hold a portfolio of government securities and to deal both ways in the market at any given time. This would enable the Reserve Bank to understand demands far better. 
The argument against that suggestion, of course, is that if the Reserve Bank is the holder of a portfolio of government securities it will not have the ability to switch quickly in interest rates. But that is sheer nonsense. Anyone can move out of government securities and if the Reserve bank has not that ability-! believe that it has-it should hire it so that it can move from one position to another and force market play to get on with the job which currently is not being done. Its real ability is to establish the position of the yield curve which currently is maintained on a minimum of effort, although at present we are moving it down and considerable amounts are moving in this operation. I am talking in terms of any significant movement downwards in interest rates. There will be an avalanche of people willing to sell their government security holdings if we move down by any significant amount. At present the Reserve Bank has not the ability to do any significant buying in that area. It would be a very limited buyer at the field curve figure and would back away the next day. In this sense its real position would be abdicated. 
I shall make two final points because my time is running short. The time may well come when the Reserve Bank should be detached from its responsibility to the Treasury to become the real agent, the real central bank. It may well be a far greater discipline on government spending than indexation, which frankly has not been a great success, to put it upon the Reserve Bank to raise all the government debt and to remove from the Reserve Bank the facility for the IOU to fund short term or long term government debt. It would be a magnificent discipline on government for it to be forced into the market to sell its securities to raise funds to cover its own debt. 
Before we go into the commercial bank area we ought to recognise that there is a vast need for an inquiry generally into the Australian capital market. It is not working effectively and has not done so for years. The Government has contributed to this in no small way by allowing the Treasury to dominate the Reserve Bank, with the Reserve Bank consequently not operating appropriately in the area. I could go on to deal with matters relating to commercial banks in Australia. I do not believe that in many cases they have fulfilled the role which the citizens of Australia would like to see them fulfil. They have not been the risk takers, the adventurers, which we would want them to be in a country such as Australia. The facilities are there; the savings are there. We as a government should not back away from any move towards this. We ought to look into the situation to determine what is going on in these areas, particularly in the recent development of the very extensive use of certificates of deposit - 
-Can the Treasurer give any information as to when the September consumer price index figures will be released? Is he aware of the significance that these figures will have on business confidence in Australia? 
-I listened with great interest to the speech of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I was wondering whether he was giving the chamber a travelogue on his electorate as he pleaded a special case for a technical college in his area. I want to make a few comments in this debate on education today in Australia. It seems to me that a number of misconceptions are creeping into our education system. What concerns me most of all is what to do with the final product because far too often these days when one speaks to personnel managers of companies and when one speaks to people in various avenues of employment and you see the product which has been turned out from some of our educational centres you must pose the question: Are we on the right course? I sometimes feel that not a great deal of consideration is given to the basic causes but rather to some of the personal ambitions and empire building by people in some of our educational institutions. We are turning out a product which in many cases will be unemployable. We are unrelating our causes to the demands of today. We are not listening to the demands of the personnel managers in this nation. I think it is a matter of very great concern that these matters are not being looked at in the appropriate areas. 
I have spent a number of years on the council of an Australian university. I have been to two universities, one here and one overseas. I am quite convinced that we need these days to review the general course of education. Expectations to the young have been fanned to a general degree that will not be able to be met in the 1980s and 1990s. A more practical approach is needed to the general avenues of education. I have to refer only to the well known Bachelor of Arts courses at universities. They are generally interesting but in the main produce a product which is not employable in today's society. I have to look only at the question of where is the general tenor of direction of some of our universities and some of our other institutes. I am bound to say that I do not see it there. 
There is not the relationship between the institutions and universities and society that there ought to be. There is not the cross relationship in setting the criteria of a course, in setting up the various parts of a department, that one would like to see when looking to the future of Australian youth. Where is the wisdom in this? It is in education that we have planned everyone's expectations as to the salvation of the future. I believe we will need to approach this in a far more pragmatic way. 
I refer for a start to the basic problem of sabbatical leave. One of the points which comes up at university councils and senates is the increasing use of this leave for the personal travel of a member of a senate or of an institution without any real relativity to what he is doing. I suggest that some consideration be given to the more appropriate use of this leave. A senior member of a law faculty could well exchange his year and work for a law firm and a member of the law firm could well work at the university. The same could be applied to engineering, accountancy and a number of the other professions. This, in itself, could start to build a cross relationship between the institute, the educational centre and the period of real life. In my view we are letting them float apart too much. 
I refer also to a number of people who go through universities under the very privileged conditions which exist today and who opt out of life and stay at that institution because they do not want to go any further. There are some very good academics; quite frankly there are some very average ones, people who are afraid to get out and swim in the water. I would like to see in this cross relationship that instead of a sabbatical junket we take on a suggestion that the people concerned might go into the real world and work in the accountancy offices, in the engineering offices, in the mines and in the law offices of the nation and thereby get some real relativity into some of the courses of today. 
Another avenue which I think will have to be looked at in the near future is the question of colleges of advanced education. These were established in fairly recent times to develop technical education. There is far more technical education needed in Australia. What has really happened in a lot of these colleges is that the empire builders have arrived. Instead of the colleges being satisfied with granting diplomas they now have to grant degrees. So they move within their own priorities and their own wishes. Frankly, it is time that stopped. These are technical education centres, and that is the services they should be forced to provide. It should be out with the empire builders and on with the common sense. The 1980s and 1990s I think will be a period of challenge for the individual- a personal survival test, one in which people should be equipped to meet the difficulties that will undoubtedly abound. It is not a time to fan expectations. It is not a time to turn technical education courses into another form of university which in itself produces an unemployable product. 
We are not seeing the development or the demand for tertiary services that a lot of people expected. There is no reason to expect that this will occur under the economic circumstances that are likely to prevail in the 1980s and into the 1990s. I would like to bring some real relevance back into not only the universities but also the colleges of advanced education. Within these universities and centres there ought to be, through the Department of Education, some way in which the general thrust of spending programs is reviewed. In my time on one of the university councils it was a question of who could put up the best muscle around the finance committee and at the council meeting itself. Honourable members might well say that there is nothing new about that and that it even happens here. But it is a case where priorities should be set. Individuals should not be allowed to get into the centres with their own particular bent and direct moneys into areas which have very little relevance to the future. 
As time is rapidly getting away from me, I will conclude on this point. While I have dealt with the higher levels of education I think we also need to do something in the primary and secondary levels. Governments in the 1960s and 1970s have undoubtedly paid a lot more attention to education than previously. I think they need to be commended for that, particularly in regard to universities. In some ways I suspect that secondary education has not been brought up to date and has not quite met the demands. It is this area in which the majority of young people will have to make their decision as to what they will do in the future. In some cases the decision will be made for them by their inability to pass exams. Nevertheless, it is in the secondary school that we should be putting forward the opportunities and involving these people within the community and involving the community with the schools. Unless the younger people are exposed to the likelihood of their future employment, to the real problems of the world and to the real problems down the street, frankly we are putting them into a position where they will not be able to cope when they leave school and when they are forced onto the job market and into relationships with other people which they may not be able to handle. I simply wanted to make this brief contribution to the estimates and to congratulate the Government. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
On what date was the final report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry (a) placed in the hands of the printers, (b) available in printed form to the Commissioners of the Inquiry and (c) forwarded to him by the Commissioners. 
I listened with interest to the contributions made by the two spokesmen from the Opposition. They were just diatribes stemming from the anti-business, business bashing, anti-profit and anticompetitiveness instinct of the Australian Labor Party. It is very disappointing, because only recently in Pitt Street I heard that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was around town and was telling the business doyens of Pitt Street: 'Look, we really are not a socialist party. We understand business. We know all about this business of profit'. Really he was getting on very well with those people. I congratulate him on his approaches. Those people were sucked in by the proposition. Indeed, I hope the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  makes available some of the Fabian pamphlets. I have not read them but if they are half as good as the stories the honourable member for Oxley has been putting over they must be pretty good. 
I come to one or two other things which the honourable member for Oxley said. After what he said, I have no doubt at all as to why the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  was thinking of sending him to the Foreign Affairs portfolio or the Defence portfolio should Labor come to office. The honourable member alluded to the problems of the Utah company. He said: 'Look at Utah's massive pay-out. Fiftyone per cent of its profit is paid out overseas'. Then he compared that pay-out with BHP's payout. I think the figure he cited was about  3lA  per cent. Well, what is the difference? Anyone would know that BHP is confronted with a massive expansion program. Any internal revenue retained profits will be mighty handy in the development of the North West Shelf, not to mention other areas. BHP is incurring massive losses in steel in Australia and in the development of its mining operations. Utah is not in a position to engage in any further expansion at this moment because of labour problems in central Queensland. The Norwich Park project has not been allowed to go on because of labour troubles in that area. 
The honourable member for Oxley also went on to discuss some of the questions relating to why governments move out of currencies. When we talk about international currencies, we have to understand that we are going through a period of enormous change. I do not think any honourable member would have foreseen such a tremendous improvement in sterling or the enormous fall in the American dollar in the last 6 months. The American balance of payments situation is quite the most drastic I have seen since the War. Its repercussions are yet to be felt. We still have not seen the real consequences of it. We have seen how the European currencies have withstood the onslaught of the huge deficits coming from America. The warning signals are there. The price of gold is moving up. That is a bad sign for anyone involved in international trade. Any person employed as the treasurer of a multinational company would be very concerned at the moment not to get his company locked into currencies which may have some difficulties. I do not doubt for a moment that if I were the treasurer of one of these companies I would be looking at the options involved in covering the company's position. This is why I believe there is a tremendous need in Australia to introduce a forward exchange cover market. If we had had these tools of financial management, a lot of the problems with currency runs that we have been experiencing in the last 6 months to a year would not have occurred. 
I turn now to the view of overseas people and how they look at the question of evaluating what they should do with funds in Australia. Firstly, they look at costs within the nation. Then they look at the record of industrial trouble; that is a very sad story. Then they look at the standard of Australian management- and that is not always good. Then they look at the question of exchange rates. Then they look at economic management in this country- whether the government has the will to dominate the economy, to bring inflation under control and to bring a sense of proportion back to the nation as a whole. Finally, they look at political stability. They want to know whether the government will honour contracts, whether it will honour agreements, whether it will honour undertakings given. They look at the ALP and its record. A Labor government would welsh on the uranium contracts. That has been said publicly. They look at the New South Wales Government and the way in which it welshed on the coal leases. These are the sorts of records which overseas people look at. They add to that the basic anti-business view of the ALP and therefore they are concerned about the prospects of having a socialist government in this nation. 
I am not referring to any one particular area of investment; I am talking about America, the Continent and Japan. These are always the points that come out: Costs, labour problems, political stability and the exchange rate as a consequence of that. It is from these areas that they make their judgment as to whether to invest in Australia, whether to hold their position in Australia or whether to withdraw their funds. This comes within the area of judgment and speculation. I hope people will understand these matters because we will never be able to control speculation. There will always be an element of this in exchange rate and currency movements. This is particularly so at the moment because overseas patterns are so uncertain. If this were really understood, there would not be some of the hysteria that goes on about exchange rates and we really would not have to face half of the vexing problems that confront us. 
Finally, I wish to say a few words about multinationals. They are one of the great whipping horses around here. They can be readily thrown off at. Apparently one of the problems with Utah is that it makes a lot of money. What a tremendous crime! There are an enormous number of multinationals and major companies in this country which lose millions of dollars a year. We do not hear too much about them. But because Utah has made a success of its operations, it is belted roundly for its troubles. I would have hoped Utah would be given the opportunity to develop, to use its resources, to use its research and techniques and to use the funds it undoubtedly has in the future development of this nation. Had the opportunities been provided to Utah, I have no doubt these funds would not have been removed. We have to look at the situation in the context of the management of a multinational group. If it is prohibited or shut out from one particular market clearly it will move somewhere else, and the funds will be lost to Australia if there is an alternative investment in some other country. In making that judgment, the group will have to look at the same old things- costs, labour relations, political stability and currency. If those four factors are met in some other country and are better than those available in Australia, clearly the company will move to that other country. It is up to us to provide and ensure the proper climate for the development of this nation. These are the people who can provide us with the jobs, the know-how and the techniques. 
There are times when such companies act not in the national interest but in their own interest and it is up to the government of the day to ensure that the interests of this nation are looked after. Australia's interests should not be left to the rhetoric that is used to frighten people to the hills. We should get these companies in, get them involved in projects and then get the economic process going. Once we have those companies here they are then open to negotiation. No person who has thousands of millions of dollars involved in any particular area will back off from sensible negotiations. This is why I should like to see this nation, which will always be dependent on foreign currency, foreign money, for its development in the foreseeable future to go out and welcome foreign investment. 
I come to the warning point. It is most important that we offer partnerships and not just give away equities. It is most important that as far as possible we should turn to the question of loans rather than equity. Of course we are not going to be able to get all the money in on loan account only; there will have to be an equity sweetener. There is a tremendous need to understand that Australia is capital hungry. Its needs in the foreseeable future in respect of the known projects alone are enormous. We must use our negotiating skill, our political stability and our economic management to ensure that these people, when they come to Australia, invest their money in Australia and that the money is used in the national interest. The government of the day has a great responsibility to see it through. 
I see very little merit in the raising of this matter for discussion. It is probably one of those things that ties in with the nervousness of some people in the Opposition who are facing an election. Because of this they are kicking around any can they can find. They are trying to kick a nationalistic can but really they are belting confidence and belting business. They are back to their old tactics which have proved to be so hopeless in the past and which will again prove to be so when election day comes round. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Australian Government taken any particular initiatives in pursuit of a safer nuclear proliferation environment? 
-I congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his re-election and his knighthood and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. Speaking in the Address-in-Reply debate gives one an opportunity to look at some of the matters that face Australia today on a more general basis than is available in some of the other debates. I would like to spend my time in looking at the problems that have come about in Australia in the 1970s and at some of the points which I do not think are recognised by the Government or indeed by many people in the world of commerce in Australia. We have gone through a resource usage revolution. The 1950s and 1960s was a time when the resources of Australia applied to economic growth. The background was based on meeting post war shortages, on a growing population, on a rapidly industrialising Australia and on what was very much a rural economy. We saw industry striving to develop the areas of production and productivity which were so great into the 1960s. 
In the 1960s we saw a change in emphasis again. The service industries came to the fore. The 1960s saw a profitability and a profit centre grow in Australia as we had never seen before. Unique opportunities were taken by both corporations and individuals to expand their positions in society. The 1970s have brought about a completely different aspect in the Australian economy. For the first time we have come to realise that the population is not growing at the rate we expected. Business expectations that were fanned so heavily in the late 1 960s are not being met and will not be met. 
I recall in the late 1960s listening to the chief executive of Australia's largest insurance company talking about his problems of investing in the year 2000 on the expectations of that time. I know only too well today that those expectations are not met and the real problem of insurance companies is one of survival in the face of many surrendered policies. In the face of the present situation I think it is fair to say that we ought to look at manufacturing industry in particular because this is the area which is the biggest employer of people in Australia. Manufacturing industry has something like 25 per cent of Australia's employment. What has happened in this area? Management has become defensive. It is no longer looking for the expanded empires, expanded opportunities and the area in which to invest more money to embrace more employment of both human and material resources. 
I turn now to labour. The pattern of employment in Australia has changed markedly from the primary to the secondary and now to the tertiary areas. This is not good in the overall context of Australia in the 1 980s. We cannot support the continuing burgeoning numbers of people who are going into the service industries. Unless we can come to some grips with that expansion we will be not be able to live on the principle of taking in each other's washing. Domestic markets in Australia are now recognised as having limited growth. The domestic market is not big enough to develop new products or for a new company to expand into a world-wide organisation because to do that means to export. 
Here we come to the very real crunch as I see some of the problems. We are now pursuing a foreign policy which embraces a close association with the ASEAN countries and encouragement to the Third World. All these people wish trade opportunities within Australia and they will be pressing in their foreign affairs debates and their foreign associations to endeavour to get a greater access to the Austraiian market for their labour intensive goods. Because of this the 1980s will be bound to be a period in which our export markets will even more diminish or be more refined to particular capital intensive goods. Capital, in the period, has to become more particular. Inflation has had a dramatic effect on its movement and its investment. Indeed, in the 1970s most of the capital investment has retired from manufacturing industry. Approximately 45 per cent of all moneys invested in Australia in the manufacturing industry is foreign. In the 1960s roughly 44 per cent of that investment, or approaching one-half, was direct foreign investment. In 1975-76 that amount was a negativeminus 2 per cent. So honourable members can see that there has been a real flight of capital out of manufacturing industries in Australia. What developments have taken place there have been at the expense of the labour component in manufacturing. Most money spent has been to improve capital investment at the expense of direct labour employment. If this is to continue, the impact on employment opportunities in the 1 980s will be very great indeed. 
I should like to look at some of the needs of industry today. I am convinced that it is no good looking for foreign investment and for a revival in Australia unless industry in Australia has a firm footing on which to base its expectations. Naturally this can come only from consumer demand and companies must make a value judgment as to how much they can expect and what pattern will follow in the ensuing three years. But industry needs a light on the hill. It needs to know for its future planning what are the projected tariff policies of this Government and any future government. It is a shock to anyone who operates a business to find out, as in 1973, that there is a general overall 25 per cent reduction in tariffs and then to find out, as in 1975-76, that tariff protection is back in. Any investment pattern that is based on those sorts of movements will be most hesitant. Who blames companies for being hesitant? One cannot possibly go into a major capital development unless one has confidence that the project or area in which one plans to operate will be consistent for a period of five to seven years at least. Because of this I hope that both the Government and the Opposition can come to some common approach to tariffs in Australia because it is vital that for the next 10 years at least we come to a common accord on this issue. 
I think we have more committees here than we know what to do with. I turn now to the area of export. One cannot engage in an area of foreign policy with heavy emphasis on the ASEAN agreement, Asian countries and the Third World, without expecting those countries to require access to our markets. When we consider our policy towards the manufacturing industries in Australia- as to their export potential and as to the areas in which they should be encouraged- these aspects should be taken into consideration. I believe it is inevitable that our relations with these countries will force us to accept these facts. Therefore the 1980s will need to see the export industries in Australia more concentrated and specialised and certainly not will-nilly as we have seen in the past. What limited export areas we have for industrial goods are in the Pacific Basin and in this area we should be able to defend our markets. But what is an export incentive to an Australian industry rapidly becomes dumping in another country. Only too frequently we hear here of our manufacturers complaining of dumping procedures in Australia by overseas companies. That is a legitimate reason for complaint but we cannot expect the export incentives that we offer to be treated lightly by some of the competing countries. 
I turn now to taxation policy. We have all heard a great deal about personal taxation. But it is in the area of corporate taxation that we need to look at some of the benefits that can accrue, and have been accrued, both by foreign and domestic companies. We will need to set out for the 1980s what we expect of companies. I hope that the whole of the tax approach to this area might be changed. I hope later to make a small mention of this. It is important for manufacturing industries to know what the taxation position will be if only in relation to their depreciation, to the amounts of money that can be spent in various areas. It is in the area of depreciation or capital write downs that there can be the greatest benefit towards the development of manufacturing and export industry of real long term value to 
Australia. If the benefit is used in the short term it will be wasted. 
The balance of payments area will become utterly critical to Australia in the next two yearsindeed even sooner. Because of this, manufacturing industries will need to be looked at. We have run huge deficits on balance of payments in Australia over the years. I think that since the Second World War I can recall roughly only three years of surplus of balance of payments. I do not believe that we can afford to run these huge deficits indefinitely. No one can alford to run the losses that we have. There will always be short term fluctuations which can always be handled. That is the purpose of the International Monetary Fund. But in the longer term- into the 1980s- the role of the manufacturing industry and its impact on the balance of payments is all important. When we go to the manufacturers and say what we believe the policies should be, these should take into consideration what our alternatives are in relation to imports, exports and import substitution in Australia. We will need to look very closely at what can be. done in relation to the impact of the manufacturing industry on the balance of payments. 
I also think it is absolutely vital that the question of currencies and balance of payments be looked at. Until we face the fact that it is high time we had a forward cover market for capital movements I cannot see how we can honestly expect major capital development works to take place in Australia at the speed which we would like. We have the resources and the potential here but what company would commit its currencies in Australia until such time as there is some surety as to what it is moving into and what it can insure against? At the present time one can get forward cover on trade contracts but one cannot get forward cover on capital movements. I appreciate that even to mention these matters to the Department of the Treasury incurs wrath under the broad heading of 'speculation'. One might say: 'What is wrong with speculation?' It is high time we recognised people who move currencies into investment in Australia do so with very considerable emphasis on the question of the value of the currency of the nation to which they are moving that capital. Until we recognise the speculative nature of such action we will not really come to grips with it. The value of currency can be isolated purely by putting it to one side and managing a float of the exchange rate. That can be done in the short term but it cannot be done over a 10-year period if one wants to develop a nation which is sustaining in its own right. 
I turn now to the impact that will have on Australia. I believe that because of this silent revolution in the use of Australian resources the 1 980s will see a very big change in the demand for labour. At the present time, our educational institutions are not turning out the product that will be required. Until such time as the nation accepts that we are turning out an unemployable product for the 1980s we are only doing ourselves a lot of harm. Not enough emphasis in the educational field is being directed towards the ultimate goal. The approach to employment will have to change. I think that in the past- certainly in my days at university- it was not very difficult to obtain a job. Indeed, there was a number of choices. Representatives of perhaps five, six or a dozen companies would be running around saying: 'Please come and join us'. The products of education that we will turn out in the 1980s will have to be far more self-reliant. They will need to be people who will go through technical training rather than academic training. They will need to be people who will approach life with a selfreliance that I do not think we have known. A lot of people, certainly in Australia, have gone from one activity to another because the opportunities fell into their hands. In the 1980s, opportunities will have to be sought  out  with far greater determination than previously. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was talking about the different patterns of usage of resources in Australia in the last decade. I shall conclude on the point that the greatest growth industry in Australia in the last decade has been tax evasion. I hope very strongly that the Government will give careful consideration to this matter in the forthcoming Budget. I am aware that in the last Budget it was stated that a number of loopholes would be closed. I have never known so much effort being put into evasion and avoidance as is occurring today. A whole subculture is devoting itself to eliminating or evading its duties to the Australian nation in terms of tax payment. It is led, in the main, by lawyers. I hope that something constructive will be done to overcome this problem. 
Almost the majority of provisions of the existing Income Tax Assessment Act are amendments to close loopholes in the original Act. After nearly 40 years under the current Act, this might well be a suitable time to rewrite it and to make it a document that can be understood by the layman. In very simplistic terms the best way to approach this task it to look at the question of deductibility- not to add to deductibility but to work towards the elimination of it. By doing this, most of the avenues for avoidance would be closed automatically. If one cast the net over the thousands of millions of dollars that are lost through these avoidance schemes, the general level of tax payable, in Australia would come down not as a result of the reforms that were introduced on 1 February this year but in significant steps. No one would be paying more than 50c in the dollar if the present evaders were stopped. I support the Address-in-Reply and I look forward to the Government's economic proposals. 
-The Minister for Defence announced to the House in October 1976 that he would introduce legislation to establish a Defence Force Academy. What progress has been made in this matter? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It refers to a newspaper report this morning about refugees. Can the Prime Minister advise the House whether any request has been made to the Government to allow more refugees from South East Asia to be accepted here? 
It is with pleasure that I support the Appropriation Bills. I am surprised that when the economy has been performing relatively well of recent times the Opposition should move such an amendment. April has been a significantly better time for the economy than most of us would have forecast. The consumer price index for March at 1.3 per cent was a remarkable achievement. One looks at the consequences of that and at the rate of growth of money supply, which is now down to 6 per cent moving up to 8 per cent with the improvement in the foreign exchange. For the first time for many years both the inflation rate and the money supply rate have moved under 10 per cent, which in itself is a great achievement. If the Government maintains its stance it points to a vastly improved economy in the latter part of 1978 and into 1979. 1 can say only that I am delighted to see some of the total aggregates in the Australian economy coming together as with this we can have some hope that the future is going to be much better. 
I do not suggest for a minute that we have done particularly well in the economic terms over a two-year period. Things have gone very slowly. However, for the first time the American dollar has stopped falling. Our currency is coming into a better shape and there is support for it. Further, there is now money coming into the capital account. But this should not detract us from some of the problems that still confront us. Those have to be seen in terms of our balance of payments position and the continued speculation against the Australian dollar. I would hope, when one looks at the possibilities of falling inflation and a reasonable development of money supply, that in the latter part of 1 978 one will see an improvement in the economy; that the use of capacity in the economy will move up and as a consequence productivity and profitability will be infinitely better. Unfortunately, I do not see a great improvement in that period in the levels of employment, because in the first 10- points improvement it is more or less bound to be an improvement in productivity and therefore expressed in profitability. 
I move now to the composition of the 1 978-79 Budget. I believe this to be critical to the performance of the Australian economy in the coming 12 months. Most newspaper writers have referred to the possible deficit this year approaching the $3 billion mark. This is a reasonably high figure and I hope that when we move to construct the coming Budget the deficit will not exceed that figure. Indeed, one would hope that there would be some restraint on that. To achieve this there will need to be quite a dramatic term of discipline upon government spending. We must look at the priorities of spending, at the areas in which the greatest return can be had in the Australian economy for the dollar spent in terms of the greatest dollar movement or multiplier that can be achieved. I hope that when we set out our priorities in the coming few months for the 1978-79 Budget we look at some restraint in government spending. 
It is clearly time that the area of health, was looked at. I do not support the idea that we should go along with a ballooning expenditure in this area. No nation can support some of the welfare schemes that have been put forward. A drift into those areas is totally destroying to any growth economy. We must have a growth economy if we are to see higher levels of employment and personal satisfaction in this nation. We must look also at the question of education in the framing of the Budget. I hope that in this area we shall see some real determination to get value for money. I hope that we will look at the reintroduction of tertiary education fees. For far too long the idea of having second degrees for free is, in my view, the greatest bludge of all time. In times of uneasy employment who would go outside the ivory tower and try his hand when one can stay there and have it paid for by the Government? I hope that some degree of responsibility would come into that area. 
The Government should look also at the question of social welfare payments. I have the greatest sympathy for people who, through no fault of their own, are thrown into unemployment. The Government, indeed the nation, has a responsibility. We should approach this matter with a very genuine, humane approach. However, I see no reason for some of the extravagances in this area. I am amazed that indexation has been applied so liberally to a number of benefits. Again we should look at this question when the framing of the Budget takes place. 
While I said that I would see an absolute maximum of $3 billion deficit, I hope that some priority shifts would allow some avenue of capital works development in the coming year. This in itself would do a lot towards giving a certain degree of encouragement in the coming financial year. One can see from the Government accounts that are available today some of the strains that are undoubtedly inherent in the management of the economy. When one looks at the size of the deficit, which amounts to $4,522m at the end of April, one can see the strains that must be placed around the money market and on the financial community in having to meet that sort of deficit in Australia. No community can go on funding those sorts of deficits without reflecting some strain. 
Tonight I want to spend a few moments discussing the question of how the Australian Government deficit can best be funded and what innovations can be introduced into this field. It is vitally important in Australia, not only in terms of Government management but also in terms of commercial usage, that we have a better understanding of what goes on and how things can be improved. Firstly, I shall deal briefly with the Government side, both overseas and domestic. In respect of overseas raisings, of which we have been making extensive use in recent times, I press the Treasurer and the Government to ensure in our approaches to overseas raisings that an Australian firm is included in the management syndicates of all loans raised. That might mean nothing to a lot of people. May 1 just tell one story of what happened in Canada in respect of extensive overseas borrowings for the national development. That nation insisted that in the management syndicates of overseas borrowings a Canadian firm was included. The firm was not specified other than that it was to be a Canadian firm. By that means Canada developed in that nation the seeds of a reasonably strong capital market. To date Australia has not insisted on this and I would hope that in the future we do something about it. We will never learn the techniques used in capital markets until we insist on this. One may say: Who will buy that? I can assure the House that the Government underwriters in New York, Morgan Stanley, will go along with it. They will not like it but they will go along with it as they recognise the merit of it; they are pragmatists. It is high time that the Australian Treasury and the Reserve Bank insisted on it. 
I turn now to the domestic market. In the coming year if we are to fund a deficit that 1 would hope would be a maximum of $3 billion- I would hope something lower- it is still quite a sizeable task to sell bonds of the order of $ 1,500m plus. What can we do to improve on it? Frankly, the Reserve Bank has done a remarkable job not only recently but over a number of years in keeping the monetary policy straight when the fiscal policy has gone remarkably wrong, and I refer here to the time of the Whitlam Government. I hope that the expertise of the Reserve Bank will be expanded and used. There is no point in going out and saying that we do not know yet what is the deficit. This is what we must be pondering in regard to the May issue because there has been no sign of the level at which we might pitch the rates in May, and this is critical to the interest structure. 
We must encourage the Bank to use its expertise not only in terms of market operating but also to get into the market to see what can be done in other areas, for example, in regard to Treasury notes. What institution in the world can one go to, bang a cheque on the counter and come home with a commodity at a set price? These should be put out to tender for specific amounts and the price set according to market supply and demand. If we attempt to set both quantity and price we surely will misread the economy. There is no way for people who sometimes insulate themselves from the real market place, as can be done in Canberra, to understand what is going on. This applies to areas other than the Treasury note area wherein significant amounts are held. The Government accounts statement shows that at the end of April Treasury note holdings were of the order of $2,400m which is remarkably high. I did not think they would have been as high as that. 
I turn now to the question of Commonwealth bonds. I have never understood why Commonwealth bonds are put out at specific interest rates for any quantity going. It is time that we used the market forces to predetermine what interest rates would be borne by the market place. Today there is undoubtedly an excess of money over supply. I have no doubt that if the Commonwealth put out its paper at tender, interest rates could be allowed to come down gradually and in a more orderly fashion than they are at present. I commend to the Reserve Bank the idea of a forward market on capital account. Until such time as we get a forward market on capital account we have no chance of using short-term overseas money to get the interest rate in Australia into a reasonably competitive position. If we continue the current situation where we can get a forward market only on a trading account we will never get the movers, the owners and the operators in the short-term market with considerable amounts of money applying themselves to the question of investing in Australian Government securities because the risk would be too great. Losses on exchange are non-tax deductible; interest on investment is taxable income. Therefore, there is a non-deductible risk set against a profitable income so clearly the investor would never be enticed into that market. 
I refer now to the capital market itself. A general inquiry into the Australian capital market is long overdue, whether that inquiry is by way of royal commission or whatever we call it. Through such an inquiry we would see something of the operation of the entire banking system and investment structure in Australia. I deal firstly with the banking system. For years it has been a very protected area. Competitiveness has been relative and certainly restricted. The banks through their stodginess have allowed to develop fringe institutions which really have not had the expertise in the first place but which had the nous to go out and buy the expertise from some of the existing institutions. I would hope that such an inquiry would look at the role of the commercial banks and at the role of their currency reserve which has been kept in a tax free, secretive area. It should look also at how this system is going. It is a great balancer. For a long time the commercial banks have hidden a number of things in this area. 
Let us look now at the role of the statutory deposits, one of the management devices used by the Reserve Bank in the money market. I do not think it is a very good device. Then there is the role of the LGS, the liquid reserves. If these could be used more appropriately the whole of the capital market would do a lot better. It strikes me that they should be used as part of the general capital market rather than be locked up in the Reserve Bank. If we encourage the banks to go into the market using the LGS as one of the statutory reserves that in itself would make it a far more viable proposition. Surely this is what we must look at; the setting up of a capital market which is viable and strong enough to move in, because then we would not have institutions, governments, banks and insurance companies saying: 'We get locked into your securities and they are a poor investment '. We would be able to turn around and say: 'It is not the poor investment, it is the darned poor management that goes into the investment of these funds'. I suggest not only in terms of the use of government money but also in terms of the use of private money that this would be a marked improvement on the current situation. 
We need to look also at the interbank and intra bank transactions. I would like to know more about the movement of funds, and particularly of securities, between the savings banks and the commercial banks and the relationship of their deposit with the Reserve Bank. This is a technical area but they will never admit it. I will bet that they are moving securities- long dated securities- from the savings banks to the commercial banks to overcome some of their problems. The thirty-twenty rule applying to insurance companies needs to be looked at too. It has some advantages in the restrained and restricted market we have in Australia and if it is shown to be of benefit probably it should be kept but, on the other hand, if we can move as a result to expand the market in which people are prepared to trade it might well be that the market forces which apply to Commonwealth securities should be allowed to flow on into the thirtytwenty rule and to the semi-government institutions and those funds. 
Insurance companies should be encouraged to form a mortgage market which would be of benefit to the housing industry. It is high time that these companies, which have significant funds available- this morning's  Financial Review  contained a brief sketch of the financial position of the Australian Mutual Provident Society- moved into this area. Their investment in housing is remarkably small. They might claim that they do not have the expertise to deal in housing but I expect that they would have the expertise to deal in mortgages because if a suitable mortgage market were established many hundreds of millions of dollars could be mobilised in this area. I assume that a far greater effort could be made to get this market moving. 
I move on to areas outside banks and insurance companies in which there is a multiplicity of operators. There is the official money market. There are restricted dealers- nine of them- whose holding varies from $800m to $ 1,400m which it reached during the halcyon days when the Government was forecasting interest rate falls. I totally deplore the Government going around forecasting interest rate movements. It is an incredible position. The operators in this field who in the following 12 months came up with remarkable profits had only the Government to thank. The Government cannot go around telling people that interest rates will fall by 2 per cent and not expect significant and spectacular investment and windfall profits to result. It is a totally ludicrous approach. A significant contributor in the area of official securities is the unofficial market; the merchant banks, the overseas representative offices of the overseas banks, the brokers and the small time bill dealers. Many millions of dollars are tied up in these areas and that money is not totally utilised within the community. The people who operate in this field take up their position within a market not because they have a direct commercial use for that money but because they have an inherent desire to guarantee their position. That applies particularly to the commercial banks in Australia. 
Another side operation is the building societies which have very significant deposits in Australia. They have been somewhat under a cloud. As the Government moves to insure deposits, surely they will become a very significant instrument in the banking area. When it comes to that stage they are far more than building societies; they are quasi banks. How can they pay one rate of interest on a guaranteed deposit vis a vis that paid by a savings bank at a markedly lower rate of interest and at a discriminating rate which cannot last? So there must be some form of adjustment in that particular area. This brings us to the question of what savings banks can do with their moneys and what cash reserves or LGS ratios can be imposed onto building societies. Also in this general area must be included the role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation which made a very sad and sorry collection of investments and which had very sad and sorry borrowing policies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows a series of questions asked last week. Can he inform the House of the result of the inquiry into the purchase of land on the Gold Coast by the Australian Postal Commission? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) Is there a policy of rationalisation of posting facilities by Australia Post. 
On what basis are decisions to close post boxes and post offices taken. 
What weight is placed on the needs of the elderly and the infirm in reaching these decisions. 
How many (a) post boxes, (b) official post offices and (c) unofficial post offices have been removed or re-sited by Australia Post in (i) the Electoral Division of Ryan and (ii) the Brisbane Statistical Division. 
What procedures are available to members of the public to appeal against Australia Post decisions in these matters. 
-I ask the Treasurer whether he is satisfied with the workings of the Australian capital market. Is he satisfied with the mechanism of the Australian Government's raising within that market? Is he satisfied that we are using adequately the rising levels of domestic savings in Australia? If not, would he advocate a review of the workings of the Australian capital market? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the importance of overseas investment to Australia and the wide movement of exchange rates today, will the Government consider the introduction of forward cover on capital movements or does the Minister subscribe to a view common in Treasury circles that such an action would only add to speculation? 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of reports from Japan that negotiations between Australian iron ore producers and Japanese steel mills have been concluded? If so, can he inform the House as to the outcome? 
I welcome the initiative of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in bringing forward this motion this morning. I must say that I was disappointed in his approach to it. I have always thought that the honourable member had a pretty good grasp of matters in the financial world and economics, but I am sorry he spent so long at the beginning of his speech haranguing the various failures in the financial world and really missing the point of some of the items that are put forward in his motion. 
Firstly, the matter of inquiry into the capital market certainly is well overdue. It is a matter I referred to in a speech I made in this House on 20 September 1977 in which I outlined a series of reforms that could be implemented. Indeed, one or two of them have been implemented by the Reserve Bank of Australia in its approach to the sale of Treasury notes and bonds in recent weeks. I hope that the Committee that is set up will go into other matters covering a wide area. In the 1980s and into the 1990s Australia faces a critical shortage of capital. Today we are not making the best use of the capital that we have at our disposal. There are faults in the mechanism of the capital market. I hope that this particular inquiry will look at these faults and make recommendations. 
One of the aspects of the motion this morning is the composition or membership of the committee of inquiry. The people concerned are certainly men of the market who are experienced and who have lived and worked the industry all their lives. I know that we can pin certain identifications to that and possibly expect certain answers. In these days with a highly sophisticated capital market and a need for training to understand what is going on, there is really not the time for a committee like this to have members around who have to be trained or to be educated with a general knowledge of what goes on in the capital market. Much reference has been made to a former Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  who really made his public debut in terms of the inquiry of 1937. If we read some comments made by a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia who was on the secretariat at that time, we will find his reference to the fact that during the course of that commission,  Mr Chifley  really became educated in banking. This was reflected in the actions of  Mr Chifley  in 1945. 1 think that is borne out today in terms of who should be on the committee. I would defend the membership of the committee. There is no doubt that if we all sat down and picked the membership we would come up with one or two common names but at the end of the list we would have a few different names. There is no doubt about that. I would pick some names which are different from those which are on the present list. Nevertheless, on balance, I support the membership. Talking in purely political terms one would ask who would represent the trade unions and some of the outside organisations. I do not know of anyone in that area who speaks with knowledge about the banking system or the capital system in Australia. Most of the comments I hear are directed toward its destruction or its nationalisation. I make no bones about the fact that I defend the system as it is with the regulations that are required within banking to ensure fair play. 
As an example of this the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  a person who is held to be an expert in these areas by the Labor Party, made some comments on a Brisbane television program last night. What he said demonstrates the level of his competence in relation to financial matters. He claimed that Bankcard is a monopoly. If his claim is correct, what about such things as cash payments and orders. There are any number of other types of credit cards in operation in Australia. He then went on to say that the revenue from the Bankcard system in Australia was something of the order of $70m a year, that the cost of setting it up was $20m and that therefore it is far too profitable. There is a big difference between revenue and net profit. There is a hell of a difference between capital investment and the return from that investment. No one from the Opposition or from the trade union movement would recommend himself to me as being suitable for an alternative appointment to this Committee if there is to be such a loose use of facts in the area to which I have just referred. 
A further matter raised this morning concerned the political overtones in the establishment of the inquiry. I have found reference to that in only one article in a newspaper, namely, the  Australian Financial Review  of 21 January 1979. In some respects those sorts of comments are best left out of terms of reference. Nevertheless it is a fact of life that the system operating in Australia is a private enterprise one. People ought to be under no misapprehension as to what the public of Australia want. The inquiry would be mindful of this. The mentioning of it would be unduly sensitively received not by the community as a whole but only by those who hold a doctrinaire commitment to socialism or something of that nature. I reject that approach. 
The second part of the motion moved this morning deals with social welfare implications and housing. I think it demonstrates that the proposer of the motion misunderstands the question when he brings forward social welfare aspects of a capital market inquiry. As I see it, social welfare aspects and housing are political questions which must be determined by the political parties and by the Government of the day. Political parties rather than a particular section of the capital market will determine their own views on these matters. If the capital market is allowed to meet the supply and demand, if it is allowed to move its interest rates in accordance with that supply and demand, if it were to use a free interest approach, it would probably have more money available for housing. In other words, housing finance would probably attract a higher rate of interest and there would be a fairly marked degree of success in raising whatever money was needed. If one wants to interfere politically- I support the principle of housing aid in Australia, and I think that these things should be looked at- one should do so by subsidising interest rates or by making grants to housing. Those are political decisions; they are not aspects of an inquiry into the capital market. They are two completely distinct propositions. 
In the remaining time available to me I would like to look at some of the problems that face the Australian capital market at the moment. We have seen signs of a capital shortage in Australia in the last 10 years. As a result of inflation we have seen a build-up in the capital costs of development. These days the sheer size and magnitude of major mining or energy development presents cost difficulties. In recent times, with the advent of the Crawford report, we have seen an emphasis thrown back on to the manufacturing industry. The need for modernisation, new technology and new plant is involved in this area. We have to look around and see what we can do to improve the use and the husbanding of funds in Australia. 
In recent times Australian household savings have been on the increase. I shall refer to some figures which I have before me. In 1960, 5 per cent of the gross domestic product represented household savings. By 1976 this had risen to 10 per cent. It is a question of how we get into that area to mobilise those funds for appropriate investment. Because of higher levels of government spending in recent times I think that in the 1 980s we will be getting to a position where there will be competition between the Government and corporations for funds. As can be seen from another table which I have before me, in 1960 the use of funds by government represented 33 per cent of all capital expenditure and the use of funds by corporations represented 48 per cent. The use of funds by private households represented 19 per cent. In 1976 the Government's share had risen to 36 per cent; the corporations' share had fallen to 42 per cent; and share of households had risen to 22 per cent. That indicates to me that in the 1 980s the position of the corporations will reverse and their share of the capital expenditure is likely to rise quite markedly. When this occurs, how are we to ensure that the least distortion is caused in the market? What improvements can we see? 
I have always believed in the adage of the share market, namely, that a bit of sunlight is the best disinfectant. If we adopt that approach in relation to companies we should be able to look at some of the remedies that might be viewed by the Committee. 
I would like to think that they should look at the solvency regulations, as well as the matter of solvency in relation to a number of institutions in Australia. I refer particularly to the building society movement. In the last ten years activities in the building society movement have left a lot to be desired. I hope that the Committee will look into the background of the accounting and auditing methods in order to test solvency and to test the reliability of management within the building society movement. If a lender of last resort system is to be guaranteed, the implications for the rest of the banking system of Australia are enormous. I hope that the inquiry will look at this area to see what can best be done. If building societies are to receive guarantees in the same way as banks do then the discrepancy in interest rates between savings banks and building societies cannot be sustained. The effect that that would have on the funds available for building would be enormous, not to mention the contribution to government and semi-government borrowing. 
I turn to the matter of financial information. I have never been really impressed by the disclosures of some of the corporations and institutions in Australia, such as life assurance companies and banks. I can understand their sensitivity but as a whole they are doing themselves a disservice by not revealing the true position. I hope that something will be done to upgrade the level of reporting from the financial institutions. Another matter which might be looked at is the fact that there is no system of ratings in corporate, semigovernment or institutional borrowings. There is no service such as 'Standard' and 'Poor' in Australia. In America that service does an enormous amount to rate the bonds and, as a consequence, to make them more saleable. In Australia one is left very much on one's own to check out the trustee, the company and the management. One does not necessarily take the word of the underwriter or the promoter. Unfortunately this came out very clearly in the Associated Securities Limited debacle. 
I come now to regulations. There are a myriad of regulations within the market place. The Government has the ability to control interest rates and to put pressure on quantitive lending by the banks through the Reserve Bank. It has the right to make sure that reserves are held with the Reserve Bank and that there are adequate statutory reserve deposits and liquid government securities ratios which bring a fairly tight control on liquidity. It exercises exchange control. It has strong barriers to entry to Australia in various forms. This applies particularly to outside banking and to currency movements. Then we have what one could call the privilege circuit- the participants in the 30-20 area. I hope that the Committee of Inquiry will look deeply into this matter because of its implications not only for government borrowings but also for semi-government borrowings. 
In Australia in the last two or three years we have seen an enormous growth in the use of semi-government borrowings. In the last two years the amount of money borrowed by local government and instrumentalities is larger than the debt borrowed by the Federal Government. There is still something of the order of $300m to be raised by semi-government and other instrumentalities before 30 June in order to complete the program. There is so much scrip around that there is a very real danger that this whole area of financing will come under some pressure in the next 12 to 18 months. I think that unless the Government looks at this matter we will find that it will not be able to sustain the interest rates in that area or support the various councils and projects operating with funds from that source. 
Another matter I wish to raise is the question of stamp duty legislation. In Australia we have a totally inadequate debt security or mortgage market. This is brought about by the level of stamp duty in the various States. If we were to enable the transfer and marketability of mortgage securities in Australia we would be able to mobilise so much more of the domestic funds. These funds would move into the areas of greater creativity than the savings bank accounts which are so enormous today. There are also restrictions on capital exchange in Australia. The use of forward markets, which is common throughout the Western world, is frowned upon in Australia. We seem to have a complete phobia sometimes about the thought of free market movement. 
In the last few moments that I have to speak, I would like to make a few references to taxation. The implications of tax on the capital structure of Australia are quite enormous. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. It follows that asked by the honourable member for Barton. Is the Treasurer aware of the problems that local government authorities are having in meeting their loan quotas for the current year? Is he aware of the size of the debt that local government and semigovernment authorities have been building up over the last few years and their programs for the coming year? Has he any suggestion to make to them as to the way in which these vast amounts can be met for the coming year? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. A successful offer by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd to the Bank of Adelaide will represent a contraction in the banking industry competitiveness in Australia. Because of this, I ask the Treasurer to consider two points. Firstly, will he consider referring the question of the relationship between banks and finance companies to the Campbell Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System? Secondly, will he consider the proposition that the banking licence of the Bank of Adelaide- I know that licences normally are surrendered when a takeover occurs- should be made available to another group or consortium in Australia for the formation of another bank? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. With the failure to date to settle the site of the National Companies and Securities Commission, will the Minister give consideration to an alternative site? 
Whilst Hobart and Brisbane have particular charm it might be appropriate to apply the 1901 solution to the SydneyMelbourne conflict. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Are Australian tobacco companies involved in the practice of dumping high tar content cigarettes in underdeveloped countries; if so, (a) is Queensland tobacco being used for this purpose and (b) does the Federal Government have the power to prevent this activity. 
If no power exists, what other preventative measures can be taken. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to reports that Pakistan is developing a nuclear arms potential. Are these reports correct? If so, what does the Government intend to do to check the growth of nuclear arms on the Indian sub-continent? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Do a considerable number of persons in the community receive specialist medical treatment for various chronic illnesses. 
Are these persons required to obtain a new note of referral from a general practitioner every 1 2 months. 
If so, is the patient treated as a new patient and charged a much higher fee when attending the first specialist consultation after the general practitioner's referral. 
What action will he take to alleviate the necessity of patients having to make these visits to general practitioners for referrals. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does the Government have any evidence of the extent of the circulation of the letter of  Mr Justice  Staples? 
I congratulate the Government on bringing forward this legislation at this time. It is some years since we first moved in this direction to bring about a national companies and securities commission. I am sure the business community as a whole would welcome the introduction of this legislation which establishes the National Companies and Securities Commission. Contrary to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said, I believe that the way in which the Government has gone about it in terms of seeking a cooperative approach with the States is the correct one. If one embarks on a course in an area such as this which is shrouded with a very grave legal doubt one is certainly courting disaster in establishing a fairly complex commission which will have an enormous impact on the whole of the business community throughout Australia. That is why I commend the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  the State Ministers and officials who spent months getting this package together. It would have been difficult because there is no doubt that the various interests of the States are somewhat contrary to a uniform companies commission approach from a national standpoint. We only have to look at the history to see that that is the position. 
This legislation will enable the establishment of the Commission. It will allow for the appointment of the commissioners and it will establish the basis of what is the beginning of quite a long run. Numerous Bills will follow this legislation to enable the full-scale establishment of a Companies and Securities Commission Act. This legislation is purely, in my view, a preliminary but a most important step in getting the Commission on the road. I think it is fair to say that no number of regulations will ever stop company crashes or attempts to manipulate share prices or balance sheets. No regulations in the world will ever stop that. It is a question of human nature. 
In entering the area of regulation the Government raises the level of sophistication as is now practiced in the United States under the operations of the Securities Commission there. One ought to look at the question of how that works in comparison with the city code in the United Kingdom and see which is the most effective in terms of understanding what goes on in the market place. I was surprised that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition engaged midway through his speech in a general description of sharks and adopted a general anti-business approach because he should understand that the business world is a risk taking centre. Risks will be taken because people are looking for rewards, otherwise there is no point in being in it. They are there to look after their interests and it is our job to ensure that the public interest is protected against what are sometimes seen to be manipulative activities. 
Let me deal with the background of securities and companies commissions, especially in the Companies Act area. At the moment all States have the powers in the companies area. Some State Acts vary markedly. 
Action has been taken in some States such as that which has been referred to in the Ansett case and that in Queensland under the regulations of the Companies Act to prevent takeovers of other companies within Australia. I have said before that I do not believe such actions are in the best national interest. I certainly hope that with the establishment of this Commission we are moving towards a concerted and united approach to the corporate sector. 
I have some reservations whether this legislation will be entirely successful. But I can hope that the workings of the Commission and the personalities of the members of the Commission will be such that they will clearly demonstrate their ability, their far-sightedness and their integrity to be able to administer the legislation in such a way that the relative State parochialisms will fall by the wayside. Let me refer to the securities area because it is in this area that I think most of the heartburn came about in the late 1960s and early 1970s as a result of the excesses of share market boom at that time and the establishment of a Senate committee of inquiry into it. The findings of that committee and what flowed from that area, in my view, were largely responsible for the public demand for a national securities commission. The excesses in that area, particularly in the area of insider trading, I think are well known. But I do not believe even now that in the proposed legislation that there will be a real ability to look at these things from behind until such time as we know the character and personnel of the people who will be on the Commission itself, because in that alone rests the whole future of the Commission. 
Unless we get in the appointment of commissioners three men who are practical peoplenot lawyers who specialise in a particular niche of law- people who have practiced in this area, people who have known the game not only in terms of the market but also in terms of accounting, legal practice and with overall experience, we will fail. In the establishment of this Commission the people involved must win the confidence of those who operate in that area. I wonder whether the advertisement that I have in my hands which calls for applications to fill the three commissioner positions is offering sufficient to attract the people we want in this area. I cannot stress too emphatically the importance of having the right people at this point of the establishment of the Commission. If they fail the concept without a doubt will fail. 
I briefly refer to the securities industry because the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred, I think, fairly vigorously to some of the excesses that went by. One has to look at the problems of insider trading. Whilst this matter has not come to the fore at this time it is nevertheless one of the great problems in the Australian capital market. I recall an old saying that an ounce of drum is worth a ton of research. Once you understand the meaning of that you will realise that enormous significance is attached to this sort of activity. All I can say is that any commissions of inquiry or any person who attempts to investigate background charges will not have any prospect at all of sorting out the details unless he knows the game, where to look and exactly what the background is. This is the concept to which I referred earlier in relation to the appointment of commissioners. I hope that the people who will be appointed to the Commission will have a very good knowledge not only of insider trading but also in terms of share market rigging, rigging prices, how to hold markets, takeovers and the other aspects of areas that can be manipulated against the national will. Those things are very hard to trace and will take a lot more than is currently available in the corporate areas of the State commissions. 
I am appalled at the attempts of some of the State commissions to find out what went on in various transactions. A very old ploy once upon a time was to place orders from another State into the main market to achieve a result. This legislation, of course, will overcome that because once there is a single body one should be able to approach this matter fairly easily and be able to call up books from the various areas to look at them. Most of the companies involved in this sort of activity will probably move off-shore and deal into Australia from overseas. As a consequence, they will be fairly hard to trace. I hope that when this information is being sought only a relatively small number of people will be found to be using their wits against the overall market. The market in Australia is a remarkably strong element and it has an enormous amount to contribute. All those who have been involved in the market would know that if the self-regulatory forces of the stock exchange committees work with this Commission they can make the market a more viable, a more acceptable area in which to deal. They have a credibility problem but I believe this can be overcome if they move towards the acceptance of the Commission in the best possible light. 
What is the future importance of the Commission in this area? I believe that as we move into a higher level of communication, the Australian capital markets and the companies themselves will become more uniform as a consequence of time. Because of this we will find that the various stock exchanges will probably merge into one; we will find that accounting firms in Australia will probably tend to become more national and that, as a consequence, accounting standards will become more of a nationwide standard than a State by State standard as at present. I believe also that the move towards uniformity will help with the investigating process. It will certainly enable people to understand more readily what has gone on than they have done in the past. As they move towards this higher level of uniformity, the Australian capital market will become a far more efficient area and a far better area for everyone to deal in. I hope that people who live in the market will find the enormous benefit of having to deal with only one organisation- not having to register as a company in every State, not having to register every prospectus in every State with the various intricacies that go on from State to State, and not having to arrange and to continue to have a level of contact with commissioners on a State by State basis. 
I am aware- I was one of the first in this area- of the problems in the early stages of being a registered dealer in New South Wales when one is not a resident of that State. I know what had to be proved across the boundary line, to deal in the Sydney market. I know of the different standards of financial backing required in Queensland, as opposed to Sydney, as opposed to Melbourne, as opposed to Perth. I believe that in time under the National Companies and Securities Commission, all these things will become uniform and the community will be much better for it. It will be a far more practical and a far greater community for those uniform approaches. I am sure that as a whole the business community will support this move towards a united approach to the National Companies and Securities Commission in Australia. 
Finally, I just say this: Amongst all the people I have spoken to in the business community, I have not found any person who is against the Government's approach. I have not found anyone who does not regard the Government's actions in this area as anything but drawing credit to itself and to the way in which the matter has been handled by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and by the officials. I certainly hope that we will press on speedily for the establishment of this Commission. I am sure that other honourable members and those interested in this matter will look forward to the other legislation, most not- ably the takeover legislation and the legislation that comes with the National Companies Act, to ensure that in future the Australian business community will be in a far better shape. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth post-graduate scholarships are subject to taxation while postgraduate scholarships awarded by universities and private enterprise are not; if so, what action will be taken to correct this anomaly. 
