I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it the Government's intention to continue support for the Australian Assistance Plan? Is the Minister aware that a large number of well-intentioned people interested in welfare services who have been involved in an honorary capacity for the Australian Assistance Plan are concerned at the absence of any clear guide from the Government as to the future of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the recent statement by Professor Russell Mathews emphasising the need for tax indexation to be fully introduced in the next Budget? Can the Minister explain the apparent divergence between the policy of the Government with regard to tax indexation and the recommendations of Professor Mathews, who chaired the inquiry into inflation and taxation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister prepared to give precise details of where the mooted cuts in Australia's foreign aid programs shall fall? Is the Minister aware of the concern that is being expressed by those Public Service officers who are involved in the administration of such programs at these proposed reductions in aid expenditure? 
Can the Minister for Education confirm whether the plans to establish a regional education office in Armidale have been abandoned? Can the Minister inform the Parliament whether the education office will not now be established because of the failure of the Federal Government to keep its promises on education needs? Will the Minister undertake to carry out an immediate investigation with a view to establishing the office to which I have referred? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In the light of the statement by the Minister on 24 February 1976 to the effect that certain provisions of the Trade Practices Act are in conflict with the Government's economic program, will the Minister explain which of the provisions of the Act are not completely consonant with the Government's current economic objectives? When did the Minister realise that certain provisions fell into this category? Why were these faults not identified by the then Opposition during the passage of the Trade Practices legislation? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of statements made recently on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM  by  Mr Barry  0 'Hagen from the Freedom from Hunger organisation characterising the Government's policy of reducing foreign aid appropriations as 'objectionable and reprehensible'? Will the Minister give an assurance that there will be no future further cuts in the aid program which can only cause further damage to Australia's reputation in the Third World? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I take this opportunity of congratulating you on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. I should also like you to convey to the  President  my congratulations on his elevation to his office. From the remarks that have been made by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, I am sure that you will both fill your positions with credit. I should also like to congratulate other honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches. 
We have now reached a watershed in our nation's history. After 3 years of dynamic reform and unprecedented social change, we have had elected a conservative government with the largest House of Representatives majority in a generation. Yet at the same time there has been no public acceptance of this Government's assaults on the monuments of the Whitlam years. In spite of their decision last December for apparent stability, conformity and tranquillity in government, the people implicitly recognise the value of Labor's programs and will fight to retain them. While we on the Labor side must recognise the significance of the people's vote last December- that social change must be introduced in an orderly fashion within a framework of economic stability and government cohesiveness- the conservatives must recognise also that the vote of last December was not a vote for reaction or a vote for social inequality. This Government, as it now faces the people, has no program for the future. In fact, it is not untrue to say that the Government has no concept of there being any future at all to consider. It has a backward- looking view of the world, marked by an obsession with outmoded ideas and snobbish customs. We have returned to a world of imperial honours and deference to one 's betters. With the narrow view that what is good for the Western District graziers and the Jaycees is necessarily good for Australia, this Government surely will find to its cost that the Australian people emphatically do not share those assumptions. 
In spite of our turbulent history and our electoral ups and downs, the spirit of what is good and decent in Australia, the notions of mateship and a fair go, are still the property of the Australian Labor Party. The event of 1 1 November 1975 proved that if it proved nothing else. Ours is the progressive view of history. We are hopeful for mankind. We believe that man can improve his position and have a better future. We believe that the positive impulse in society is the collective, co-operative spirit of man helping his fellow man. We oppose and completely reject the conservative ideology of the jungle, where dog eats dog and the weak go to the wall. Opening Labor's campaign for the 1969 election, Gough Whitlam put the progressive view of history as well as anyone has done before or since, in my opinion. In this time of confusion about the direction in which this country should move, I would like to refresh the memories of honourable senators by quoting his opening words: 
We of the Labor Party have an enduring commitment to a view about society. It is this: in modern countries, opportunities for all citizens- the opportunity for a complete education, opportunity for dignity in retirement, opportunity for proper medical treatment, opportunity to share in the nation's wealth and resources, opportunity for decent housing, the opportunity for civilised conditions in our cities and towns, opportunity to preserve and promote the natural beauty of the land- can be provided only if governmentsthe community itself acting through its elected representativeswill provide them. Private wealth is insufficient now to provide such opportunities even for the wealthy few. The inequalities in our community now reflect not so much gross disparities in income, but the failure of successive Liberal governments to create opportunities for the overwhelming majority of our people- the lower, modest and middle income families- opportunities which only governments can make. And increasingly in Australia the national government must initiate those opportunities. 
That view of history and society is still the basic standard by which Australians view their governments. It does not matter how an election results; the Australian people have a consistent view that government is a creative force designed to serve their interests. They do not want a government that curtails services. Historically, the Australian people want those services increased and they want them improved. The Fraser Government would do well to examine its conscience and its performance to date and judge how well it stands up against that philosophy. If it believes that the decision of last December was a decision to leave the future of this country in the hands of an unbridled private sector, the Government will be turning its back on history to its own ultimate cost. 
The weakness of the Government's approach to political reality is in evidence throughout its programs, but nowhere is it more apparent than in those areas on which I want to comment this evening, namely, foreign policy, industrial relations and electoral reform. One of the first acts of major significance taken by this Government when it achieved office was to re-orient completely Australia's foreign policy with regard to the Indian Ocean. By its hasty and ill conceived decision to support an escalation of the arms build-up in the region, by encouraging the United States Government to increase its military presence on the island of Diego Garcia and then proceeding to offer the United States naval access to Cockburn Sound for its nuclear armed and nuclear powered vessels, the Government at almost a single stroke has brought to an end the rational and productive foreign policy of the previous Labor Government. Labor initiatives between 1972 and 1975, which had resulted in a relationship of trust and confidence between Australia and other littoral states of the Indian Ocean, have been replaced by a policy which seeks to ignore, indeed more accurately to reverse, the passage of time in order to return to the futile era of confrontation between the major powers- the United States and the Soviet Union. In this conservative scenario Australia has only one function to fulfil, that of a loyal, obedient, unthinking minor partner of the United States, a minor partner failing to identify and hence failing to take advantage of the many available opportunities which require independent initiatives. 
Such a policy as that being pursued by this Government in the Indian Ocean may be described accurately as one of total reliance on and acceptance of decisions taken outside this country. It restricts Australia's ability to manoeuvre and negotiate freely in the international area, so firmly committed are we to American national interests on this question. The salient point of whether a time will emerge when Australia's interests will not coincide, perhaps will even clash, with those of the United States is not even considered. In place of Labor's reasoned approach to the question, which sought strenuously to encourage mutual restraint in military commitment to the region by the United States and the Soviet Union, one now discovers that the present Government has adopted the curious position of both encouraging the United States to increase its arms strength in the region while at the same time asking that the super powers display mutual restraint. Such a glaring inconsistency in our foreign policy might simply appear ludicrous and laughable, were not its ramifications so serious for future Australian diplomatic endeavours in this area, so vital to Australia's security and prosperity. Assuredly the Government by its intrepid mismanagement of our foreign affairs gives every indication of wishing to see Australia recognised in the world at large as it was prior to 1972, as, in the words of  Mr Patrick  White, ' a nation of rustic clowns '. 
This philosophical trait of the conservative parties, of exclusive reliance on but one element of foreign policy consideration, that a great and powerful friend will always stand ready and able both to conduct Australia's international affairs and to assist Australia should a crisis arise was the central guiding aspect of our foreign policy standpoint of generations long past. It stems from a conclusion that Australia is not able to act, nor should she act, independently in international diplomacy. Australian foreign policy, according to this present Government, should simply follow a course dictated by others. This view is not suited to the conduct of our foreign affairs in this decade, where it will have the effect of setting unnecessarily rigid and constricting parameters for our foreign relations, especially with Asia. Nor was such a policy ever wise. Conservative inflexibility in developing foreign policy has previously led Australia into the political fiasco and moral shame of our intervention in Vietnam, to an unrewarding and unnecessary era of hostility towards the People's Republic of China, and caused undue friction in our relations with our other Asian neighbours. Labor ended that, and the merit of Labor's more rational foreign policy attitude was acknowledged publicly by the former United States Ambassador to this country,  Mr Marshall  Green. This is surely the case at present with regard to the issues pertaining to the Asian region where Labor's reasoned approach is attuned to the progressive elements within the United States Congress and the United States Administration and is not, unlike our conservative opponents' policy, the product of an outdated irrelevant ideology. 

 Mr Deputy President, the present Government, whilst unable to undo entirely the achievement in foreign policy of 1972-1975, will also prove unwilling and unable to take Australia further forward in the development of worthwhile relations with Asia. Its attitude reflects past perspectives. Already it has demonstrated much of that supreme indifference towards the concerns and problems of the people of Asia which one would have hoped no longer characterise official Australian attitudes. This is most clearly evidenced by its ill-considered, even reckless, decision to reduce our foreign aid program. 
Lest it be said,  Mr Deputy President,  that my comments on the impact of entrenched conservatism within the Government are relevant only to the conduct of the nation's foreign affairs, it may be readily demonstrated that this philosophical premise is also the guide for its direction of Australian domestic affairs. Already, after only a short space of 2 months in elected office, the 
Government's dismal record in industrial relations begins to rival those of preceding conservative governments. Assurances which were given to the Australian people during the election campaign of November-December 1975 on the future of wage indexation have now been revealed for what they always were- shabby lies. The Australian trade union movement has been further deceived. Having been prepared to accept the word of the responsible Minister, to the effect that legislation which is designed to interfere in matters which are strictly internal concerns of the Labor movement- my colleague,  Senator Donald  Cameron, commented on this aspect this afternoon- did not have a high priority in the Government'.s program and would not be introduced before consultation with union leaders occurred, the union movement now discovers that such ministerial assurances are worthless. 
This intended legislation is to be introduced at the earliest possible opportunity, regardless of the outcome of discussions between Government and trade unions, that is if such discussions were ever intended to take place. Little wonder then that the trade union movement feels obliged to act with extreme caution in dealing with this Government. Indeed, it is a credit to the perseverance of, and the restraint exercised by, the industrial Labor movement in this country that there still exists the opportunity for discussions. Few within the Australian community would blame the union movement if it already regarded the process of talking with the Government as meaningless. As a matter of fact, public positions on industrial relations questions which are adopted by this Government should be interpreted not as a reflection of its true attitude but more as an indication that it intends to do exactly the opposite. 
This state of affairs leads one to doubt the worth of the promise that tax indexation will be introduced in the next Budget. Already there are signs that this promise will not be honoured. It is stated that indexation shall be introduced in return for support for the Government's economic program. However, as Professor Russell Mathews commented recently, to state that the introduction of tax indexation is contingent upon other factors, as the Government has done, is to have the emphasis wrong, seriously wrong. Tax indexation is a pre-requisite for economic recovery. Further, as Andrew Clark wrote in the  National Times  of 16-2 1 February 1976, its own action in the recent wage index hearing:   has left the Government bereft of a wages policy, and with little prospect of developing one in the future. 
Wages policy surely constitutes the cornerstone of any economic program. The Government, of its own volition, is without one. Therefore, precisely what Government economic program remains to be deserving of support? It is certainly not the crude approach of drastically reducing expenditures, with its resultant unemployment and hardship. Only the most deluded disciples of Ayn Rand and the Liberal and National Country Parties would support such draconian measures. Clearly, then, in the area of industrial relations this Government has displayed little capacity and much ineptitude. 
However, there is one approach on which the conservatives believe that they may constantly rely. That is that of confrontation, of provoking the Australian trade union movement into an industrial dispute through the process of creating an intolerable economic situation. The Government now appears henton this destructive course of action, by sabotaging wage indexation and by misleading the trade union movement, by vacillating on the introduction of tax indexation and, finally, by seeking to direct the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission away from its primary function, that of conciliation. 

 Mr Deputy President, these moves illustrate the point which I made earlier, that the Government seeks consciously to revert to a situation which existed under previous coalition administrations when industrial relations in this country were marked by hostility, suspicion and rancour. It is to this bitter industrial past that the Government now desires to return, for, in the simplistic, conservative political analysis, the Government should harass and finally attempt to emasculate the trade union movement of this country in a decisive confrontation. This could mean only that all Australians will suffer. The industrial Labor movement should not be regarded, as this Government apparently views it, as a rival to its authority which must be bested in a display of strength; rather, Australian trade unions should be considered an integral part of our economic community, able and prepared to contribute to the processes by which industrial and social decisions are made. Unions were considered in this light by the former Labor Administration; I believe that it should remain so. As the British political commentator,  Mr Paul  Johnson, wrote on the question of Australian industrial relations: 
The Whitlam years cannot simply be erased. The clock cannot be put back to Menzies-time. 
Finally, with regard to the present unjust and inequitable electoral system which operates in Australia, one finds the Government uninterested in reform, reform which is necessary in order to guarantee the future viability of Australian parliamentary democracy. An electoral system, such as the one which now exists and which is weighted so demonstrably against a major Party, will not be tolerated indefinitely by the Australian community. To be sure, if the Australian people have made one point abundantly clear to governments over the last decade, it is that they wish their opinions to be considered, their aspirations to be acknowledged and their demands to be met. In these circumstances, an electoral system which denies office to the Party that enjoys majority support at the polls, as the Australian electoral system did to the Australian Labor Party in 1954, 1961 and 1969, should undergo significant alteration to end injustices. If the electoral process does not properly reflect the commitments of the voters but rather frustrates them, then it can only serve to bring the entire concept of parliamentary democracy in this country into disrepute. 
However, as I have observed, the Government remains indifferent to the pressing need for electoral reform. If the conservatives' past record of implacable opposition to such reform is any indication, and there is no reason to suggest that it is not, then the Australian people should anticipate a perpetuation of the present system of unfair electoral boundaries, and redistributions based on those boundaries, solely designed to entrench the Liberal-National Country Party coalition in office. Moreover, there exists in a related area an obvious and growing need for legislation to be introduced both to regulate and to provide for the financing of election campaigns. Labor tried to achieve the first of these aims while in government but it was prevented from doing so by a conservative majority in this place. Without doubt, there will be little enthusiasm on the pan of the Government for carrying on with this program the worth of which has already been acknowledged in some measure by the New South Wales State Liberal-National Country Party Government. It becomes even more vital, therefore, to state that reform of the existing electoral machinery, together with other iniquities which mar Australian political democracy, should occupy a higher priority for any administration which is honestly concerned with Australia's future as a democratic country. It is my intention, as well as the intention of my Party, to pursue this course of identifying and then eventually removing those unfair practices and abuses which render our electoral system poorer. In doing so I believe our Party, unlike our opponents, looks to the future not to the past. 
A lot was said during the last election campaign about socialists and socialism. A lot has been said on this subject by honourable senators opposite during my short period of time in the Senate. I consider myself to be a loyal socialist. The Labor Party believes in socialism which is pragmatic, democratic and humane, a socialism which is not a prisoner of any doctrinaire ideology and which is uncompromisingly opposed to any form of totalitarianism. I thank honourable senators for allowing me the privilege of making this speech in silence. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence or to the appropriate Minister. Having regard to the recent disastrous floods which have covered large areas of both Queensland and New South Wales, will the Natural Disasters Organisation now assume responsibility for planning preventive measures to minimise future dislocation of communities in affected areas and damage to property and livestock? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the Minister's reply to my question asked on 3 March 1 976 in which he stated that Australia, under this present Government, had no friends in the Third World, will the Minister explain where Australia's friends are to be found? Are not the members of the Association of South East Asian Nations, all of which constitute part of the Third World, Australia's friends? 
I ask the Minister for Ad  ministrative Services whether the Government will give an assurance that future electoral redistributions will be based on the 10 per cent electoral tolerance which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1974? 
Will the Minister for Education give an undertaking that he will honour an assurance given by the then shadow Minister for Education, presently the Minister for Social Security, to students at the University of New England on 15 September 1975 to the effect that a Liberal-National Country Party government would immediately review the tertiary education assistance scheme with a view to increasing allowances paid to students? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak to this Bill in order to refer to a matter of concern to a great number of Australian people. These people are the students who are now being caused great hardship because of this Government's action on the National Employment and Training scheme. I refer to the news release by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  titled: 'New NEAT Arrangements '. I believe that it is important that we look at the reasons why the NEAT scheme was originally established. The NEAT system was originally established to allow unemployed people an opportunity to develop new skills and permit them to re-enter the work force more readily. The skills that were to be taught had to be required by industry and most of the people training under NEAT have been retrenched or made redundant or are the victims of industrial accidents. 
I have received complaints from 30 students at the Sydney Technical College who are taking courses in mechanical engineering and business and administrative studies. The vast majority of these complaints come under the headings I have listed. Special consideration was also given to the difficulties encountered by women, particularly deserted wives and unmarried mothers, who were unskilled. In fact in August 1975 nearly 53 per cent of those people training under the NEAT scheme were females. Also, people had to have been unemployed for 4 months prior to joining the scheme. Allowances were set at $96  a  week and adjusted according to increases in the national wage. I think it is extremely important that we realise that the NEAT trainees entered their courses on the assurance that those figures would remain unchanged. The allowance was set because the Labor Government realised that people who were to be students under NEAT would have to be well established in view of their domestic commitments for home, families, schooling, etc. It was basic to the scheme that no person would suffer hardship in order to take on courses. 
NEAT was geared to assist the unemployed to adapt to changed circumstances, to better equip them for future employment and to provide general industry with a more highly skilled and educated workforce. This was to be accomplished without economic hardship. I believe NEAT was working well under the previous Government. Some 14 000 people were in training in the last months of 1975. It was succeeding in its aims. I also believe that the program encouraged people to acquire skills which were in short supply in industry. In other words NEAT was an integral part of Government manpower policy and all Australians would ultimately have benefited from such improvements in skills and education in the work force. 
What is the situation in which we find ourselves now? As a result of the action of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in reducing the training allowance for independent students from $96.80 to $23.40 a week a majority of these students will be forced, due to financial reasons, to discontinue their courses. They will be simply unable to meet their commitments. 
I should like to give some relevant information that I received on this subject from the 2 schools that I have mentioned. There is the case of a gentleman who was 40 years of age and in the catering business. Ill health forced him to discontinue his trade and that is the reason for his being in NEAT. He has to pay rent of $25 a week and repayments on a car of $16.50 a week. We have the case of a 34-year old taxi driver who was a victim of assault while driving a taxicab which resulted in his being unable to drive a cab. That is his reason for being in NEAT. He pays $82  a  week in rent and fixed commitments. We have the case of a 36-year old cleaner with a wife and 3 children.  His  wife earns $120 a week. He was injured and unable to do labouring work.  His  expenses are a mortgage of $ 1 80 per month. 
There is the case of a 44-year old nurse who was forced to retire from nursing due to ill health. That is the reason for her being in NEAT. She has medical expenses of $41.55 a week after payments from Medibank, $25 per week for a car which is necessary because of osteoarthritis of the spine, $4.80 a week for parking because she is unable to carry books and further commitments of $9 a week. We have the case of a 37-year old boilermaker with a wife and one child. He suffered a back injury and could not follow his trade. He pays rent of $45 a week, fares of $6.50 a week, and hire purchase payments of $ 1 8 a week in respect of his car and $4 a week for furniture. 
These are only some of the instances from the 30 letters I have received on this matter so far. Many of the students concerned either will be forced to return to their previous occupations which they were attempting to leave or they will be unable to find work at all. Australian industry generally will be affected adversely because of the shortage of skilled workers. I find it quite incredible that the Minister refuses to take responsibility for the consequences of his action in this matter. I quote from an article which appeared in the  National Times  for 15 to 20 March 1976 in which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  stated:   no Government can be held responsible when it changes a scheme instigated by another Government. 
I ask: Can this Government be held responsible for any such actions involving programs of the previous Government? Apparently not, according to the Minister. I believe also that a number of contradictions appear in this news release. The Minister stated: 
The Government accepts that it is its responsibility to provide and maintain the conditions in which the individual can develop his skills for his own and the community's benefit. 
I do not believe that by reducing independent trainee's allowance by $70 per week the Government is providing or maintaining such conditions. I believe that precisely the opposite will ensue. I quote again from the Minister's statement: 
Underlying the Government's action is a determination to restore the nation to full industrial activity and economic prosperity. Training has a critical role to play in this process. The opportunity for individuals to develop their skills and capabilities to the fullest possible extent is basic to our economic wellbeing. 
Again, I believe that Australia's economic wellbeing will not be served by forcing many of the present 7300 NEAT trainees out of their courses. Such action as cutting the allowance constitutes a failure to acknowledge the importance of this training and it will in no way assist in restoring this nation to prosperity. I believe also that there is no guarantee that the 3000 unemployed people mentioned in the statement will be sufficiently comfortable financially to take advantage of the Minister's proposals. Any new trainees will be beginning their NEAT courses at the expense of others, such as those to whom I have referred. 
I believe that the Government should take urgent action on this matter, that it should restore the NEAT allowance to $96.80 a week and that it should continue to adjust it in line with movements in the national wage. I believe that the Government should provide for expansion of the NEAT system if it is desired that more trainees should be given the opportunity to develop skills. I think that we should encourage rather than discourage the unemployed and unskilled to undertake training by continually reviewing the system to improve facilities for the trainees' study and working course. I believe that by following this course the Government at last will give evidence that it is genuinely concerned with the difficulties of those workers who have been made redundant by technological developments, those who are handicapped and those without skills in the advanced industrial economy we have in this country today. The Government's action so far demonstrates that it is not aware of the original objectives of the NEAT scheme nor is it concerned with making progress towards the achievement of these goals. I hope that the Government will take notice of some of those cases that I have cited tonight. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I preface it by reminding him that last Tuesday he told my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland that recently he went to New Zealand to have discussions with the New Zealand Government and that the head of his Department, the Minister's private secretary and the Minister's wife accompanied him. I now ask: Did the Minister return to Australia through Norfolk Island? Were he and his party there joined by the Minister's Press secretary? If so, in view of the economic stringencies now being imposed by this Government on other sections of the Public Service, will the Minister explain the necessitous circumstances that required his Press secretary to join him and his party in Norfolk Island? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister, in reply to a question asked by  Senator Sibraa  on 3 March 1976, state that Australia, under this present Government, had no friends in the Third World; if so, will the Minister explain where Australia's friends are to be found. 
2 ) Are the ASEAN nations, all of whom constitute part of the Third World, Australia 's friends. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development with the comment that a number of Australian sporting bodies have approached me to express their concern at the manner in which the Government has reduced assistance to their organisations and as a consequence are particularly worried about the financial situation confronting the Australian Olympic contingent. In view of this, will the Minister give an assurance that the Australian Government will underwrite the cost of sending the Australian Olympic team to Montreal this year? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis, advised the Minister or the Prime Minister of his intention to announce this afternoon the withdrawal of the writs for the by-election in the State seat of Monaro and the holding of a State election in New South Wales on Saturday, 1 May 1976? If so, is this not a clear indication that the New South Wales Liberal Party realises the damage being done to it by the policies of the present Federal Liberal-National Country Party Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In the light of the fact that the Government has conceded that it has no definite Federal policy on regional affairs, will he nonetheless undertake to ensure that sufficient finance is made available to the New South Wales State Government in order that the Bathurst-Orange growth centre program may proceed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969-1973 the Government promised to pay a large proportion of the cost of a senior citizens centre at St Marys, New South Wales, as well as paying two-thirds of the salary of a welfare officer employed in conjunction with such a centre. The Penrith City Council and the St Marys Combined Pensioners Association are very worried about the long delay in this matter. Is the Government proceeding with the project? If so, when will it commence? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Government pay for two first-class air fares each for the Governor-General and Lady Kerr when they returned recently from Europe. 
I present the following petition from 64 citizens of Australia; 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Democratic control of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is essential to a sound system of industrial relations. 
And whereas democratic control can only be guaranteed by the opportunity for all rank and file members of organisations to vote in elections for officials and Committees of Management, and whereas some forces within the Trade Union Movement are attempting to deny rank and file members the right to vote in Union elections. 
Your petitioners humbly pray, that the members in Parliament assembled will take steps to: 
.  Preserve Democracy in Trade Unions by guaranteeing the right of all members to participate in rank and file ballots for officials and Committees of Management. 
Resist the pressures from those elements in the Trade Union Movement seeking to deny members the right to vote. 
Ensure the widest participation in Union ballots by making it compulsory to vote in union elections. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide details of the rate of retention for all ranks of the Australian Armed Services for the years 1972 and 1975. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Attorney-General able to give details as to what stage the investigations into the bombing incidents involving the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke  Petersen, the then caretaker Prime Minister, and the Governor-General in late 1 975 have reached. 
Have these investigations in fact been concluded; if so, what were the results. 
I wish to raise tonight an issue which is of great concern to New South Wales members and officials of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation. Earlier tonight I received a telegram from  Mr Joe  Thompson, secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation, who informed me that the Borg- Warner (Australia) Ltd automatic transmission plant at Albury is under threat to possible closure. He states:  . . company will cease operation if any major manufacturer of automobiles decide to cancel orders and purchase automatic transmission from overseas request you seek an  assurance that Government will intervene and prevent possible closure. 
I hope that  Senator Cotton,  who is the appropriate Minister, will treat this matter with urgency. I am sure that he will agree with me that the BorgWarner plant at Albury is an integral part of the community and that the future of the AlburyWodonga growth centre would be severely affected if the plant were forced to close. 
I present the following petition from 22 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
1 ) The Australian Assistance Plan is a vital welfare programme because it is one of the few attempts by the Australian Government to foster local participation in community affairs. 
The Australian Assistance Plan has been able to provide support to many local organisations whose needs were able to be well documented, but who would otherwise have been unable to gain access to funds for welfare projects. 
The Australian Assistance Plan in its conception is remarkable in that it enables funds to be channelled directly to where the need is greatest. 
Your petitioners pray that the Australian Government will continue to support financially and politically the Australian Assistance Plan in its present form, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Construction of Family Flats in Turner, A.C.T. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of a statement made by the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in his electoral talk on 18 April 1976 in which he characterised many social welfare programs as being socially irresponsible? Is the Minister prepared to identify which programs are thought by the Government to be socially irresponsible? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Will the Government take the steps which are necessary to provide adequate insurance cover for employees of the Australian Broadcasting Commission who travel on unscheduled or hazardous flights? In determining what constitutes adequate insurance, will the Minister acknowledge the expressed opinion of the Australian Journalists Association which has called for insurance cover to be based on salary rates rather than a flat sum to guard against erosion of value through inflation? 
When I was first listening to  Senator Townley  speaking I did not know whether he was quoting from the  Arabian Nights  or talking of some fairy tale from Hans Christian Andersen. Of course, the Opposition knew about the document he sought to table. It was obtained by the police in the investigation of the Iraqi loans affair. It was investigated and found to be false. An attempt was made by the Australian Labor Party to have the document about which  Senator Townley  talked tonight tabled in the House of Representatives along with other documents. This was refused by the Government in the House of Representatives because, quite obviously, the Government did not want to dirty its hands. I believe that  Senator Townley  was given this document by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to try to influence the result of the New South Wales elections, and he was probably the only person who was prepared to use the document. 
I withdraw. I just pose the question: Why has the Government not acted on the breach of the banking regulations to which 

 Senator Townley referred? I submit to the Senate that the answer is that the Government knows that the document is a lot of Murdoch rubbish. The Australian Labor Party does not intend to answer further this stupid nonsense. 
I have risen tonight to speak to this Bill to give me the chance of raising a matter that I feel is of importance to the people of New South Wales. I refer to the Government's federalism policy. I believe that under the Fraser Government's federalism policy the States will now be obliged to assume responsibility for the administration of many programs in the areas of health, education, welfare, transport and urban and regional development, without being provided with the financial capacity to fund these programs. This becomes evident on looking at the result of the Premiers Conference of this month. The result is that the States are to receive 35 per cent of Commonwealth personal income tax revenue as financial assistance grants, which historically is a low percentage of revenue. 
Under the Labor Government the States did not have to rely greatly on financial assistance grants because the Federal Government accepted total responsibility for the provision of funds for many programs, which consequently saved State resources. An example is the recurrent costs of Australian universities. This became a Federal responsibility in 1975-76 under the Labor Government, with costs totalling $406m. But under this present Government there is no guarantee that the responsibilities undertaken by the previous Administration will continue to be Federal matters. These responsibilities may be returned to the States without the Australian Government allocating the resources to meet attendant expenses in areas such as health, legal aid and urban development. Indeed, the Bland committee of inquiry is expected to recommend reductions in financial commitments of the order of $ 1 ,000m in the areas which constitute the Australian Government's social welfare and environmental infrastructure. The Australian Government will therefore, under this policy, vacate these fields. 
This will mean that many programs will either be abolished entirely or, if the States desire to continue many worthwhile initiatives that were brought in by the Labor Government, such as hospitals development, growth centres and urban public transport, they will be obliged to introduce their own income tax levy or surcharge or whatever else anybody on the Government side wants to call it. Otherwise the States, for reasons of financial incapacity, will not be able to carry on these programs. Therefore I believe that the Fraser Government's federalism policy will mean either reduced government services or double taxation or both. A reading of the transcripts of the April Premiers' Conference reveals that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  anticipates that in 1976-77 the States will be forced to levy an income tax to meet their increasing responsibilities. 
The new federalism policy means a dramatic increase in the problems of local government. An allocation of 2 per cent of personal income tax revenue to local government is totally insufficient to meet the needs of local administration. In fact, I believe that local government wanted at least 4 per cent of the revenue to meet these requirements, especially in the outer suburban areas of capital cities and in the large provincial centres of New South Wales. This will mean that council rates will have to increase rapidly merely to keep pace with the demands of citizens for a better environment and better services. 
I want to mention briefly some areas in which the new federalism policy will cause problems in my State of New South Wales. The first is in decentralisation and development. The new federalism has caused the Government to vacate the field of urban and regional development.  Senator Greenwood,  the Minister in the Senate responsible for these matters, has conceded that the present Government has no policy on decentralisation and development. I believe that the future of the Bathurst-Orange growth centre is conspicuously in doubt and I believe that the future of the Albury-Wodonga growth centre is seriously in doubt also. Therefore, many opportunities for lessening the pressures on the major metropolitan centres of New South Wales- that is, Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong- by encouraging new development in other centres will be lost. The opportunities for establishing new decentralised economic ventures in a better working environment will be lost. 
With respect to the dairy industry, the new federalism policy promises nothing to improve the disastrous position of the milk industry in New South Wales, where the base milk quota zoning system has resulted in waste, inefficiency and injustice, all to protect the interests of a few privileged producers, including several Cabinet Ministers in New South Wales. I believe that, in all, 9 members of the Government in New South Wales hold milk quotas under this scheme. One only had to see the actions of the Dairy Farmers Action Group within the last few days to realise how serious the situation is in New South Wales. I am pleased to say that the Leader of the Labor Party in New South Wales, Neville Wran, has promised to abolish the BMQ zone after the election on 1 May next. 
I want to deal also with transport, because the new federalism policy offers no answers to the problems of the New South Wales transport system. In 1965- that is, the last year under a Labor Government- the New South Wales Railways earned a profit of $176,000. Admittedly that is not a large amount; but it is a profit. In 1976- that is, 11 years later- under a LiberalNational Country Party coalition government, the loss is approximately $250m- that is, a loss of $ 1 m for every working day on the railways alone. I am sure that the other senators from New South Wales will agree with me that the safety record of the New South Wales railways is deplorable also. In the period 1965 to 1975 the New South Wales Railways lost 37 million passenger journeys. This is of concern to everybody in New South Wales. The Labor Party in New South Wales has promised that it will reduce fares by 20 per cent in order to attract passengers back. A number of overseas studies have been undertaken on this matter and it has been shown that the only way to get back these passenger journeys that have been lost- 37 million- is either to cut fares or to stabilise them at their present level. 
In the field of education the new federalism policy has already forced the cancellation of the Australian Government's innovations programs in schools. In New South Wales at the moment there are over 3000 unemployed Australian teachers. No advances are being made on class sizes in schools. Unless Federal assistance is provided the New South Wales education system will deteriorate further and all the gains made under the previous Federal Labor Government could be lost. 
We shall come to the matter of where the money is coming from. 
-I shall deal with that. The new federalism policy has meant already the abolition of the innovative Department of Urban and Regional Development. The policy will soon ensure the end of the Lands Commission, urban rehabilitation, area improvements and the national sewerage program. Such measures, I believe, will prove disastrous for all residents of New South Wales. Reference was just made about where the money is to come from. In 1975 the New South Wales Government failed to spend $17m of finance that was made available to it by Canberra for the field of housing. But the State Government has announced that the Housing Commission is without sufficient finance to carry on its building program, even though $ 1 7m could not be spent last year. If this is not inefficiency I ask what is. 
The cost of living in New South Wales at the moment is far higher than it is for a comparable State, such as Victoria, especially on ordinary everyday items such as bread, milk, petrol, land, motor charges and motor insurance. This new federalism policy will add the burden of double taxation to the crippling cost of living being endured by the citizens of New South Wales at the moment. In conclusion, I believe that the present Government's approach to Federal affairs has seen the end of national superannuation, insurance and compensation, the winding down of legal aid, the emasculation of welfare programs and in the future could soon mean the end of Medibank. The Government's approach will ensure that the States must take on programs for which they do not have adequate resources. In short, I believe it is a series of retrograde steps which will have the combined effect of making State and local government services poorer for lack of finance, and the citizens of New South Wales liable to a double income tax or a levy or a surcharge merely to keep some essential public welfare programs functioning in the fields where responsibility has been abrogated by Canberra. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration: How many applications for migration to Australia from Lebanon have been received during 1976? How many have been successful? What are the main reasons for the rejection of unsuccessful applications? 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation  of  personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would: 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
b) find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister offer an explanation of why the number of persons applying for retraining under the NEAT scheme has dropped by approximately 4 per cent from February 1976 to March 1976? Can he also offer an explanation of why the decline in the number of applicants in April will be even sharper? Does not the answer lie in the Government's reduction in trainee allowances paid to those people enrolled in NEAT programs? Where are the 3000 additional NEAT trainees anticipated by the Minister's statement of 27 February 1976? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It arises out of a previous question asked by  Senator James  McClelland. In the light of statistics cited by the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 May 1976 showing that the rate of unemployment amongst Australian Aborigines is as high as 30 per cent, will the Minister, perhaps in co-operation with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and also the Department of Social Security take immediate steps to ensure that this abnormally high rate of unemployment is reduced? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does a Swiss drug company, Protea, enjoy a significant cost advantage in its dealings on the Australian pharmaceutical market; if so, is this because the company imports many of its products from South Africa, which are manufactured cheaply by black inmates in State mental institutes. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Having regard to the concern which has been expressed by the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council about the future of manufacturing industry in that State, particularly in the areas of textiles, vehicle building, rubber, electronics and metals, will the Minister given an assurance that the Government will review the present level of tariff protection for those industries so as to maximise employment opportunities in these areas? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government install an automatic telephone exchange at Wallerawang in the Federal Electorate of Macquarie, as the district at present has only an inadequate manual exchange. 
Are residents, organisations and industries within the area desirous of such a facility being established at the earliest possible date. 
I raise a question tonight concerning a large number of people in the Federal electorate of Mackellar in New South Wales. In a time of high unemployment, particularly in this electorate where the position of local employment particularly is causing concern, we find that Hanimex Pty Ltd, an Australian company, dismissed approximately 40 employees because- I quote the company's spokesman- 'insufficient orders made retrenchment inevitable'. These dismissals took place on 14 May and the complete afternoon shift of the company's colour processing department was retrenched. These mass sackings came without the slightest warning. Orders at the factory have been up to expectation and it is usual that they increase after the school holiday period. As I said, these sackings came as a complete surprise because on 5 May, just 9 days before, the company had advertised in the local Press for additional photopress workers and additional people were in fact hired after that advertisement on 5 May. Also, while the 40 people were told on the Friday that they were being retrenched because of insufficient orders, the day shift that had previously been engaged on that Friday in exactly the same process was called in to work overtime on the Saturday morning. On the Friday afternoon, officials of the Miscellaneous Workers Union tried to persuade the management of Hanimex to postpone the retrenchments until all concerned could put forward their views. Suggestions were made that if retrenchments had to be made they should be made from both the day shift and the night shift so that those with greater needs for employment might be kept on. All these protestations were to no avail and the night shift in its entirety was dismissed that afternoon. 
These dismissed employees then picketed the plant on the Saturday morning. It is generally believed by other employees of Hanimex that these people were dismissed because they supported the union against the company in particular disputes which were taking place.  Mr President,  I believe that these dismissals were wrong. I believe that they were designed deliberately to cause industrial strife. This matter comes before the Arbitration Commission in Sydney next Friday. I hope that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  who is aware of the employment problems in this area of Sydney and who is no doubt aware that Hanimex, an Australian company, is a very large employer of local labour, takes note of these remarks tonight. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that under the new tax indexation and 
Medibank levy proposals a family of three with a total income of $450 a week will be $6 a week better off as opposed to a similar family whose total income is $120 a week and gains less than $ 1 a week extra as a result of the changes? Will the Minister concede, therefore, that the introduction of tax indexation and the Medibank levy has been designed to ensure that most benefit flows to those on the highest incomes? 
I preface my question which I direct to the Minister for Industry and Commerce by referring to a question that I asked the Minister on 26 May 1976 in answer to which the Minister directed my attention to figures published by his department on tax indexation, the Medibank levy and increases in child endowment being introduced. These figures show that a taxpayer on $120 a week with 3 dependants gains only $1.68 in his weekly take home pay whilst a taxpayer on $460 a week with 3 dependants gains an extra $8.33 a week. Is the Minister now prepared to concede that, as a result of these changes, most benefit will accrue to those on the highest incomes as opposed to those on the lowest incomes, who are in most need of tax relief? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What stage have the negotiations reached between the Department of Defence and striking unionists at the Sydney Carden Island Naval Dockyard. 
Will the Minister give an undertaking that his Department will seek a speedy end to this prolonged dispute, which has caused hardship to other unionists who have been stood down through no fault of their own. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister seen reports in this morning's Press that the Federal Government is to end its direct involvement in the provision of legal aid services and will press the States to take over the functions and staff of the Australian Legal Aid Office? Is this an attempt eventually to disband the Australian Legal Aid Office or is it part of the new federalism policy which will place an even greater financial burden on the States? 
A number of questions which have been raised so far in this cognate debate should be answered now.  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Melzer  raised a number of problems associated with the introduction of the new scheme. As someone who was involved in personnel work and in paying a large number of people, I agree with what has been said. I agree that the procedures will be a nightmare and that the people who will lose out will be the people who need the cover the most. I think one point was missed by both  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Melzer  that should be mentioned. That is the situation where both partners in a marriage are working and one partner stops work and then starts again. This happens quite often with working wives. The bureaucracy that would be involved in the proving of this employment will be staggering.  Senator Baume  and  Senator Tehan  said in this debate that no member of the Australian public will be forced to leave the scheme. They did not say how many would be forced out because of the cost factor. As  Senator Melzer  has said already, time will prove that many will be forced out because of the cost factor.  Senator Baume  said also that approximately $300 per annum will be the cost for a family to stay in Medibank. But, as  Senator Georges  interjected, this amount was said rather quickly, and to a lot of people in Australia it still remains a very large sum of money.  Senator Baume  mentioned also that  Dr Scotton  had given the new scheme his qualified support. I saw  Dr Scotton  interviewed on television and I must say that the support was very qualified. The previous  speaker, Senator Tehan,  mentioned twice that $800m will be saved. I hope somebody in the debate will mention how this money is going to be saved.  Senator Tehan  made a statement also- I hope I heard him correctly- that people would have the freedom to choose their own doctor. I always thought that this was the situation under the existing scheme. 
I rise to speak in this cognate debate because I think that no sharper contrast between the philosophies and attitudes of the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Australian Labor Party can possibly be drawn than on this Medibank issue. In the plans to reduce government expenditure by approximately $2,600m, the heaviest burden of expenditure cuts are among those to which we on this side of the chamber accorded the highest priority, and universal health care is perhaps the most important area in the cuts to which I have referred. It seems strange to me that at this time the Government has announced that defence spending will increase in 1975-76 to a total of $2,200m. I am not questioning the necessity for strong defences; however I am questioning the timing when it is telling the public to exercise self restraint but simultaneously is introducing this Medibank levy and allocating large amounts to defence. 
I will come to  Senator Baume  's interjection in a moment. The Government's decision to force half the Australian people back into private health funds can only be interpreted as breaking, in the most blatant manner, the Liberal-Country Party's assurance to the Australian people in November and December 1975 that Medibank would be retained and strengthened. I emphasise 'strengthened'. 
The 2.5 per cent levy on incomes to fund Medibank, which is nearly double the figure proposed by Labor- I am not arguing about the levy that we were going to introduce,  Senator Baume-  I believe will serve only to make a mockery of the previous Government's aim of universal and equal health care for all Australians.  Senator Baume  also mentioned that the New South Wales Minister for Health had made a number of statements dealing with Medibank. The New South Wales Minister for Health has made the very important statement that the proposed new scheme will mean the existence of one private health care system for the wealthy and an inferior, inadequately financed public health care system for everyone else. All this is from a government which, to quote the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  is 'firmly committed to the concept of Medibank'. Perhaps more appropriately this is a government firmly committed to ensuring that a financial bonanza goes the way of the implacable foes of universal health insurancethe private health funds. 
I listened the other evening with interest to  Senator Sheil  talk about the fact that he had been to look at the Medibank office and had been terrified or scared by the giant computer, by the thousands of cheques being processed and by the millions of forms being printed. As  Senator Melzer  said, about 73 private health funds are still operating in the Australian community. I must say that I am terrified when I think of the 73 computers being used by the private health insurance companies and the 73 lots of duplication as referred to earlier by  Senator Melzer.  The 2Vi per cent tax levy to finance Medibank will place an even greater strain on the wage packet of most Australian families. Medibank was to be financed by a 1 .35 per cent levy on taxable incomes with a maximum payment of $ 1 50 a year. The Liberal-Country Party senators rejected this approach. The Whitlam Government then funded Medibank through general taxation. The levy for Medibank was included in the new tax levels announced by  Mr Hayden  in the 1975-76 Budget with operative effect from 
January 1976. The 2Vi per cent levy is an added impost on the Australian taxpayer which would have been avoided had Labor stayed in power. I think an important point is that the added tax levy will have a highly inflationary effect as it will be reflected in the consumer price index in the next quarter and will result, pursuant to wage indexation, in higher award wages. 
The Government's economic policies, of which Medibank is an integral part, will mean that the wealthiest section of society will benefit most from tax indexation and the Medibank levy. Those on middle and lower incomes will gain little or nothing at all. I asked  Senator Cotton  a question yesterday and he directed my attention to figures published by his Department on the introduction of tax indexation, the Medibank levy and increases in child endowment. These figures show that a taxpayer on $120 a week with 3 dependants gains only $1.68 in his weekly take home pay, whilst the taxpayer on $460 a week with 3 dependants gains an extra $8.33 a week. As I said earlier, this is a blatant breaking of the Government's election manifesto and these are temporary arrangements to last until September. What will happen to the hospitals under Medibank after that date? What more will be sacrificed? 
It has been said that a number of agreements between the Commonwealth Government and the States might not be valid. I wonder whether in the future Medibank could turn out to be one of those agreements. I certainly hope not. I realise that qualms were expressed by the Attorney-General's Department at the time of the introduction of Medibank. However, the Department of Social Security advised the Minister,  Mr Hayden,  to go ahead with the scheme. This whole issue is an important part of the Government's federalism policy in my opinion, a policy that is rapidly coming apart at the seams. This policy will cause massive unemployment and financial disaster. The policy on Medibank is the classic short, sharp shock theory. Shock treatment is usually reserved for those with severe mental disorders. Rather than applying this shock treatment to the Australian people, business, industry and commerce, the Government would be well advised to subject itself to this shock treatment. If it does not heed the warning it will receive a shock before the end of 1978 when it faces the Australian electorate. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide sufficient information so as to clarify the future plans of the Blue Circle CementPortland organisation, which provides most of the employment opportunities in the town of Portland, New South Wales. 
) Is the Minister aware that, as a result of this company having retrenched 35 employees in 1975 and the prevailing uncertainty about the company's present intentions, there exists a general disquiet in the Portland area about the future for those working in, or dependent upon, this enterprise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Which companies, private or public, at present hold concessions for the operation of snack bars and other amenities at Australia's international airports. 
What were the profits made by those organisations as a result of those operations in the financial year ended 30 June 1975. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled, the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Prices Index months after prices of goods and services have risen, and that medications which were formerly pharmaceutical benefits must now be paid for. Additionally, that State housing authorities ' waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners grow ever longer, and the cost of funerals increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to - 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically when the quarterly Consumer Prices Index is announced. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
Update the State Grants ( Dwellings for Pensioners ) Act of 1974, eroded by inflation, to increase grants to overcome the backlog. 
Update Funeral Benefit to 60 per cent of reasonable cost of funeral. (This benefit was 200 shillings, 20 dollars, when introduced in 1943. It was seven times the 1943 pension of 27 shillings a week). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs either confirm or deny reports that United States Military aircraft have been and are continuing to use Australian facilities on Cocos Islands on stopovers while en route from Clark Air Base in the Philippines to Diego Garcia? 
As someone who has been to the Soviet Union, and especially to Estonia, to look for some of the problems referred to by  Senator Missen,  I listened to his speech with a great deal of interest. However, I might suggest that recent statements by the Leader of his Party probably did not help him in his undertaking while he was in the Soviet Union. My reason for speaking on the adjournment debate tonight is to raise the serious problems which face people living in the electorates of Macquarie and Calare in New South Wales because of this Government's decision concerning growth centres and decentralisation and because of the long delay in construction of the lateral gas pipelines to bring natural gas to these areas as part of the national pipeline grid. The issue of natural gas laterals is also directly linked to that of decentralisation and development. These issues should concern a number of Government Ministers, including those holding the portfolios of National Resources; Environment, Housing and Community Development; and Employment and Industrial Relations. The problems range from energy supply to job opportunities and the whole future of decentralisation in country areas in New South Wales. The cities of Lithgow and Bathurst-Orange are included in the areas that I mention, and these are regions which I visit as a New South Wales senator. Therefore it is incumbent on me to bring these matters to the notice of the Government for the urgent attention that they require. 
I refer, firstly, to the matter of natural gas. The construction of the national pipeline grid has been from its inception and remains to this day primarily a federal responsibility. That has been borne out by statements made by the member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly for Bathurst,  Mr Clive  Osborne, and the former Minister for Mines and Energy in the Willis State Government,  Mr George  Freudenstein. I would like to quote  Mr Freudenstein  's formal request to the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in April 1 976.  Mr Freudenstein  said: 
New South Wales has withdrawn request for deferment of laterals, and State now requests you proceed to build laterals in accordance with agreements signed between Pipeline Authority and Australian Gas Light Company. Such agreement recognises and acquires conditions and powers previously held by the State. 
Thus is quite obvious that a federal obligation is very important in this matter, and attempts by Government backbenchers in another place to avoid that responsibility will be quickly seen through by their constituents in Macquarie and Calare electorates. We all know that natural gas is a clean form of fuel. It is economical and it is preferable to most other forms of fuel for these reasons: Industry in the areas of Lithgow and Bathurst-Orange, including decentralised industries, are eagerly awaiting natural gas supplies to fulfil their fuel and energy requests. I can give an example which I am sure  Senator Cotton  knows about, and that is Albaware Tiles Pty Ltd in Lithgow which has made numerous requests in relation to this matter. Natural gas means job opportunities and security. Failure to construct the laterals means greater unemployment in that area, which is already running at 85 per cent higher than in 1975. 1 think my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, might have mentioned this afternoon when he spoke that Lithgow was one of those areas that he had visited during the parliamentary recess. As I said, unemployment is 85 per cent higher than it was in 1975. It also means greater business failure and economic hardship. 
What the Government did last night in relation to growth centres was lip service only. The New South Wales Government has made it plain through  Mr Hills,  the Minister for Mines and Energy, that it is formally committed to the construction of the laterals. The New South Wales Government fully appreciates the importance of those laterals and is ready to cooperate with AGL, the Pipeline Authority and the Federal Government to build the spur lines. This Government must therefore take urgent action in the form of increased allocations for the construction of the laterals. That now seems a remote possibility and unless the Government rethinks its position the people of Lithgow and Bathurst-Orange will not have natural gas this decade. The allocation of $2m which was announced last night for the Bathurst-Orange growth centre was an insult to the people who live in the electorates of Macquarie and Calare. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has completely disregarded assurances that were given to the electors in that area in NovemberDecember 1975 by the Liberal Party on the future of that area. I wish to quote from a Liberal Party advertisement which was used in the Macquarie electorate in 1975. In that advertisement the Liberal candidate for that seat said: 
We'll get our growth centre. For sure. But the first thing to get back is growth. 
However, growth centres, together with the Australian Assistance Plan, Medibank, the Children's Commission and many other schemes, have been abandoned by this Government. I believe that the Government must make immediate provision for a sustained continuation of the growth centre program, particularly that of Bathurst-Orange, otherwise promising opportunities for decentralisation in that area, the opening up of new employment prospects and chances for better living conditions will be lost. Now a decision has been made by the New South Wales Labor Government to proceed with the transfer of the Central Mapping Authority to Bathurst. This will be of no avail. The BathurstOrange city, as a growth area, will fail and the fault will lay squarely on the shoulders of this Administration.  Senator Greenwood,  the former Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development was honest enough to say in the Senate that he acknowledged the fact that the Fraser Government had no real policy on urban and regional development. We are now seeing the fruits of such neglect. I think there are issues which I have raised which concern at least 2 Ministers. I hope that they have taken note of these remarks tonight. 
Has the Minister for Social Security received a telegram from the Labor Council of New South Wales regretting that in 1975-76, 70 per cent of child care funds went to centres providing only sessional child care? Is it a fact that this is causing extreme hardship for those mothers who are working full office or full factory hours? 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: In view of the severe unemployment that presently characterises the building and construction industry, particularly in New South Wales, is the Government giving any consideration to injecting funds into the industry to prime it, to generate greater economic activity and hence to create more jobs? 
I present the following petition from 327 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into A.B.C. programmes. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Minister appreciate the deep and widespread concern that is held by members of the Ethnic Communities Council of New South Wales about the future organisation and funding of ethnic radio in that State? Is the Minister prepared to give an assurance that sufficient funds will be allocated not only to ensure the continued functioning of ethnic radio beyond 20 September 1976 but also to permit the Ethnic Communities Council to fulfil its policy aims in the years ahead with regard to radio programming? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the concern that is being expressed by the Council of the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales about proposed cuts in the Australian Government recurrent subsidy for sessional pre-schools? Is the Minister aware, further, of the results of a survey taken on 27 July 1976 of the 6082 children attending the 78 Kindergarten Union centres in New South Wales which showed that only 37.42 per cent of children meet the Government's criteria of need? Does the Minister accept that, if the federal subsidy is reduced, there is very real doubt that the New South Wales Government will be able to meet the differences and the majority of children attending Kindergarten Union centres will be withdrawn? Finally, will the Minister consider maintaining the subsidy at its present level? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt.  In speaking on the Budget debate I refer to a speech which was made in this chamber on 25 August 1 976 by  Senator Walters,  who stated: 
I would like to quote  Mr Russell  Prowse who described democratic socialism in this way: 
Democratic socialism is the euphoric passing state from democracy to socialism. 
A lot of people in the chamber, especially on this side, know  Mr Russell  Prowse. He is very prominent in the Bank of New South Wales. The last time I saw him he was being chauffeur-driven in a Rolls Royce or a Bentley- I forget which sort of car it was- across the Sydney Harbour Bridge. As far as I could see, he did not seem to be worried too much about democratic socialism at that time. He seemed to be more worried about prices on the stock exchange.  Senator Walters  then made a most remarkable statement. She said: 
I suggest to those sincere people who believe that there is such a thing as democratic socialism that they should look a little closer at the experience of other countries. Where is there democratic socialism that has existed for any length of time where the people are still free, and where they still have freedom of speech, freedom of worship and freedom to strike for better conditions? 
The situation is that members of the Australian Labor Party on this side of the chamber are members of an organisation called the Socialist International. The Socialist International comprises 56 political parties. It has a total membership of 1 7 million people. It has an electoral strength of over 75 million and at this stage out of the 56 political parties, 22 are in Government and they govern almost 200 million people in all continents. I stress 'all continents'. 
I shall come to that,  Senator. Among  those parties are to be found the most democratic. There are the Western European social democratic parties, particularly in Germany, Sweden, Finland etc, the British Labour Party, the Israeli Labour Party, the Australian Labor Party and the New Zealand Labour Party. In recent times the British Labour Party, as honourable senators would know, ruled between 1964 and 1970 and from 1974 to the present time. One of the most prominent members of the British Labour Party,  Mr Anthony  Crosland, recently in relation to democratic socialism stated: 
What constitutes socialism? Socialism describes a set of principles which socialists wish to see embodied in the organisation of society, based on the aspirations and values of people. What are these values? Firstly, an overriding concern for the poor, the deprived and the disadvantaged, whose relief from poverty, distress and social squalor must be afforded the highest priority. Secondly, a belief in equality, which goes beyond equality of opportunity and a redistribution of income to embrace all aspects of societythe division of property, the educational system, social class relationships, power and privilege in industry. Finally, strict social control over the environment, to enable us to cope with the exploding problems of urban life and to plan for the responsible use of our natural resources. But underlying all our beliefs about the nature of society is a deep and enduring commitment to democratic principles, to freedoms of speech, belief, assembly and association and to the administration of society by legally enacted statute. Socialism loses all meaning when the democratic system is violated; it ceases to exist without the protection of democratic forms of government. 
That was written in a magazine that is distributed to all the members of the Socialist International I mentioned earlier. In considering the democratic socialist parties in the world today, one should look at Sweden, another European country, where economic recovery is strongly in evidence. The social democatic Government in co-operation- I stress 'co-operation'- with the Opposition parties in the Swedish Parliament recently negotiated a basis for a wages policy with the trade union movement. This certainly is assisting in that country's economic recovery. 
I turn now to West Germany where the Social Democratic Party, the SPD, has been in office since 1969. The West German economic performance is leading European economic recovery. Why?  Senator Walters  referred us the other night to West Germany as an example for Australia to follow but she did not say that there had been a Social Democratic government in West Germany since 1969. The West German rate of inflation in 1975 was 6.5 per cent. In 1976 it is expected to be approximately 5 per cent. The  Economist  in May 1976 said that 'much of the West German recovery and sustained economic recovery can be attributed to the absence of industrial disruption- a product of codetermination'. The co-determination that the West Germans enjoy has been achieved through co-operation with the trade union movement. But what happens in Australia when a political party puts forward a policy of co-determination, of worker participation? We saw recently during the New South Wales State elections a section of The Australian Labor Party's platform dealing with worker participation. In fact it was much milder than the worker participation scheme brought in by the Social Democrats in West Germany. What happened here was that the conservatives in our community attacked this as some son of Communist plot and suggested that the workers were about to take over the factories. They generally attacked the scheme along those lines. We know the result now. The people of New South Wales did not fall for this suggestion and there is in the platform of the New South Wales Labor Party a strong section dealing with worker participation. 
Social democratic parties stand as protectors of democracy and civil liberties. They stand as bulwarks against dictatorship of the extreme Left or the extreme Right. One should look back to what happened in Germany between 1919 and 1933 when the Social Democrats first got control of that country. Spain in the 1930s is another example, as is Greece more recently until 1967 and again from 1974. Chile has been mentioned today. Where is the radical party in Chile today? Where are the democratic socialist parties in Chile today? I have been to a conference of the Socialist International and have talked with representatives of the democratic socialist parties in Chile and I can tell honourable senators where they are. There are some trying to operate out of Venezuela and some trying to operate from an office in London. In effect the socialist democratic parties are completely banned because after the fascist coup social democratic parties and invariably the trade union movement were proscribed and disbanded. 
I was dealing with the situation in Chile. When talking about Chile it is interesting to look at what sort of parties made up the coalition in Chile and to find the people there who suffer the harshest treatment. I think honourable senators would find that the social democratic parties received the harshest treatment. This is because of their firm adherence to democratic principles and their commitment to constitutional propriety. One has only to look again at the situation which exists in Portugal today. Recently I visted an organisation called the Friedrich Ebert Foundation in West Germany. It is an organisation set up to assist social democratic parties all over the world whether they are legally allowed to operate or operate illegally. When I was there it was explained to me what was happening in Portugal today and as a member of the Australian Labor Party I am proud to say that the assistance, both moral and financial, given by the Australian Labor Party helped in some small way towards the victories which the Portuguese Socialist Party achieved in the election recently. 
As was explained to me in West Germany, nowhere is the importance of social democrats to the continued viability of parliamentary democracy more in evidence than in Portugal today. Without the effective performance of the Portuguese socialist party under  Dr Soares,  both electorally and in government since the election, Portugal would long ago have fallen to the forces of dictatorship. Those forces whether of the extreme Left or the extreme Right would have ruled Portugal. Whoever enjoyed the most military support would have ruled that country, but thanks to the support of social democratic parties all over the world there is now a much more stable situation. The Portuguese Socialist Party can rightly claim to have safeguarded the fragile democracy which only recently emerged after 50 years of fascism in that country. But for the PSF and its determined commitment to democratic priniciples, Portugal would once again have receded into the tyranny it knew before, whether of the Right or of the Left. I think I have spent enough time dealing with the remarks that  Senator Walters  made the other night about democratic socialism. I considered her charges to be serious and that it was worth while taking the time in this Budget debate to answer them tonight. Now let me get on to dealing with the Budget. 
The  Sydney Morning Herald  on 18 August 1976 called the Fraser Budget a big business Budget. We saw the immediate stock exchange reaction. We saw the reaction of honourable senators opposite to what was happening on the stock exchange. However, both the stock exchange and honourable senators opposite would be somewhat subdued now if they looked at the figures of yesterday or even as late as tonight. There is plenty in the Budget for corporations. There is plenty in it for mining and oil lobbies but I cannot see a great deal in it for the average working Australian. It seems certain that unemployment will rise as a direct result of this Budget. This is deliberately planned as part of the economic strategy to reduce inflation. It is worth remembering in this Budget debate what the late J. B. Chifley said on unemployment in the book he wrote entitled  Things Worth Fighting For.  In it he said: 
You cannot have discipline and efficiency- so critics sayunless you have a degree of unemployment. Not too much unemployment, of course, that would be bad for business. Just a nice 6 or 8 per cent of unemployment ... to keep the fear of the sack in the hearts of all the rest. 
We reject this as a barbarous and intolerant point of view and dismiss as absurd the argument used to support it as recently as the statement made by  Senator Durack  this afternoon. The cutbacks in the public sector will mean less economic activity for the private sector and particularly hard hit will be the construction industry. The  Australian Financial Review  on 18 August 1 976 had this to say: 
Australia's construction industry, already facing dire times, is a major victim of the Lynch deflationary Budget . . . Almost certainly there will be increased unemployment arising out of the Budget ... It has been given just the opposite to assistance. 
The construction industry needs to be primed to stimulate greater economic activity and this Budget has failed to do it. Unemployment at the moment is far higher than it was at any time under the Labor Government. The economy has not provided new jobs for the 180 000 persons who go into the market this year, the school leavers. What will it be like next year? The trend revealed in the production figures cited in the  Australian Financial Review on  25 August 1976 is that economic recovery is still a long way off. Recently published business surveys agree with this point. Unemployment is particularly high in rural areas of New South Wales and is continuing to increase. I will give some examples. In  Lithgow  unemployment rose by 96 per cent in the 12 months by July 1976. In Bathurst it rose by 50 per cent, in Cessnock by 43 per cent and in Dubbo and Casino by over 30 per cent. There are many more examples in other country towns and rural areas of New South Wales. Yet there are no remedial measures proposed. The Government does not seem to be terribly concerned about this rural unemployment. There is no upgrading of the Regional Employment Development scheme or new initiative in this area. 
Then we come to the question of the cost of living. The Government assumes the rate of inflation at around 12 per cent per annum. But if one looks at food prices one finds that they are rising at a much higher rate. I think in the latest consumer price index they are in excess of 13 per cent. I do not have the exact figure. However, I am sure it is over 13 per cent. There is no protection of incomes against inflation through wage indexation because this Government has no wages policy. It has no industrial relations policy except to bash unions as we saw in the statement brought down by  Senator Durack  this afternoon. As  Senator Button  said when he replied to that statement, of course there will be industrial unrest as workers try to maintain their living standards. What trade union leader in Australia could go to his trade union and ask his members to accept a cut in real living standards at the moment? I put it to you that nobody would. 
Pension and social service increases do not come into effect until November of this year. There are no increases for those under 1 8 years of age, yet there are large numbers of these young people out of work. Let us look at the Budget as far as welfare is concerned. According to the Australian Council of Social Service most people will lose as a result of the Budget. The Council's Secretary-General,  Mr Ian  Yates, was quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 23 August 1 976 as saying: 
. the cost, in human and economic terms, could not be justified. 
The welfare housing allocation decreases in real terms. The reduction in the formula for granting assistance to aged persons' housing has fallen from a ratio of $4 for $ 1 to $2 for $ 1 . Only a couple of weeks ago I was invited to open aged persons' homes in the Manly- Warringah area in Sydney. These aged persons ' homes were built by the St Vincent de Paul Society. At the opening it was pointed out that because of this cut in subsidy from $4 for $ 1 to $2 for $ 1 -this was pointed out not by me but by the State  President  of the  Society- this  would probably be the last housing of this type built in the Manly- Warringah area. 
Funds for health have been reduced. A number of different figures have been quoted. Some people have said that the reduction is as high as $126m. This decision closely follows on the destruction of Medibank as a result of which Australians are being forced into private funds. In the last week I have been through 2 electorates in New South Wales. I was also asked to address a union seminar at which I was asked questions after the meeting had ended. Invariably nine out of ten questions concerned Medibank. It was evident from the questions that people did not know to what they were entitled. They do not know what the situation will be. This matter has turned into a real medimaze. If honourable senators on the other side of the chamber doubt me they should go out to some public meeting and ask people what they think is going to be the situation in respect of Medibank when the new scheme comes into operation. If honourable senators opposite do so they will get a great surprise at the answers they receive. 
-That is right. The Australian Assistance Plan has already been abolished. This has been despite the assurance of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in the Senate on 18 February. I want to quote from  Hansard  of 1 8 February 1 976. 
On that occasion I asked the Minister for Social Security a question about the Government's intention to continue support for the Australian Assistance Plan. I will not read all of my question. However, I will read what  Senator Guilfoyle  said in reply. She said: 
The honourable senator may be aware that the Australian Assistance Plan was a 3-year program which will conclude this year. The Department of Social Security has arranged a conference to be held early in May at which all the regional councils and other people directly involved in the Plan will be represented. The conference will be held to evaluate the 3-year Plan as it has developed and to give a guide as to what may be the future of the Australian Assistance Plan. I shall be in attendance at the conference and all people from regional councils throughout Australia will have an opportunity to put their points of view and the experience which they have had of the development of the Plan. At some later stage we will be able to make some deliberations with regard to its future. I think all regional councils are aware of the conference. The concern which the honourable senator has referred to could, I think, be only concern, understanding that there will be an opportunity for revaluation and review early in May. 
Only concern'! Well, that concern that I expressed on that date turned out to be correct. When we look at what the Budget has done in the area of urban and regional development we see that total cuts are over $150m. The growth centre program has been severely curtailed. I would like to read into  Hansard  details of the funds allocated. In 1975-76 Albury-Wodonga was allocated $35m. This amount has been slashed to $ 15m in 1976-77. The 1975-76 allocation of $15. 7m for Macarthur has been slashed in 1976-77 to $2m. The allocation of $8.3m for Bathurst-Orange in 1975-76 has been slashed to $2m in 1976-77. I remember  Senator Greenwood  's statement in answer to a question that I asked him on 1 April 1 976. He said: 
No project at the present time is imperilled. Certainly the Bathurst-Orange project is not in jeopardy as the result of Government considerations. 
Yet the Bathurst-Orange project has been cut from $8.3m to $2m. That $2m will probably keep the program running administratively over that period of time. 
I believe that under this Budget the growth centres are finished. I said during the adjournment debate recently that the natural gas laterals in connection with Bathurst-Orange and Lithgow are in danger. I realise that in reply to a question the next day  Senator Cotton  did not take this point of view and blamed other people, including the New South Wales Government. I am collecting some figures on this item and I hope to be able to raise this matter again during the adjournment debate in the very near future. 
There are some other points in the Budget that I think are worth examining. I think that Australia's existing cities will be poorer because of the Budget. There are no new programs for urban public transport. The funds for sewerage projects have been cut by $63m. There are no funds for the National Estate. The cities will further deteriorate. Environmental protection is something of the past. 
Much has been said in this chamber about the new federalism. New federalism under this Budget means that the States are to be starved financially. The States will be obliged to increase taxes and charges to keep services at their present level. I believe this will be highly inflationary. Federal allocations to the States have increased by only 8 per cent while the rate of inflation this year will be at least 12 per cent. Allocations for local government have also been reduced. They have been reduced to the tune of $80m with the result that there will be less public works. It means that there will be economic contraction and further unemployment. 
I now want to deal with the problem of Aborigines. I know that  Senator Keeffe  has spoken in some detail on this subject. But unemployment amongst Australian Aborigines is as high as 30 per cent. Despite  Senator Guilfoyle  's promise on 1 8 May 1 976 to do something about the situation nothing has been done to alleviate it. I would like to quote from the  Hansard  of 18 May 1976. I asked the following question of  Senator Guilfoyle: 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. It arises out of a previous question asked by  Senator James  McClelland. In the light of statistics cited by the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 7 May 1976 showing that the rate of unemployment amongst Australian Aborigines is as high as 30 percent, will the Minister, perhaps in co-operation with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and also the Department of Social Security take immediate steps to ensure that this abnormally high rate of unemployment is reduced. 

 Senator Guilfoyle gave the following answer: 
I did notice the article to which the honourable senator has referred. I shall confer with the Ministers mentioned by the honourable senator to determine what can be done. We have already had interdepartmental meetings and ministerial meetings of several Ministers with regard to the opportunities for employment of Aborigines. I hope that arising from the fact that this matter has been drawn to my notice again we shall be able to take some steps forward in this direction. 
They were some steps forward all right because in fact funds for Aboriginal welfare have been reduced by $33m. This is breaking the election promise that was made by the Liberal and Country Parties in 1975. As I have said,  Senator Keeffe  has outlined this matter in detail previously in the Budget debate. But this is a scandalous situation- Aborigines are the people most in need in this Budget but they are the people getting the least. 
I think it important that we examine what this Budget does not do. It does not stimulate business confidence. Most business leaders, according to surveys, predict a worsening economic situation. The Government's major economic statement in May reduced business confidence statistically by 3 per cent. This Budget does not encourage consumers to release savings and spend. I believe that this is the key. Consumers are fearful about their jobs and the high cost of living. This is prompting the Australian community to save more. I think this point was put very well this afternoon by  Senator Button  but I think that in the short time left to me I ought to say some more about it. While Australians are faced with the distinct possibility of losing thenjobs they will continue to save against that eventuality. They will not be encouraged to spend. They will not be encouraged to buy more by seeing their friends, their relatives and their work mates retrenched- particularly in New South Wales in the building and construction industry, in the electronics industry, in the motor vehicle industry or in the ship building industry. 
They feel threatened with redundancy themselves and, of course, there will not be consumer spending. 
Secondly, the taste of Australian consumers appears to be changing quite dramatically. There is a move away from the traditional consumer durables, such as the family saloon car, to the more unusual type of goods. I mentioned motor cars. There has been a move by the consumer towards the purchase of 4-wheel drive vehicles and the expensive imported models. The Government's economic strategy shows no signs of taking this aspect into consideration. This Budget does not provide economic or social security nor does it provide a climate for harmonious industrial relations. The Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam,  described the Budget by saying: 
It is a Budget for social poverty. 
I have pointed out the faults that I see in the Budget. I suppose now I should say what I think should be done. I think the economy must be stimulated to generate economic activity and to provide jobs. The building and construction industry, in particular, should be primed so that the multiplier effect can be brought into play. The public sector must be moderately expanded to ensure social security, public works programs and employment opportunities and so that the private sector can have contracts for business. In the  Age  of 20 August 1 976 Bill Hayden put it this way: 
. a greater level of Government activity has become necessary to sustain the rather slack overall activity in the economy. 
Therefore, a mildly expansionary economic policy is needed now. I believe that the Hayden Budget of 1975 was working and that recovery was on the way. The Fraser Budget can only retard recovery. It can only generate unemployment. It can only ensure prolonged stagnation in all sectors of the Australian economy. This Budget is presented by those who in 1975 paraded as the saviours of Australia. On their own criteria- this Budget- I believe that honourable senators opposite stand condemned. I ask honourable senators to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister able to give an assurance that there will be no further cuts in expenditure in the area of environmental protection. 
I present the following petition from 409 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in Australia: 
Aware that the Federal Government's Budget for 1 976-77 does not include measures to restore full employment in the building and construction industry; 
Alarmed at the fact that unemployment is at the highest level in New South Wales and Queensland since the depression years, with clear indications that the position will further deteriorate. 
Aware that at the same time more and more people are being denied proper housing and other building needs of great social importance are not being carried out. 
Aware that the apprenticeship system is being seriously threatened and many apprentices are unable to complete their apprenticeship. This along with the fact that thousands of tradesmen have been driven out of the industry, will, in years to come create a chronic shortage of skilled workers to the detriment of the community and with enormous adverse economic repercussions. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly: 
Government construction of homes, schools, hospitals and public works development projects, employment and training of unemployed young people, restoration of finance cuts in sewerage and urban development work, provide finance to land commission to provide cheaper land for home building, provide low interest home loans finance. 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend deleting from the formula used for calculating the Consumer Price Index such items as potatoes, onions and meat; if so, what are the reasons for such action being taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice. 
1 ) Has the Treasurer given any consideration to further adjusting the starting time provisions of the flextime system for officers of the Australian Taxation Office. 
What costs would be incurred if employees of the Taxation Office were permitted to commence work at (a) 9.15 a.m.; (b) 9.30 a.m.; (c) 9.45 a.m.; and (d) 10.00 a.m. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is the Government giving consideration to following the initiative taken by the New South Wales Government in providing job opportunities for younger persons by expanding its Public Service recruiting program? 
I present the following petition from 1 75 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, and the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Prices Index months after prices of goods and services have risen, and that medications which were formerly pharmaceutical benefits must now be paid for. 
Additionally, that State housing authorities' waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners grow ever longer, and the cost of funerals increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically when the quarterly Consumer Prices Index is announced. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
Update the State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act of 1974, eroded by inflation, to increase grants to overcome the backlog. 
Update Funeral Benefit to 60 per cent of reasonable cost of funeral. (This benefit was 200 shillings, 20 dollars, when introduced in 1943. It was seven times the 1943 pension of 27 shillings a week). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the remarks made by  Senator Wheeldon  tonight. I want to speak about the trial of George Fernandes that started in India today. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, George Fernandes is  Chairman  of the Socialist Party of India and he is also the National Secretary of the Indian Railway Workers union. It is very important to point out at this time that in all the period Fernandes has been in gaol the Indian Railway Workers Union has refused to appoint anybody as National Secretary in his place. This is the esteem in which he is held by the men with whom he used to work. He has been charged by the Indian Government with anti-national activities. He appeared in court today in chains. He has also been charged with sabotage and on other counts that really amount to sedition. The matter of Fernandes 's imprisonment and trial is of concern to many members of the Senate, especially those of us who have just returned from the visit to India about which  Senator Wheeldon  just spoke. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, we raised this question with  Mrs Gandhi.  Whilst she spent a great deal of time with our delegation- in fact, over one hour- her answers about Fernandes were unsatisfactory as far as we were concerned. 
The treatment of George Fernandes 's mother and his brothers is also something that should concern us all. I have a letter dated 24 May from the mother of George Fernandes to the  President  of India which sets out the sort of treatment that she and her 2 sons received while the Indian police were looking for George Fernandes. It ought to be pointed out at this stage that the mother and the 2 brothers- a catholic family from Kerala have had nothing to do with the career of George Fernandes but they have suffered, and suffered very badly, at the hands of the Indian police. I seek leave to have this letter incorporated in  Ilansard 
Will the Minister for Education offer an assurance that the Government is not planning to reinstitute fees for all forms of tertiary education in Australia, particularly for students undertaking undergraduate degree courses at a university level? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security a question concerning transport assistance for the handicapped. Can she give some indication whether the Government accepts the recommendation of poverty commissioner the Reverend George Martin for the repeal of the sales tax exemption on new cars purchased for the purpose of transporting handicapped working people to and from employment? He recommends in its place the payment of a transport allowance to handicapped persons unable to use public transport, and the provision of subsidy on a $4 to $ 1 basis for the purchase of a car for travel to and from work. As the present provisions are too narrow to enable handicapped persons seeking work to purchase a new car, even if it were financially possible, will she investigate this as a matter of urgency, since persons who are both disabled and unemployed find the present position frustrating and demoralising? 
Fernandes 's trial begins today. We found out when we were in India that the Government plans to call 257 witnesses to press its case against Fernandes. It would appear that the Government is determined to prosecute him successfully. I believe, and I know  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Robertson  share my point of view, that this case will be a litmus test for civil liberties in India. I believe we should be watching a number of things. We should be watching the extent to which Fernandes is allowed access to legal advice even though  Mrs Gandhi  told us that he will be able to get legal advice from overseas. We ought to be looking at whether or not he is able to call his defence witnesses freely. We ought to be looking at the capacity or lack of capacity on the part of the Press to report the trial proceedings. I point out that the  Indian Express,  a newspaper that we were all reading less than a fortnight ago, has today been closed down. The charge against the  Indian Express  is that its rates were not paid. 
We ought to look at the conduct of -the prosecution, the credibility of the witnesses, the objectivity of the court, the final verdict and the grounds for reaching that verdict. In short, I believe that Indian democratic freedoms are in the dock with George Fernandes today. All those committed to democratic principles in this Parliament should be concerned about it. At a time when Amnesty International identifies abuse of basic human rights in 1 12 countries- India is one of those countries- all Australians should be watching the current situation in India. Should Fernandes be convicted, I believe it will be another stage reached in the erosion of civil liberties in that country. 
I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  will take a moral stand on the Fernandes case and will press the Indian Government for his early and unconditional release from detention. I also believe that all senators should hope that the Indian state of emergency will be lifted, that freedom of the Press, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly and association will be restored and that the national elections that are set down for February 1977 will take place. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Treasurer in his opening address to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party on 3 1 July 1 976 assert that if zero wage indexation were introduced in Australia during the current financial year, there would be an additional 25 000 jobs created in 1976-77; if so, on what possible basis was such a hypothetical calculation made. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. In view of the unemployment situation, which is steadily worsening, and considering the commendable initiative taken by the New South Wales Government in allocating $20m specifically for a public works program which will create 3800 additional jobs, can the Minister say why similar action cannot be undertaken at a Federal level? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Defence agree with the statement made by the Deputy Premier of New South Wales on 10 October 1976 to the effect that a viable shipbuilding industry is vital to Australia's defence capabilities? If so, will the Government ensure the continued operation of this most necessary industry in the cities of Newcastle and Whyalla? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of an article published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Saturday, 9 October, concerning the difficulties being experienced by the Australian Chess Federation in sending a team to Israel for the world chess olympiad? Is the Minister aware that due to Government policies regarding overseas air travel, the Australian Chess Federation has been unable to take advantage of an offer by El-Al Israel Airlines Ltd of a 50 per cent discount on air fares and has encountered considerable difficulty in raising additional money to meet the team's travelling expenses? Will the Government consider giving practical assistance to this organisation to enable it to send a team to Israel? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that under the Tertiary Education Assistance scheme arrangements a student will be eligible for a full independent allowance only if he or she has been in the work force or unemployed for a period of 2 years? If that is so, what is the purpose of that stipulation? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of reports that suggest that Australia might accept up to 100 000 immigrants from Rhodesia following the Nationalist assumption of power in Rhodesia? Has the Minister received any approaches by Australian commercial interests seeking to bring such potential immigrants to settle in Australia? 
We are debating a Bill for an Act to establish an Advisory Council for Inter Government Relations. May I firstly say that I was very pleased to hear  Senator Martin  say tonight that she did not agree with the stand taken by the Queensland Government on this issue. I applaud her for that statement. This Bill is part of the Government's efforts to give legislative effect to its federalism policies- policies that have already been revealed to have flaws and to be potentially damaging to government and administration in this country, policies which are the product of rigid and inflexible dogmatism. As  Senator Colston  said earlier, already the federalism policy of this Government has been rejected by the electors of New South Wales at the only election at which the policy was specifically in issue. It is highly likely that early in 1977 when the electors of Tasmania and Western Australia have the opportunity to pass judgment on the new federalism these people too will reject it out of hand. I would certainly hope that in Tasmania and Western Australia the federalism policy becomes an issue in the State elections. 
The Australian people resent being deceived and misled over this policy. This is precisely how the Government is behaving in concealing its real aims in the Federal-State arena of politics. The new federalism actually means that the Australian Government will refuse to accept its responsibilities for meeting the human and social needs of the people. I refer to health, education, welfare, the environment, urban improvement and transport. This is the real thrust of the federalism policies, and no amount of obstruction can conceal this from the people for too long. We have seen evidence already presented to us in the Fraser Budget. The heaviest cutbacks in allocations for  works  and services were in the areas of State and local government. So much for cooperative federalism. The States funds for capital works were reduced by a total of $129m. This affects schools, roads, hospitals, housing and sewerage. In fact it affects the whole social infrastructure of our nation. The quality of services provided by the States in this area will thus be either poorer than it was under the Labor Government or the States will be obliged to raise additional taxes and charges to meet their needs. 
I realise that honourable senators opposite will probably say that the New South Wales Labor Government recently balanced its Budget and did not increase taxes. But I wonder what the position will be next year if the necessary funds are not allocated by the Federal Government. By comparison, the position of local government is even worse than that of the States. Funds for local government have been reduced this year by some $85m, and this will have quite severe consequences. It will cause great hardship and dislocation, particularly in rural areas, as many local government works programs funded by the Labor Government were providing employment opportunities. In particular the Regional Employment Development scheme was doing this.The consequences of these cutbacks will be particularly severe in rural areas of New South Wales where there are often 600 persons unemployed for every job available. I just want to give some figures on unemployment in rural areas of New South Wales. In Lithgow unemployment rose by 96 per cent in the 12 months to July 1 976. In Bathurst it rose by 50 per cent, in Cessnock by 43 per cent and in Dubbo and Casino by over 30 per cent. These are just some of the examples of the situation in rural areas in New South Wales. 
No amount of rhetoric from the Government benches on the need for an Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations can conceal the hard facts of the current state of Federal-State relations in Australia as a result of the Government's economic and social policies. What is needed is co-operative federalism as was in evidence during the years from 1972 to 1975 under the Australian Labor Government. During these years the Australian Government willingly shouldered its responsibilities in the vital social areas that are close to all Australians- that is, health, welfare, housing, urban and regional development, and education. Under the Labor Government grants to the States were increased by 20 per cent in 1973, by 50 per cent in 1974 and by 30 per cent in 1975. The States were thus placed in the position of being able to meet their responsibilities. Federal-State co-operation produced landmarks in progressive reforms. The first was Medibank in the field of health care. What honourable senators are seeing at the moment in Medibank is the calm before the storm. I have been to a number of meetings in New South Wales recently and I can say that the confusion concerning Medibank and the new health insurance arrangements is absolutely staggering. Another landmark was in the form of growth centres in the field of urban and regional development. In 1975-76 Albury-Wodonga was allocated $35m. This amount has been slashed to $15m in 1976-77. The 1975-76 allocation of $ 15.7m for Macarthur has been slashed in 1976-77 to $2m. The allocation of $8.3m for Bathurst-Orange in 1975-76 has been cut to $2m in 1976-77. This in a very important sectorurban and regional development. Another example was the national estate. 
Co-operative federalism meant that the national Government was prepared to assist the States in fulfilling their obligations. It was prepared to assist in providing services to the people in areas that had long been neglected or overlooked. Federalism under the Labor Government meant that local government was acknowledged as the third tier of government. Local government became involved in planning and implementing major reform programs. Not only has the present coalition Government with the bringing on of this legislation just realised that local government administration exists but also it has in fact consistently striven to exclude local government from discussions and deliberations on inter-governmental relations in the post-war period, especially in the area of finance. For example, in 1974 the Liberal-National Country Party coalition opposed the right of local government to participate in Loan Council meetings. It is not always that I agree with  Sir Eric  Willis, the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales, but I think he acknowledged the proper role of local government when speaking at a meeting of the Liberal Club at the University of New South Wales on 22 September 1976 when he said in essence that the role of local government should be defined by constitutional amendment. He said the Constitution should define Federal, State and local government areas of responsibility. What the coalition did in 1974 is one example in a long list of occasions on which the Liberal and National Country Parties refused to acknowledged the legitimate claims of local government representatives to participate fully in the workings of public administration. 
The Bill before the chamber does nothing to improve the position of local government with regard to finance and autonomous endeavours. Genuine co-operative and successful federalism can only flourish if all levels of administration have ready access to the payments which they need to meet their requirements and fulfil their responsibilities to their constituents. Under the Labor Administration between 1972 and 1975 this was the case. Let us look at the Australian Assistance Plan. The Australian Government used its powers under the Constitution to make direct grants to local government. This was opposed by the Liberal-National Country Party governments in Victoria, New South Wales and Western Australia. I am pleased to say that it was opposed unsuccessfully, because the Australian Assistance Plan was a great social welfare innovation. It achieved a true devolution of power to the local level in Australia. It allowed people at the regional level to decide for themselves what services they wanted to build in their community, such as sporting, cultural and educational facilities, welfare services and health centres. 
In my own area- the Manly- Warringah area of Sydney- one of the pilot schemes for the Australian Assistance Plan was established. We are very disappointed about what has happened to the plan, as is the  chairman  of the local AAP who happens to be the Liberal member of the Legislative Assembly for the area. The Australian Assistance Plan resulted in a dramatic improvement in the quality and level of services provided by government to people in many disadvantaged areas of Australia 's cities. It was a landmark of co-operative inter-governmental relations. The AAP was evidence of a real devolution of power away from Canberra to regions right throughout Australia. It did more to decentralise government than a host of advisory councils would be able to do. The AAP was destroyed. I raised a question on this matter in the Senate on 18 February 1976. 1 asked the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  what would be the future of the Australian Assistance Plan. I will not read the whole of the answer, but at the end of her reply she said: 
The concern which the honourable senator has referred to could, I think, be only concern, understanding that there will be an opportunity for evaluation and review early in May. 
Unfortunately that concern which I expressed turned out to be real. The fact that this Government destroyed the AAP says more about its attitude towards federalism than anything else it has done since coming to power. It ranks with the emasculation of Medibank, the abandonment of the growth centres and the ending of the National Estate program as testimony to this Government's total bankruptcy on the issue of federalism. But the conservatives have always had a disastrous record on federalism. For an example we have only to look back as far as 1 974 when honourable senators opposite boycotted the Australian Constitutional Convention. Was this not a totally negative outlook and attitude on the matter? I believe that they have done nothing since to change that attitude. This legislation has already produced evidence that this negative attitude still dominates the thinking of Liberal and National Country Party members. 
I note, as has been mentioned earlier, that the Premier of Queensland has announced that he will have nothing to do with the Advisory Council and that Queensland will boycott its operations.  Senator Colston  quoted extensively tonight from the Premier's Conference of last April. I will not take up the time of the Senate by quoting that again but I just want to comment on it. When one looks at what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said at that Premier's Conference one can see that he was desperately worried that the States- or his State in particular- might lose their traditional domination over local government. He seems determined to deny local government any independence whatsoever. I believe that this is just one more example of the senseless wrangling that occurs in this country as a result of the new federalism policy, of the needless bickering that characterises intergovernmental relations under this coalition Government. 
In many respects there is really no need for this Advisory Council to be established. Sufficient machinery is already available for consultation and deliberation between the tiers of government in Australia. There is the Premiers Conference, the Loan Council and the Inter-State Commission which I would point out was reestablished by the Federal Labor Administration but which has not yet been proclaimed by this Government. Those bodies should prove adequate to service the needs of intergovernmental relations. In many ways the Advisory Council will prove extraneous. 
This Bill has many apparent weaknesses.  Senator Douglas  McClelland speaking earlier in this debate listed some of them. If I repeat them, that will only serve to highlight the situation. 
Firstly, it is not specified when the Advisory Council will be established. Secondly, we do not know who its members will be. Thirdly, it is a body without any real powers and has only an advisory capacity. Fourthly, its charter has not yet been revealed. Fifthly, nowhere are we informed as to whether its inquiries and the results of those inquiries will be made public. Lastly, the Council's secretariat will duplicate functions already being performed adequately by other bodies such as the Centre for InterGovernmental Studies at the Australian National University. In my opinion, these are the main weaknesses of the legislation. 
The Government spokesmen in the second reading debate have informed us that the Advisory Council is modelled on the United States Advisory Commission which was established in 1959. However, I think it should be realised that the United States Advisory Commission is in no respect either a powerful or influential institution within the framework of American administration. I understand that it is a relatively powerless body which does not figure prominently in the workings of the American federal system. I wonder whether we can expect the Advisory Council to be similar. Will it merely be cosmetic in its approach to federalism? The plain fact of the matter is that Australia does not really need this Advisory Council. What Australia and the Australian people need is a co-operative approach to federalism and the functioning of government administration right throughout this country. What is needed is for the national Government to acknowledge its responsibilities and to take steps in co-operation with State and local government administrations to meet those responsibilities. In short, the Liberal-National Country Party Government should model its efforts on those of the Federal Labor Government in this field over the preceding 3 years, because during that period all levels of administration in Australia were provided with ample funds to fulfil their obligations in the way of providing services. 
It would seem to me that the current thrust of the Fraser Government's policies is away from co-operative federalism, is away from regionalism and is heading towards greater confrontation with the States and with local government. The new federalism in no way contributes to progress or to the advancement of greater welfare for the Australian people. Having pointed out what I think are the main weaknesses in the legislation, I acknowledge the fact, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland and other speakers have said earlier, that the Opposition is not opposing this Bill but will be moving amendments to it at a later stage. 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the uncertainty that has been generated in the Australian car manufacturing industry by the Government's indecision with regard to the level of restrictions that should be placed on imported vehicles? Is the Minister further aware that such uncertainty is the direct result of his announcement that the subject of import restrictions has been referred back to the Industries Assistance Commission less than 12 months after the Commission reported on this issue? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is the Government considering convening a meeting of Federal and State Ministers to deal with the objections to its federalism program raised by at least 4 Premiers? Does the Minister consider that the objections over the Government's centralist tendencies mean that its attitude towards Federal-State relations needs modifying? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports that Indonesia has threatened military intervention in Papua New Guinea in order to suppress allegedly communist political movements? Is the Minister further aware that the Commander of the Papua New Guinea Defence Forces, Brigadier-General Ted Diro, was informed by Indonesian authorities in Jakarta that they considered both the Bougainville Secessionist Movement and the Papua Independence Movement to be communist influenced? Is the Minister prepared, in the light of these developments, to state that Australia will always act to protect the political and territorial integrity of Papua New Guinea from external threats of aggression ? 
I do not disagree with the comments that have just been made by  Senator Sim  about the procedures that were adopted by Estimates Committee A but I should like to carry on with some of the remarks that were made by my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, dealing with division 133 of the Estimates for the Australian Electoral Office. Even though I raised some questions on these matters I think that something further should be added at this time. When one looks at division 133 one sees that the appropriation for 1976-77 is approximately $ 10.5m as opposed to last year's expenditure of $15m. I realise that an election of either the House of Representatives or this chamber is not scheduled for this year so naturally there would be a reduction. But the matter that I wish to raise tonight is the electoral provisions for election of senators and therefore the departmental costs involved as dealt with in division 133. As honourable senators would know, I was elected as the tenth senator from New South Wales after the first complete recount that has taken place since the present system was introduced in 1948. Whilst the electoral legislation was probably suitable in 1948, I am of the opinion that it is badly in need of reform in 1976. Therefore I was amazed when earlier this year on 16 March  Senator Baume  directed a question without notice on this matter to the Minister for Administrative Services.  Senator Baume  asked: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister Tor Administrative Services, relates to the recent election for 10 senators for New South Wales in which there was an initial count and a recount. Is it a fact that on a recount of almost 2.8 million votes only some 10 000 votes changed hands? Did the majority for, the successful candidate for the last Senate seat in New South Wales change only from 800 to some 2000 votes in the recount? Is this not a tribute to officers of the Australian Electoral Office in New South Wales and to the Chief Electoral Officer for the State,  Mr L.  Noble, for the way in which the count and recount were conducted? Is it not a statement of confidence in the system under which Senate ballots are conducted in this country? 
I shall not quote what  Senator Withers  replied as it would take the time of the Senate but briefly what  Senator Withers  said was that he agreed with the suggestions contained in  Senator Baume  's question. I do not argue about the capacity of the electoral officers; what I do argue is that the system of election to the Senate at the moment places undue and needless strain on the staff of the Australian Electoral Office. At the last election in 1975 and previously in 1974 they were confronted with a huge task in determining which candidates would be successful in the Senate poll not only in New South Wales but also in other States. I question the cost of employing the additional staff. I also question the competence of that staff in a very difficult task. These people are employed in a temporary capacity to perform a very difficult task at a tremendous cost. 
The last Senate recount in New South Wales was of particular importance to everybody who sits in this chamber. It was not just the fact that 2 counts took place; it was the fact that 3 counts took place. There was the original count, that is, the preliminary count following the elections; then there was a recheck that took place over the Christmas holiday period; and, finally, as I said there was the first full recount under this system since 1948. The recount eventuated because  Senator Cotton  asked the electoral officer in New South Wales for a recount to take place. I do not blame  Senator Cotton  for doing this. I would have done so too if I had been the candidate defeated by 854 votes, as I think the result was at that stage. I happen to be the one who won, as  Senator Lajovic  knows. I do not blame  Senator Cotton  for seeking that recount. Although  Senator Baume  says that only 10 000 votes changed hands, I think the system under which we are operating needs an overhaul. The 10 000 votes to which  Senator Baume  referred were nearly all additional informal votes. Approximately 4500 votes were taken from the Liberal-Country Party total, 3600 were taken from the Australian Labor Party and 300 were taken from the Socialist Workers League which had been the recipient of the donkey vote. I submit that actually many more votes changed hands. A document entitled Election Statistics for New South Wales was given to all honourable senators recently. It shows that in the recount it was found that votes had been credited to the wrong candidates. I had scrutineers ringing me up and saying that a bundle of 50 or 100 votes credited to the LiberalCountry Party should have been mine, and vice versa. Of course these tended to cancel out when we consider New South Wales as a whole. 
As I said, many more than 10 000 votes were involved. Also when we are talking about 10 000 informal votes that were wiped out, we have to consider that scrutineers reported that many informal votes that originally were put out of the ballot were then put back into the ballot. So we are talking about a figure much larger than the figure to which  Senator Baume  referred. When we consider that the final vote which elected the last senator, who happened to be myself, showed a majority of 2016, those 10 000 plus votes tend to assume rather critical significance. I submit again that if the votes were recounted today the totals would probably be altered because of the near impossible task given to the officials of the Australian Electoral Office in scrutinising the votes of 53 candidates in the Senate election in 1975 and, perhaps even worse, the votes for 73 candidates who stood for New South Wales in 1 974.I think it should be mentioned also that because there was a complete recount there was also a new random sample. Again I submit that even if not one additional informal vote had been found, if not one wrong vote had been found credited to any candidate, the result must have been different because of our system of counting with random sample. 
Any procedure that involves a ballot on 13 December 1975, the counting for which is not completed until 6 February 1976, certainly must be in need of review. I say that the task of governing Australia is far too important to be delayed for months on end while polls are finalised. I think it is quite relevant that these matters should be discussed today when one considers the United States Presidential elections. Although the people of the United States went to the polls only yesterday or early this morning Australian time, probably nearly all the votes for governors and senators have been counted, and with perhaps 80 million votes to be counted, the new  President  of the United States is probably known. Yet here in Australia, as I said, we waited from 13 December 1975 until 6 February 1976 to get the decision for one senator in our Parliament. I think the main cause for this delay stems from our exhaustive preferential system of voting. 
If there is to be electoral reform, I think we should eliminate the system we have at the moment and go for optional preferential voting. The book on election statistics that was given out in this place the other day showed a farcical situation in that the preferences of the Social 
Workers League, which is a Trotskyite organisation, drifted to the Liberal-Country Party because of its position on the ballot paper and because the people in New South Wales were forced to fill out 53 squares. If we look at the donkey vote and at those statistics, we find that 22 230 votes drifted directly across to the Liberal Party. But in fact the drift was much more than that because 2302 votes went to the Family Action Movement, 474 went to the Democratic Labor Party and 233 went to the Workers Party. This meant that the donkey vote was over 25 000 in New South Wales at that last election. I think one can reliably conclude from this evidence that at least 25 000 of the voters in New South Wales at the last Senate poll were intent on and serious about filling out their ballot paper but saw a lengthy and confusing ballot paper placed in front of them and tried to fill it out as quickly as possible and still comply with the Electoral Act. 
This is one of the things I am questioning. They did not have any real desire to vote for the Socialist Workers League; they just wanted to fill out that ballot paper. As I said, perhaps 25 000 people voted in that way. But from scrutineers' reports I have received it appears that supporters of both major parties, that is, the LiberalCountry Party and the Australian Labor Party, made serious mistakes on the allocation of preferences on their ballot papers with the result that the donkey vote was much more than 25 000. I remember that when the LiberalCountry Party ticket came out I thought it was a very good ticket because on the ticket they had the House of Representatives candidates on the lefthand side and the Senate candidates on the righthand side. My scrutineers reported that some hundreds, possibly thousands, of people in New South Wales went down the House of Representatives side of the ticket and then went to the Senate side, making their vote informal. This cost the Government Parties thousands of votes. 
But the Australian Labor Party also made a mistake. Because of ideological preferences we left the Workers Party until last. This meant that people moved across the ballot paper to the righthand side, came back to the lefthand side and finished their votes with the Australian Labor Party. They thought they had completed their ballot paper whereas, of course, they had not done so- they had left a blank column. I would say that some thousands of people did this. So both sides certainly paid, and I suppose both political parties will look at this again in the future. 
If we go for an optional preferential system I think we would reduce the informal vote which the figures show amounted to 9.7 per cent. The vast number of informal votes I have talked about did show a clear intention to vote for one party or the other. Those voters, I feel, were disqualified unnecessarily. Malcolm Mackerras, who is regarded is something of an expert in these matters, has mentioned informal voting. Quite recently in a book he stated: 
The present Senate voting system discriminates against migrants and poorly educated people- and this should concern all of us. 
I agree. I think the Australian Labor Party could have won the sixth Senate seat in New South Wales in 1974 and altered the course of Australian history, it it had not been for the complicated Senate ballot paper. If we go back also to 1974 and look at the Queensland ballot paper, we find that my colleague who now sits in this place,  Senator Mal  Colston, would probably h ave been elected had it not been for these extreme measures that are needed to fill out the ballot paper. 
A number of things have been raised about what should be done in a Senate election. It has been suggested that the deposit required of Senate candidates should be raised to $1,000, This would eliminate some of the nonsense candidates who appeared in 1974 and in the last Senate election. It has been suggested also- I think  Senator Mulvihill  has raised this matter in the Senate before- that in order to be nominated a person should have a certain number of nominators from every Federal electorate division in New South Wales. As I said earlier, I think optional preferential voting should be introduced. Probably one other point at which the Australian Electoral Office and the Minister should look at is the confusion that arises from the fact that people do not know when looking at a complicated ballot paper for which party they are voting. I think that party affiliations could be shown on the ballot paper. This would help everybody. More than 40 countries now follow this practice, including West Germany, Austria, Italy and Ireland. They show the names of parties on the ballot paper and therefore cut the informal vote. This practice, if followed, would particularly assist migrants. 
Regarding the Department of Administrative Services, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has already mentioned, we should be looking at computers. At the same time I think we should be investigating the use of voting machines. Again I do not want to dwell on what is happening in the United States of America today but it is an example of how millions of votes can be computed quickly. I raise this issue because of my concern about the cost involved in not only a recheck but also a recount of the Senate vote. I feel that the present system becomes so complicated that it is not understood by the vast majority of voters or, for the reasons I have stated, becomes something of a lottery in a close contest. Not only does the system come into disrepute but also the reputation - 
I did not intend to speak on division 520 which refers to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation; but, now that the matter has been raised by  Senator Mulvihill,  I will do so. I accept what the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said, namely, that the figures concerning this matter have never been given in the past; but I am worried by some of the points raised by  Senator McLaren  during the hearings of the Estimates Committee about trust accounts and how the budget for Australian Security Intelligence Organisation balances every year. I do not think we have received a satisfactory answer. If one looks at what has happened recently in the United States I think one will see that, had there been a proper surveillance or an earlier surveillance of the Central Intelligence Agency, the congressional inquiries into that organisation that have been going on for the past 12 months or 2 years would not have occurred. In the parliamentary recess, when I was in the United States, I had the opportunity to talk to Representative Otis Pike who was one of the leading members of the congressional inquiry into the CIA. One of the strong points he made was that, in his opinion, had there been proper surveillance of the funds being spent by intelligence agencies in America at an earlier date perhaps the present situation in the United States would not have arisen. I raise that point only to say that, although I realise what has been the practice in the past, perhaps in the future there could be some way by which we could have a closer look at what is happening with respect to intelligence agencies. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will the Minister give an assurance that in all decisions aimed at restructuring the Australian Broadcasting Commission the principle of staff representation on the board of commissioners will be maintained? 
I present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 58 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised; 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
a) The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Lands Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 197S Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both houses of parliament. (!) A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the light of figures cited by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which estimates that real farm income will decline by 36 per cent over the next 12 months, can the Minister say what action the Government is considering taking to relieve the critical situation which now confronts most sections of Australia's primary industries? 
I am very pleased that tonight  Senator Messner  supports the principle of the trade union movement. He referred to what Neville Wran, the Premier of New South Wales, said today about the trade union movement and about strikes.  Mr Wran  said that there ought to be fewer unions with larger membership.  Senator Messner  said that this was centralisation. I think  Senator Messner  ought to look at the DGB which is the West German trade union movement. There are 16 unions in West Germany. Each of those unions has a huge membership. West Germany has the lowest rate of strikes of any country in western Europe. It certainly has a centralised union system. The system was set up after the occupation of West Germany by the Allied Forces. The British trade union movement was consulted at the time. It was asked to set up what it thought was a perfect system. Time has proved the British trade union movement right. There are only 16 unions for the whole of West Germany. 
This legislation seeks to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect of the method of electing officers of registered organisations- both trade union and employer organisations. This Government proposes to reintroduce the collegiate system for the election of officers as an alternative to the direct vote of the total membership. We believe that this is a retrograde step. We in the Opposition oppose these amendments as they are at variance with our commitment to a proper democratic control of trade unions and all organisations, whether they be employer or employee organisations. We stand for the right of the rank and file trade unionists to elect their full time officials, because these full time officials represent the interests of the rank and file in the work place, in the arbitration courts or in their meetings with government. The full time officials are the administrators of the trade unions. Surely they should be the people responsible to their own rank and file, not people espousing what could be a minority view imposed on the rank and file by some form of collegiate voting. 
The previous Labor Government's commitment to democratic control of trade unions prompted the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1973 which have been referred to and which provided direct election of full time officials. It is interesting to note, as  Senator Button  brought out in his speech, that the then Opposition did not raise objections at the time. No criticism was made of the method of electing trade union officials then. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  who was then the Liberal Party spokesman on industrial relations, acknowledged the commitment to industrial democracy which was in our 1973 legislation. In fact, the relevant clause of the 1 973 legislation which provided for the direct election of union officials was agreed to by the Opposition in the 
Committee stage in both Houses- I stress thiswithout debate. 
However, a lot has happened since 1973. Firstly, the present Government went on a union-bashing campaign during the last election campaign. It said that secret postal voting for trade union officials would destroy communist militants' influence in the union movement. We remember the advertisements at the time. It was said that the careers of the Halfpennys and the Carmichaels would be finished. This was despite the fact that many unions in this country have had secret postal ballots for years and still elect persons who are, in the eyes of the present Government, left wing militant trade union officials. One should look at the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, for example, and at the percentage of members who vote in that union's elections. It is very high indeed. The present Government did not realise that the people who were really opposed to secret postal ballots were people such as  Mr Maynes  and other National Civic Council trade union officials who were scared that they would lose their positions. 
I will give you his record in a minute. He was worried about losing his position if he had to face the rank and file. 

 - Senator Harradine says that  Mr Maynes  faced it IS times. He has not been elected to the Federal Council of his union for 22 years. He has not had to face the rank and file in his present position since 19S4. 
-Seeing that  Senator Harradine  is so worried about this man, I will read from an affidavit. 
You will get the truth. This is an affidavit put before the Australian Industrial Court by  Mr Raymond  Clarke. He said: 
The Federal  President  of the Organisation, John Peter Maynes, was elected to the Federal Council in approximately 1950 in an election by the Victorian Branch membership as a whole. Since 1954  Mr Maynes  has continuously acted as Federal  President  of the Organisation, having been reelected to the said position in 1956, 1958, 1960, 1962, 1964, 1966, 1968, 1970, 1972 and 1974 by the members of Federal Council pursuant to Rule 23(1) of the Rules of the Organisation. Although remaining at ali times qualified to nominate as a candidate for election to the position of Federal  President  pursuant to Rule 22 (2) (d) (ti)  Mr Maynes  has not been required by the existing Rules to re-submit himself as a candidate for election to the position of Federal Councillor at any time since he first assumed office as Federal  President  in 1954. 
That is exactly what I said. 
-Seeing that  Senator Harradine  is so interested in  Mr Maynes,  I will now quote from the November issue of  The  Clerk,  which is put out by the Central and Southern Queensland Branch of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia. The Branch Secretary,  Mr Forrester,  said: 
If the above is not enough to demonstrate to members - 
That is of his union- that the Federal Office of this Union is being run by an outside clique, the leader of whom has personally boasted to the writer that he is a millionaire, then let me state one further situation. 
Earlier this year, John Grenville advised me that when he was elected he was not a member of the Clerics' Union and was not eligible to run. The Victorian Branch records were falsified to secure his election. I have not made these allegations, nor has your Branch of the Union. They were made by a long term member of the National Civic Council. His allegations are important in that they run to the validity of decisions made by meetings in which he participated. Grenville went a step further and identified John Maynes, the Federal President of this Union, as being the person responsible for this falsification. 
As your Branch Secretary, and as a member of the Federal Council and the Federal Executive of this Union, I have raised this matter on a number of occasions with Terry Sullivan who purports to be the Federal Secretary of the Union now. I have asked him to investigate the allegations. I have not prejudged them, but they clearly and obviously require investigation to determine their truth or otherwise. I have had no practical response from  Mr Sullivan. 
With the full support of your Branch Executive, I have referred these very serious allegations to the Commonwealth Attorney General, the  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott, Q.C. At the time of writing, I am waiting for a reply. 
I think everybody, including  Senator Harradine,  would be interested to hear the reply to that. 
You will have your opportunity tomorrow. The NCC has lobbied the Federal Government intensively this year to retain the collegiate system of voting. We saw all sorts of vested interests also in employer organisations because they wanted a collegiate system of electing officials. Together these powerful forces obliged this Government to change tack and to reintroduce collegiate voting for industrial organisations. If this legislation achieves this, it will mean that minority groups, often of extremist leanings either to the Left or to the Right, will be able to exercise control over important industrial organisations without ever being subject to the democratic pressure of rank and file elections. 
This is where we come to the joke of the whole situation, because the collegiate system of voting serves also to entrench communist militants such as  Mr Carmichael,  who on 5 May this year in the communist newspaper  Tribune  drew attention to the fact that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union might opt for the collegiate system. He said that if the union did this the national  president  could be elected by 0.02 per cent of the membership. So much for union democracy. In fact, as  Senator Button  said earlier, with the 1 5 per cent proviso now  Mr Carmichael  will probably never have to face election again from the rank and file. 
Is  Senator Harradine  disputing the fact that 0.02 per cent could elect  Mr Carmichael? 
-I did not say that  Mr Carmichael  was elected by a collegiate system. I said that  Mr Carmichael  said in the  Tribune  that his union might opt for the collegiate system. 
You read it in  Hansard  tomorrow. It will say: 'Might opt for the collegiate system'. 
-I do not intend - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-Order!  I like to allow a bit of free discussion, but I think my tolerance has been abused.  Senator Sibraa  will continue. 
I now turn to another union and a reverse situation. I think even  Senator Harradine  would say that the New South Wales branch of the liquor trades union would be described as a moderate trade union. In 1970 the New South Wales State executive of that union was controlled by Communist Party members and their supporters. This situation was changed by a court-controlled ballot after a 31 -day court case established that falsified ballot-papers were used in a previous election. In fact, the present Premier of New South Wales, Neville Wran, and my parliamentary colleague  Senator James  McClelland, acted and appeared for the Australian Labor Party members led by  Mr John  Morris in that court case. Those people subsequently took control of the union. Previously a union member who wanted a vote had to apply for a ballot-paper and prove that he could not attend the meeting where the voting was to take place, with the result that some elections for the New South Wales branch were held and decided by under 200 members, not under Electoral Office control. After the John Morris team took over that union the rules were changed. Every member received a ballot-paper and the Commonwealth Electoral Office controlled the ballot. Union membership in New South Wales grew from 24 000 then to approximately 60 000 this year. In 1973 the union changed its rules at a federal level under the legislation that was brought in by the Labor Government, and now all paid federal officials are voted for in a rank and file Australia-wide ballot. There are approximately 80 000 members of that union who now get a ballot-paper. What could have happened if the union had not changed its rules? A collegiate body of 20 could have elected the officials. If a collegiate system of 20 existed over 50 per cent of the membership could have been given no say at a federal level. This might not have happened, but it could have happened. I wonder who among honourable senators opposite would have wanted a situation in which the 60 000 members in New South Wales did not get a say because of a collegiate system. 
It is quite obvious from what has been said in other places that this Government went to great lengths to protect the NCC in the trade union movements. It knew that the NCC influence in the trade union movement could be destroyed if its candidates were forced to face a direct voting system. It would also appear, as  Senator Button  said, that  Mr Maynes  knew well in advance of the introduction of these amendments that his position would be protected by collegiate voting. He said as much to the Industrial Registrar in the middle of this year. Of course,  Mr Maynes  has a great deal at stake in ensuring the continuance of collegiate voting. The Government is protecting his privileged position, but at the same time it is entrenching the very militants whom it was attacking in its election campaign. 

 Senator Button also made the point that this legislation permits appointments of officers without recourse to rank and file ballots. I submit that this serves to further entrench controlling factions, whether they be to the Left or to the Right. Therefore it preserves the position of those union officials about whom this Government is always complaining. One only has to look, for example, to somebody who wins a minor position in a union, say an assistant secretary's job, who does not like the general secretary so he gets the numbers and appoints somebody as an administrative officer, a clerical assistant or whatever and takes over the union because of this loophole that has been left. The legislation does not provide for rank and file choice of the system of voting which is to be used in electing its officials. This decision is made only by the leadership of the unions. Again, so much for democratic control. Therefore this legislation runs counter to our commitment to full rank and file participation in the affairs of the trade union movement. The rank and file should decide the system of electing its officials. After all, the unions are their own organisations. 
The introduction of this legislation makes a mockery of the Government's commitment to consultations with trade unions when industrial legislation is mooted, because the unions were not given prior warning of the introduction of this legislation, nor were they given time to consider its ramifications. The unions were merely informed that the legislation was going through. Three days later the Government brought the Bill into the Parliament. There was no consultation. 
In fact, the Government had no reason to want to consult with trade unions on this legislation as it knew of the widespread opposition to it. People had visited Canberra and talked to the Government's own committee about this. 
-That is right. The Government wishes only to consult with extreme right wing officials of the NCC, an organisation which aims to destroy the trade union movement.  Senator Harradine  talked about people who came to Canberra and gave evidence and about whether the trade unions were consulted, What about the evidence' that was given to this Government's own industrial committee by people such as Charlie Oliver, Barry Egan and John Forrester? 

 - Senator Walters can hardly accuse them of being extreme left wing militants. They came here and left thinking that they had received a fair hearing at the time and thinking that they would be consulted if there were to be major changes. In fact, they were given 3 days' notice before the major changes came along. That is the point I am making. 
The Opposition rejects this legislation for a number of definite reasons. Firstly, the Opposition considers the collegiate system which the legislation allows has the effect of depriving trade union members of electing their union officials by direct voting. Secondly, the collegiate system is open to abuse and manipulation by minority extremist groups in unions to entrench themselves and therefore remain permanently in control of those organisations. Thirdly, the Government's action in ensuring that such a system is retained reveals the emptiness of its commitment to internal trade union democracy. Fourthly, the Government's real concerns, as evidenced by this legislation are two-fold. Firstly, it is concerned to shore up the position of ultra right wing cliques in important unions such as the NCC and to place a buffer zone between them and rank and file ballots. Secondly and more importantly, it is concerned to preserve the position of those left wing union officials whom this Government likes to kick. This Government needs them so it can kick the whole of the trade union movement and bring it into disrepute. The Government's commitment to industrial democracy as shown by this legislation is nothing more than a sham. Like so many of its promises in the industrial relations field they are designed only for short term electoral support and not for the benefit of the workers of this country and the members of the trade union movement. 
I present the following pet  ition  from  1 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1 976 does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aborigines should not be penalised; 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill, 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses ofParliament. (0 A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of reports that suggest that officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service have been investigating the eligibility of people to receive unemployment benefit following anonymous complaints about them? Will he undertake to ensure that this practice, where it presently occurs, will be discontinued immediately? 
I want to raise a couple of matters with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack).  He mentioned correctly that I have referred to the West German trade union movement. What I was saying was that there should be fewer unions with more membership in those unions. Like the Minister I have had a look at the DGB, and I do not think that it is the perfect answer for Australia but it is a lot better than the system we have here at the moment. I want to take up  Senator Mulvihill  's point about the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association and I want to look at the situation of the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees Union. I think the latter union was amongst those which the Minister read out tonight as being those that have not complied with the rules. It may not have done so completely but in 1973 it changed its rules at the federal level so that all the members throughout Australia received a ballot paper in the rank and file election for their fully paid officers. 
This is where a ludicrous situation could occur. The membership of the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees Union in New South Wales at the time when it changed the rules had grown to approximately 60 000, which meant that it had over 70 per cent of the union's national membership. But if it had not changed its ruling and if it had a collegiate system it would have meant that the 70 per cent would be without any federal full-time officers. I realise that the union still has what it calls a federal council but it changed its rules to get over what would be a very serious situation. 

 Senator Harradine mentioned the situation concerning the secretary of one of the branches of the Federated Clerks Union in Queensland. He made some rather serious charges. I do not intend to try to answer those charges here tonight because I do not know the full facts. But I do know that the previous national secretary of the Federated Clerks Union,  Mr Egan,  went to a meeting of the federal council and was given from 2.30 p.m. on the Tuesday to 10.30 p.m. on the Friday to answer 2 charges. The first one was that approximately $130,000 of union funds had been misappropriated. The second charge was that he had set upon a course to destroy the union in New South Wales. It seems surprising to me- I realise that this matter has now gone to the Industrial Court- that every time any opposition arises to the present rules of the Federated Clerks Union these charges about misappropriation of funds are directed towards union officials. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The petition of certain parents and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we, the undersigned, declare that we are concerned at the increasingly alarming child care situation, where only one place is available for every 10 pre-school children and where, in New South Wales, only 184 out of the 891 childcare centres in existence offer long-day care for the children of working mothers, despite the changing socio-economic conditions in Australia and the increased numbers of working mothers. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that you make funds available urgently for long day care centres and that all funds allocated for child care be directed only to those child-care centres willing to provide long day care, preschool and after-school care, holiday care ana emergency day care for children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Are reports accurate that the Minister has refused to permit the department to participate in the forthcoming Austcare and Australian Council for Overseas Aid Conference on the problems associated with Rhodesian immigration to Australia? Is it a fact that the department originally agreed to send the First Assistant Secretary with a research paper to be delivered at the conference? What are the reasons for the Government's change in attitude? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister's statement delivered to the Stanford Research Institute in Sydney on the evening of 15 November 1976 in which he claimed that his Government was steadfastly opposed to devaluation, can the Minister inform the chamber what developments have taken place in less than a fortnight which have prompted the Government to devalue the Australian dollar by a massive 1 7.5 per cent? 
The purpose of the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer to guarantee loans raised by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of 3 Boeing 747 series aircraft. As my colleague  Senator Keeffe  said, we on this side of the chamber do not oppose the legislation. However, I want to take up some of the time of the Senate in defending Qantas against some of the attacks it has been coming under lately because these aircraft are being purchased at a time when, as I said, Qantas is coming under fire from its critics, not the least being spokesmen of this Government. Already the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  in another place have made attacks on Qantas Airways Ltd. We have also seen attacks from representatives of travel industry interests. This seems to be part of a world-wide trend; it seems to be a trend towards attacking the major international carriers. They are large and they are obvious targets for criticism for virtually anything from fare structures to services provided. 
That criticism, particularly of Qantas, emanates largely, I believe, from ill-informed sources. In Australia criticism of Qantas falls into the familiar pattern of the Government's attacks upon public enterprises, ranging from Medibank to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It stems from the Government's de-socialising mania, a mania which has not been seen in Australia since the Bruce-Page Administration in the 1 920s. The Government seems determined to discredit public enterprise by abuse and vilification. Hence the attack upon Qantas. Such attacks are blatantly wrong, as can be seen by examining the performance of our international airline. In terms of airline safety, Qantas runs second in the world, outshone only by TAP, the Portuguese airline, according to a recent survey which has just been published. In fact, Qantas is among the select group of airlines which have not had a fatality in over 10 years; in the case of Qantas, in more than 30 years. I quote 2 paragraphs from the October 1974 issue of a magazine called  Flight International.  The article reads: 
Australia has been described as a 'police state' as a result of the severity of its air-safety regulations and enforcement. Nevertheless it is one of the safest air-transport nations and the national flag carrier Qantas has not had a fatal accident in the last 28 years. Captain Ron Gillman recently visited Australia to discuss air safety with Qantas. 
Captain Gillman who wrote the article goes on to say: 
An airline which has operated for 28 years without a fatal accident has beaten the law of averages by such a wide margin that it cannot be a matter of chance; there must be a sound reason or reasons. 
I think that the reasons for this impressive safety record can be summed up in the phrase that is used in the most recent annual report of Qantas: Technical integrity'. There is no doubt that Qantas has developed a particularly fine system for training both its flight personnel and its servicing and maintenance crews. It should also be noted that the standards of Qantas in safety far exceed the minimum international requirements placed on other airlines. Naturally the maintenance of those standards involves increased costs, but the airline believes that it is worth it. The investment in training personnel has also paid dividends in terms of productivity. Productivity per employee has increased by more than 150 per cent during the last 10 years. Again that is revealed in the annual report of Qantas for 1975-76. 
Qantas has committed itself to a policy of safety above every other factor, inclusive of cost. Some other international carriers do not observe that principle and they pay dearly for it. In fact, one such airline which operates into Australia tried at one time to cut costs by reducing the safety margin. It has taken that airline years to recover from the terrible circumstances that resulted from that decision. However, some Government spokesmen are now suggesting that Qantas should pursue such a course. If adopted that would entail serious dangers to air travellers. The article in the magazine  Flight International  goes on to say: 
In airlines where the primary question is 'can it be effective? flight-operations managers and those concerned with safety find it hard to justify expenditure on training and equipment. This is particularly true when there is a lack of sympathy or understanding at director level. I once heard an executive say that his airline could afford to have one fatal accident every seven years. Although this may have been statistically accurate, the idea is morally abhorrent and an attitude such as this must militate against any improvement in safety standards. 
In the light of that comment I think it is again pertinent to quote another extract from the article entitled 'Safety is no accident' which appears in the October issue of the magazine  Flight International.  The article goes on to say:   the fine record that Qantas enjoys is attributable to a management which is not prepared to narrow safety margins in the cause of economic expedience, an engineering division that follows this example, an operations branch with the right policies, and a training organisation with the expertise and integrity . . . 
If anything, those words are even more relevant in 1976 than they were when written and printed in 1 974. The safety record of Qantas is far better today than it was then. 
I now want to discuss the quality of service that Qantas provides for its passengers. Some 
Government spokesmen have suggested that the in-flight service provided by Qantas is poor and that many Australians prefer to travel with other carriers or that many foreign passengers avoid our airline. That is simply untrue. If one looks again at the 1975-76 annual report of Qantas and at the statistics one finds the fact of the matterthat is that Qantas handles 45 per cent of all air traffic that comes into this country. I think that statistic indicates the airline's success and popularity. Moreover, a recent survey of Qantas passengers taken over the 12 months ending 31 March 1976 revealed that 76 per cent of the passengers that came into Australia had flown previously with Qantas. Surely that must demonstrate the satisfaction of passengers with the excellent in-flight and on-ground service provided by Qantas. 
I think a final word on this matter could be put by the conservative critic Max Harris who recently described Qantas in the  Australian  newspaper as being 'our most enduring and freakishly successful cultural export'.  Mr Harris,  rating Qantas the world's best airline, went on to say: 
It is not only the world's safest airline, but possibly the world's most consistently excellent in-flight airline. 
Criticism has also been directed at the overseas marketing efforts of Qantas. It has been suggested that the airline is lazy and that it has been negligent in selling its services overseas. Again I believe that is untrue. Qantas operates a highly sophisticated and efficient marketing operation overseas. There is heavy advertising in the media both in Europe and in North America. During the last parliamentary recess I was in the United States looking at the presidential elections. I was amazed at the number of people who commented to me on a series of television advertisements that were then being shown in the United States by Qantas. They were making a tremendous impression in that country. Also anybody who went to a travel agency in the United States or who went into any of the major places to purchase tickets was confronted by some extremely good brochures which were on display and which were the basis of promotional efforts to sell package tours and to attract people from the United States to Australia. 
In the international travel sphere Qantas is beset with many difficulties, many of them stemming from the regulations of the International Air Transport Association. Chiefly Qantas is confronted by competitors who are able to offer cheaper rates on international air routes. I think the most successful airline in that regard is Singapore Airlines. Singapore Airlines is also the fastest growing airline in the world. According to the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 November 1976, Singapore Airlines experienced a 15.75 per cent growth rate in 1975, compared with 5 per cent experienced by Qantas. Singapore Airlines is able to achieve that result because of its cut-price offers and free extras on international air routes. Singapore Airlines is not a signatory member of IATA and thus is at liberty to take that course. 
Aside from that cut-price competition, Qantas is hampered by the tremendous distances that have to be flown to reach Australia. Also, and very importantly, it is hampered by the costs of operating from Australia because Qantas has to operate from Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane, and I think its aircraft are still landing in Darwin. If we look at some of the large overseas international airlines and realise that KLM operates internationally only out of Amsterdam and that Lufthansa, which is a huge airline, operates internationally only out of Frankfurt and marginally out of Munich, we can understand the huge problems with which Qantas is faced. 
I think that Qantas led the way in offering cheaper air services and air fares in this country. Air fares are certainly less expensive than they were a decade ago. For example, the fare from Sydney to Europe in 1965 cost about 30 weeks average salary; in 1975 the cost of that trip has been cut to 6 weeks average salary. The same situation does not apply to Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. We have the situation of those airlines racing off and applying for increased air fares as soon as the consumer price index goes up or there is a wage rise. I submit that if Qantas had done that over the last 20 years it would not be flying an international airline now; it would be in the real estate business. In reply to the charge that the Aus.tralian tourist industry is supposedly suffering because of Qantas I can only repeat that I believe this is nonsense. It is largely up to the Australian tourist industry, with the full involvement of the Federal Government, to revitalise itself if it wishes to prosper. 
I turn now to the regional and domestic air services in relation to the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill which is concerned with Ansett Transport Industries. I think it is a truism to say that Ansett would dearly love to devour Qantas. In my opinion- certainly it is only a personal opinion- I think what we need in Australia is one airline only and that is Qantas to deal with domestic, regional and international routes. Again I point to the example of Lufthansa which is the only German flag carrier that operates in West 
Germany. I also believe that Ansett should never be allowed to encroach upon Qantas' traditional markets in Papua New Guinea, New Zealand and Indonesia. However, it is a well known fact, as  Senator Keeffe  has said, that Ansett has considerable influence over the Liberal-National Country Party Government. I wonder whether Ansett will be favoured once again by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  If Qantas were Australia's only airline it would be better able to provide new services such as the one requested by a Government member of the House of Representatives recently which I think was also mentioned here some  Dme  last week by  Senator Sim-  a stop-over in the Pilbara area en route to Bali. I believe that in fact Qantas offered to stop over in Port Hedland as early as June 1976. I wonder why the Minister for Transport is so slow in approving this service and is preventing this service from coming into being. Is it because of pressure from Ansett on the Government or is it because Ansett wants this route for itself? I am certainly of the opinion that Qantas should have that route from Port Hedland to Bali. 
In conclusion, I think that many difficulties confront Australia's international freight carrier at present. Firstly, it suffers from cut price competition abroad; secondly, it does not know precisely what the Government's policy for the future will be; thirdly, foreign governments are continually meddling in the international air travel industry; and finally, at home, competitors such as Ansett are continually trying to poach lucrative regional routes from Qantas Airways. In the light of these factors, instead of abusing Qantas I think this Government should be prepared to defend our national airline and to point out proudly many of its achievements. After all, it is a company that employs 13 000 people throughout the world, 1 1 000 of whom are living in Australia. It has served Australia well and with distinction in the past. It has done so at a time when it has endeavoured to take a large number of Australian people out of Australia on holidays at as cheap a rate as possible and with an unsurpassed safety record. I hope it will continue to do so. 
I shall be very brief. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  referred to my remarks about having one airline throughout Australia. That is my own personal opinion. I have not discussed it with my colleagues. I certainly come down in favour of the sort of system which Lufthansa German Airlines runs in Germany where there is one airline throughout the whole country. Under that sort of system I believe that there would be better service and more efficiency. The Minister mentioned safety and profitability in relation to Pan American World Airways. Perhaps that was not the best example that he could have mentioned. I pointed out in my speech that Qantas Airways Ltd faces huge difficulties with distance and the number of places from which it operates in trying to compete profitably with other international carriers. As far as safety and profitability are concerned I come down strongly on the side of the quote I mentioned in my speech earlier. I shall quote only part of it again. It reads: 
The fine record that Qantas enjoys is attributable to a management which is not prepared to narrow safety margins in the cause of economic expediency. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the uncertainty that has been generated in the Australian car manufacturing industry by the Government's indecision over the level of restrictions that should be placed on imported vehicles. 
Is the Minister further aware that such uncertainty is the direct result of his announcement that the subject of import restrictions has been referred back to the Industries Assistance Commission less than 12 months after the Commission reported on this issue. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the statements recently made by both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer criticising the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and implying that this institution's decisions are largely to blame for the nation's current economic difficulties, is the Government considering the introduction of legislation designed to reduce the Commission to the mere status of being an arm of government economic policy? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Construction aware that the 6-point plan for economic recovery put forward by the New South Wales Premier, Neville Wran, enjoys the wholehearted support of the New South Wales Master Builders Association? Is the Minister further aware that this balanced plan was prepared in total rapport with the New South Wales building and construction industry and has been acclaimed as one which would revitalise that sector of the economy? In the light of these developments, will the Minister give favourable consideration to implementing the Wran proposals so far as they relate to the national construction industry? 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: Have any approaches been made by the Federal Government to the States in order to secure a referral of the States' wage fixing powers to the Australian Government? If so, what responses have been forthcoming from the State Premiers to such approaches? If not, is the Federal Government contemplating making requests to the States for referral of such powers to it? 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for National Resources aware of the statements made in the annual report of Mareeba Mining and Exploration Pty Ltd which suggest that the coming to power in December 1975 of the present Government may result in that company being forced to discontinue its operations? Is the Minister further aware that the company's future viability as a mining concern depends largely on the Federal Government extending a $300,000 loan beyond 1 July 1977? Bearing in mind that the previous Labor Administration actively assisted the Mareeba company's mining development through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, what assurance can the Minister give the Senate that the present Government will aid Mareeba to permit it to continue its mining ventures? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is irreparable damage being done to the Australian textile industry by the Government's delay in announcing quota levels to individual quota holders within the garment manufacturing industry. 
Is the Minister aware that both manufacturers and importers within the industry will not create employment opportunities until a decision has been made by the Government, which will permit forward planning for at least twelve months. If so, will the Minister indicate when a decision on quotas will be made. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister reconsider her decision not to publish the proposed directory of services that are available to women in Australia. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of reports circulating within the Australian business community to the effect that the Government is considering a further revaluation of the Australian dollar? Is the Minister aware that these reports are based on speculation that there is a continuing excessively high rate of capital inflow into the country as a result of the 17.5 per cent devaluation? In view of this uncertainty, will the Minister give the Australian business community an assurance that the Government is not contemplating further adjustment or alteration to the exchange rate of the Australian dollar? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the Government considering reducing allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme by an amount corresponding to that money earned by a student during vacations. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) When will funds be provided for the construction of the Katoomba-Leura Senior Citizens and Community Centre. 
What amount of funds is the Government considering allocating for this project. 
Which projects have a higher priority than the Katoomba-Leura Centre. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Does the Government have methods of extracting oil from coal or shale as a means of providing for Australia's future energy requirements, under investigation. 
-I present the following petitions from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or witholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) At what stage is Government planning for the Lithgow Polyclinic, a project which was being developed by the previous administration. 
Is the Government considering an allocation of funds for the construction of this facility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice: 
1 ) Is widespread concern being expressed in the Lithgow area over the future of the Small Arms Factory. 
Is the Government considering either scaling-down or phasing-out small arms production at this factory. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. What reasons have prompted the Government to allocate charter rights on the Western Australia-Bali route to MacRobertson Miller Airline Services, a subsidiary of Ansett Airlines of Australia? Is this not a marked departure from established Government airline policy laid down over many years? Why has Qantas Airways Ltd not received even a firm reply to its application to operate a scheduled service on this route? Can this decision be taken as a precedent for the allocation of regional air traffic routes to domestic airlines at the expense of Qantas, the traditional carrier? 
I rise in this debate tonight to support the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt.  I want firstly to deal with some remarks that were made this evening by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. When he spoke of the Soviet threat he also mentioned the fact that he had seen a number of vessels going in and out of Bombay harbour recently. I think he would probably recall that I was with him on that occasion. However, earlier this year I was fortunate enough to visit the headquarters of CINCPAC which is the U.S. 7th Fleet headquarters in Hawaii. I certainly gained the impression there that the United States Navy places a very low priority on the Indian Ocean. Officers pointed out to me that they would be sending a task force into the Indian Ocean every 90 days as a perception of power, and purely as a perception of power. They also pointed out to me that whenever the  Enterprise  is in the Indian Ocean the balance of power- if one wants to use that expression- because of fire power is overwhelmingly in favour of the United States. In the briefing that I received the officers gave me the impression that they thought that if there were any major conflict in which the United States Navy was involved, that conflict would take place in the Atlantic Ocean. They said too that if there were another conflict it could take place in the Pacific Ocean, and also that as far as they were concerned there would be no conflict in the Indian Ocean. In fact they said that if a conflict took place in the Atlantic, both the Soviet Union and the United States would pull whatever ships they had out of the Indian Ocean and return them to the Atlantic. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has observed that the White Paper endeavours to lay the base for mature debate upon Australia's new role in the world and also at the same time to encourage the development of a bipartisan approach to defence matters. By and large, I think this paper achieves these aims. I am sure all of us here would agree that these aims are desirable. The Opposition agrees that defence planning and our national defence posture should be an area for bipartisan effort. I should mention that as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I have been agreeably surprised in the period that I have been a senator at the bipartisan approach that has been shown. I have helped compile 3 reports:  Australia and the Refugee Problem,  an Interim Report on the Lebanon Crisis and  Australia and the Indian Ocean.  I think  Senator Scott,  the previous  speaker,  has served on all those inquiries. I see  Senator Sim  in the chamber. One afternoon in Melbourne he and I went through the draft of about 50 pages of the Indian Ocean report and then had that draft agreed to by our colleagues. As I have said, in the period that I have been here all the other joint committee reports have been unanimous. 
I think one comment must be made after saying that in order to put the background of this White Paper into proper perspective, and that is simply that this White Paper was commissioned especially by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  who insisted on a more realistic assessment of our nation's defence needs. But it in no way differs substantially from the documentary submissions put to Labor Defence Ministers Lance Barnard and Bill Morrison. They were criticised severely by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in the period 1973 to 1975 for failures to perceive threats. In 1975 Bill Morrison's submission was called unrealistic by the present Prime Minister but this White Paper that we are discussing tonight is not much different from the document that was put forward by Bill Morrison. In short, the basis for Labor's defence programs of 1973 to 1975 have been shown to be realistic and quite sound, as was acknowledged by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack here tonight. 
I am also pleased to be able to say that this White Paper has finally done away with the forward defence concept. It seems to offer reasonable recommendations for future defence planning. It places greater emphasis on self-reliance. 
But the crucial consideration is cost. Some $ 12,000m is estimated to be the expenditure over the next 5 years. Almost certainly the cost will be well in excess of that amount because of inflation and devaluation. I have already read that one critic has said that devaluation will cost this program an additional $300m over the next 5 years. So I wonder what the end cost of this $12, 000m program will be. 
I think we ought to look at the major components of this 5 year rolling program. Firstly, there is an estimate of approximately $500m for new fighter aircraft to replace the Mirage. I think that we have to ask ourselves as a Parliament what sort of aircraft we want. Do we want an offensive weapon or a defensive weapon? I know that there has been a lot of talk and speculation that Australia needs the F16 from the United States at a cost of approximately $ 17m each. But I also noticed the other day that the Israelis are producing a fighter, the KFIR C2, using a Mirage frame- a plane that we already have- at $4.2m each. This is something we have to look at seriously in the future. A sum of $150m is estimated for the FFG program, $60m for patrol boats and $30m for additional Hercules aircraft. There will also be heavy outlays for additional tanks, surveillance aircraft and a replacement ship for HMAS  Supply.  Recent purchases of defence equipment by the Government have included some $8m spent on acquiring the  Australian Trader  for the purposes of turning it into a training ship, and some $25m for the purchase of blind-fire radar tracking equipment and support material. This blind-fire tracking equipment is designed to complement the Rapier surfacetoair weapons system ordered by the Labor Government in late 1975. When one looks at the outlays of public moneys on this scale it is essential that we examine Australia's defence needs. We have to bear in mind that Australia has a coastline over 20 000 kilometres in length. Therefore, it is a difficult country to defend. Traditionally, we have relied on our powerful friends to assist us in this effort. To a certain extent we continue to do so today. But as  Senator Wheeldon  said earlier tonight, the thing we must avoid is a super power buildup in the area. 
It has been put to me on more than one occasion, and it has also been mentioned in the Senate of the United States of America by a member of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the U.S. Senate,  Senator John  Culver, that in evidence taken by the U.S. Committee it was shown that the U.S. had not criticised the Soviet's buildup in Berbera as might have been expected for the simple reason that it did not want a public outcry until it had completed the facilities at Diego Garcia. No matter what we have to say about that now, because the United States took this low posture on the Soviet Union's stance in Berbera, Diego Garcia as a base is practically completed and we do have a super power buildup in the Indian Ocean whether we like it or not. Both major political groupings in this country have realised the need for greater independence and self-reliance in defence planning. Certainly, this is borne out in the White Paper. I wish to quote from page 10 of the White Paper which states: 
A primary requirement emerging from our findings is for increased self-reliance. In our contemporary circumstances we no longer base our policy on the expectations that Australia's Navy, Army or Air Force will be sent abroad to fight as part of some other nation 's force supported by it. 
I suppose that is a reference to the end of the Vietnam episode. It is not much of a reference to it in a White Paper report. In relation to the ANZUS pact, the White Paper reads, again on page 10: 
Our alliance with the U.S. gives substantial grounds for confidence that in the event of a fundamental threat to Australia's security United States military support would be forthcoming. However, even though our security may be ultimately dependent on U.S. support we owe it to ourselves to be able to mount a national defence effort that would maximise the risks and costs of any aggression. 
I think it should be realised also that as far as defence planning is concerned a number of contingencies may arise in which Australia's territorial integrity may be violated, although our security may not be put at fundamental risk. Some of these contingencies have been illustrated by a conservative defence commentator Brigadier F. V. Speed in an article entitled  Australia: Defence Planners Teaser  which was published in July 1976 in the Army Quarterly and Defence Journal. In this article Brigadier Speed draws attention to some potential problems in our defence operation. Among these are illegal fishing. Fishing boats from other nations, notably Taiwan, often intrude into Australian territorial waters. To counter such intrusions the Royal Australian Navy needs patrol boats. Currently there are 7 boats based in Cairns and Darwin to patrol that great expanse of ocean from our eastern to our western coastline and to protect Australia's fishing grounds. The problem is likely to be increased in the not too distant future when Australia, as it seems likely, extends her territorial waters to a 200-mile limit as was mentioned in the debate early tonight by  Senator Wriedt.  This will take in vast off-shore sea-bed resources, especially oil and natural gas in the south-east coast between the mainland and Tasmania and also on the North- West Shelf. These areas will need to be protected. Again,  Senator Wriedt  spoke tonight of the need for a coastguard. No mention is made of this in the White Paper. 
Another problem that has been mentioned by  Senator Scott  tonight-it was raised also by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which dealt with a reference concerning the Indian Ocean region- is that of terrorism. While Australia has been singularly free of terrorism in recent years, there exists the danger of aircraft hijacking, of piracy or of terrorist incursion somewhere along Australia's coastline. Finally, we must take into consideration the security of our most distant territories such as Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island. I suppose it could also be said that Antarctica is another consideration. Perhaps that is something about which I should ask  Senator Webster.  All these areas are part of the Commonwealth of Australia. As part of the Commonwealth of Australia they demand that Australia's defence forces be of such a capability as is required to ensure their defence in time of threat. These are the enormous demands placed on Australia's defence forces by simple geographical circumstances. 
I think this brings us to the vital question. That is the issue of threat and perceptions of threat. Early in its term of office the Fraser Government drew attention to the supposed threat that I have mentioned earlier posed by the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean. This threat has no basis in reality. This has been amply demonstrated by the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which dealt with the Indian Ocean region. The Soviet threat was a product of 2 elements in the thinking of this Government. Firstly, there was the obsession with Soviet military strength that characterises the thinking of both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  Secondly, there seemed to be on the part of the Liberal Party of Australia a determination to find some diversion which would take the mind of the public away from domestic policies to foreign policies. In fact, there is much evidence to suggest that the Indian Ocean as an issue arose in Australia as a direct result of this Government's desire to present the Court State Government in Western Australia with something which could be used once again to divert public attention away from that State's administration. In relation to threats, we as members of the Australian Parliament should be prepared to say that we recognise that the world is uncertain and that there are patterns to international diplomacy and patterns to political developments within our region. 
In the last couple of years we have seen ASEAN develop into a viable, constructive, progressive regional grouping which I believe functions effectively and efficiently. We have seen Papua New Guinea come to nationhood without the bloodshed that was promised by some members of the present Government and we have seen it do so with considerable international goodwill. Australia enjoys constructive and friendly relations with her nearest neighbours, at the moment. I certainly support  Senator Wheeldon  's remarks when he said that in this White Paper there is no talk about the threats that could arise to Papua New Guinea from Indonesia. We enjoy extensive ties with most nations in the globe. Despite the Prime Minister's best efforts, relations with the Soviet Union remain at least correct. I would like to quote from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when we dealt with this matter. We stated: 
The Committee agrees that Australia's best interests are not served if we are seen both regionally and globally to take sides in such issues as the Sino-Soviet dispute. Events of that nature are not of Australia's making and we cannot expect to influence their outcome without prejudicing our relations with one or other of the disputants or with others. 
As I have said, these relations with the Soviet Union are not as previously both under Labor governments and under Liberal-National Country Party governments as cordial or friendly as perhaps they should be. But at least we can say that at the present time they remain correct. 
Relations with the U.S.A. and Western Europe are also of immense importance to Australia. But we should be at all times prepared to project the image of an independent, able and self-reliant nation prepared to engage in international and regional efforts to the benefit of other nations and to the benefit of ourselves. Our defence preparedness is a part of this effort. This defence White Paper that we are discussing tonight goes a fair way towards establishing those prerequisites for Australia to assume the role of an independent and capable power prepared to undertake its responsibilities both at a regional and at an international level. However, I believe that this White Paper that we have been discussing contains flaws other than those I have already mentioned. It does not mention at all the possibility of a limited regional conflict which I think is perhaps the biggest threat facing this country at the moment. It does not mention anything to do with the South Pacific area. We in the Opposition have serious reservations about the financial aspects concerning the $ 12,000m over the 5-year period which I have mentioned. I support the amendment to refer this matter to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of reports which suggest that as a result of pressure from member nations of the European Economic Community, Japanese shipbuilders apparently are about to increase their construction prices by the order of 30 per cent. In the light of this development will the Minister for 
Transport reconsider the decision to award construction contracts for 2 Australian National Line bulk carriers to Japanese yards and reexamine the economics of having the ships built at Australian yards, especially the Newcastle State Dockyard? 
I do not wish to delay the Senate for long but I wish to raise the matter of dress regulations and working conditions for Commonwealth car drivers. In this chamber recently there has been a quiet revolution in relation to dress regulations led by my colleague  Senator McLaren.  It seems to have passed without too many problems. Honourable senators will be aware that on two occasions in Sydney recently the temperature reached over 40 degrees Celsius. I was amazed on one of those days when travelling in a Commonwealth vehicle to find that the driver was wearing a tie and a long sleeved shirt that was buttoned at the wrists. When I inquired I was told that this was a regulation and that the reason for this regulation was that some of the drivers had tattoos on their forearms and these tattoos might be regarded by the passengers as offensive. I would certainly hope that all honourable senators are broad minded enough not to be shocked by a tattoo and that a more sensible style of dress could be adopted in these circumstances. 
While I am on this subject, I noticed also that a large number of cars in the Sydney pool are being replaced by new Chryslers and that these are not airconditioned. Surely air conditioning would increase the resale value of the vehicles as well as providing more comfort for the passengers and, more importantly, more safety for both the drivers and the passengers. I think if any person here were asked to drive a nonairconditioned vehicle for a full shift in temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius wearing a tie and a long sleeved buttoned shirt there would quickly be industrial action. That is the way I feel about the issue. I hope that the Minister concerned will investigate the two matters that I have raised tonight. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the ratio of officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service to registered unemployed persons now stands at 1 : 177? Is the Minister further aware that due to this extraordinary work load on staff the CES can in no way give unemployed persons the attention they deserve? Will the Government take steps to alleviate this situation by lifting the CES staff ceiling and by permitting the service to use its funds as it determines, in a flexible manner? 
I was surprised, when listening to the Country Party senators during the debate, to learn that the only criteria they want to talk about in relation to setting tolerances for seats are distance and size. They say that those factors should be the only criteria. I recommend particularly to the Country Party senators that they look at the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973. In Part III, Electoral Divisions, section 19 (2) states: 
For the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, the Distribution Commissioners shall give due consideration, in relation to each Proposed Division, to- 
community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests. 
I raised that matter this afternoon, and I point out that there are inner city seats which people on the other side seem automatically to assume should have a very large number of enrolments and electors. In fact if one looks at electorates such as Grayndler and Sydney, and at the socioeconomic problems of those areas, one sees that they have large groups of migrants and large groups of people who are not voters who have to be looked after. If it is understood that that in itself is a very great difficulty in those sorts of electorates, then perhaps the Country Party senators might not make those comments. They would realise that in some inner city areas there is a lot of room for improvement when the boundaries are being redrawn. 
During the course of the debate this afternoon I posed a number of questions dealing with clause 1 1 of this Bill. I hope that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  will be able to answer some of them tonight. I asked whether the 6 States and the Territories could have different methods of conducting an election, and I asked what voting system would be used. I come now to the point that  Senator Cavanagh  just raised, that is, that if the same sort of system were used as the one that is used to elect senators to this chamber there would be a system in New South Wales under which somebody could be elected to the House of Representatives with under 3 per cent of the vote. But even if there were to be a proviso in the Commonwealth Electoral Act like the one that operates in West Germany, whereby a candidate has to get 5 per cent of the vote before he is recognised as having won a seat, the situation would still arise in New South Wales where, whether it be for 43, 44 or 45 seats, it would be completely impossible to count the ballot. One has only to go back to the last Senate election and take into account that there were only 53 candidates-not 153 or 300, as has been mentioned, but only 53- and that the result of that election, which was held on 13 December, was not available until 6 February to appreciate that the counting under such a system of voting could not be completed before the date for the return of the writs. I hope that we will get an answer to some of those questions tonight. 
At the moment the Senate is debating 3 Bills cognately- the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill, the Census and Statistics Amendment Bill, and the Representation Amendment Bill. We on this side of the chamber are opposing the motions for the second and third readings of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill and will be opposing clauses 7, 10 and 1 1 of that Bill in the Committee stage. I was interested to hear  Senator Maunsell  say that he would like the 20 per cent tolerance still to apply. I am concerned, and I hope the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  will give me an answer later on, that this Bill allows for a greater scope and a greater imbalance than the 20 per cent tolerance which used to apply.  Senator Maunsell  also said that we on this side of the chamber believe in one vote one value when it suits us. We support the principle of one vote one value because we believe in it. 
I want to deal now with clauses 7, 10 and 1 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill. Clause 7 provides for the insertion in section 19 of 2 new sub-sections to the effect that the distribution commissioners shall ensure that no division having an area of 5000 square kilometres or more shall have a number of electors greater than the number of electors of any division of less than 5000 square kilometres. As has already been said today by  Senator Walsh,  I believe that is a sop to the Country Party and that distance and size alone should not be the only criteria. I believe that we should be looking at socioeconomic factors when we look at boundaries and tolerances in electorates, and that those sorts of things should be taken into consideration. In referring to social tolerance, I think there are special circumstances, and I use the example of an electorate which might have a large migrant population and therefore a smaller than normal enrolment. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Young  speak about the electorate of Grayndler because I believe that is a classic example of an electorate which has a small enrolment but in fact has a very large population and, because of its large migrant population, has a lot of problems. It could also be said that an electorate with a large number of Aborigines would come into this category. Further, the small rural electorates might need more attention than some of the large rural electorates about which  Senator Maunsell  spoke, and I use the electorate of Richmond as an example. In area it is a small rural electorate but it has a particular problem at the moment in that its dairy industry has reached the disaster stage. 
I believe that to talk about distance alone is completely irrelevant. We have seen the results of poor boundaries. House of Representatives elections held in 1954, 1961, and again in 1969 showed that the party getting the majority of the votes did not get the majority of the seats. I hope we will be able to do away with that situation through this legislation but I do not think we will be able so to do. On my reading of the Bill, clause 10 provides for a redistribution only every 7 years, and I think that could be used as a moratorium for the Country Party. Over a period of 7 years there will be a tremendous shift in population. That shift will be to the outer suburbs of the main cities such as Sydney and Melbourne, and will mean a great disadvantage to the party which happened to hold those seats. It could also affect rural electorates, as well as those on the outskirts of a large city. If the growth centre program is successful, more and more people will go to those rural areas and there will be increases in certain rural electorates and not in others. In my State of New South Wales there is a continuing shift of population to the North Coast and particularly to such electorates as Lyne and Cowper, which would therefore get out of balance with some of the other rural electorates. I believe that such changes could lead to a rural rotten borough system, but at the same time other seats in rural areas could go over the quota. I hope that when the Minister replies he will answer some of our queries about clause 10. 
It is clause 1 1 which causes me the greatest concern because it provides for elections at large, yet there do not seem to be any rules. The clause poses a number of questions, and it seems to me that it contains a number of inconsistencies. For example, could the 6 States and the Territories all have different methods of election? That is something I have not been able to work out from reading the legislation. What voting system would be used? Would it be first past the post, multi-preferential or the proportional representation system? If we used that system, would a limited percentage of the vote be required for election- for instance, the 5 per cent which exists in West Germany or in the State of New South Wales, say, would candidates getting less than 3 per cent of the vote win seats in the House of Representatives? I think if this could happen we would be in a disaster situation. Of course this could lead to a completely unrepresentative government in Australia. 
A further question I pose is: What would happen in a by-election? I notice that some information we were given today by the Commonwealth Electoral Office contained statistics going back to the year 1900. In 1902 in Tasmania there was a by-election for the House of Representatives. It was held at large with everybody in Tasmania voting. That would not have been too much of a problem in 1902 but let us consider what it would be like today if there were a by-election in New South Wales and it were held at large. It would be a ludicrous situation. It would be unworkable and of course would cost a fortune. 
One of the things that concerns me is that we are debating an amendment to the Commonwealth Electoral Act here this afternoon and we are not talking about any attempt to reform the Act other than in the ways provided. We are not talking about reforming the system of election to this chamber. Any system similar to the one which operated in New South Wales at the last Senate election, when a ballot was held on 13 December and we got a result on 6 February, I believe needs an overhaul.  Senator Mulvihill  this afternoon spoke about the need for increasing the deposit by Senate candidates. I think it is a pity we are not discussing such things when we are debating an amendment to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. In New South Wales in 1974 we had 73 candidates for the Senate elections and in 1975, 53 candidates. This just confuses the voter. I agree with what  Senator Mulvihill  said. The deposit must be raised. Our informal vote was 12.31 per cent in 1974. The figure went down slightly but it was still nearly 10 per cent in 1975. Of course this leads to an election lottery system. That is exactly what it was last time when a candidate could gain an additional 25 000 votes if his name was near the top of the ballot paper. 
No, I do not. But when we have a system under which someone who draws the No. 1 position on a ballot paper- he may be completely unrepresentative of any electors in a State in Australia- thereby gets 25 000 votes or more, that system needs an overhaul. The number of informal votes indicates that the situation at the moment certainly discriminates against migrants and poorly educated people. If members of the National Country Party looked at the percentage of informal votes in rural electorates in New South Wales they would certainly be worried about the system and they would be trying to change it. 
In a debate concerning the Commonwealth Electoral Act it is a pity we are not discussing the inclusion of party affiliation on ballot papers, mobile voting booths and earlier closing times. A Liberal-Country Party Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  introduced earlier closing times in State elections; the. voting stops at 6 o'clock. Therefore the people are able to know the result much earlier. This is something that we should do. We should also be looking at political advertising and the financing of political parties. 

 Senator Maunsell referred to the Australian Labor Party National Executive and our conference. I believe that like all other parties in Australia we should be moving towards a national party. I do not believe any of the major parties in Australia at the moment could be described as being a truly national party in that sense. What we ought to be considering in the Senate is the setting up of a committee like the Houghton committee in Britain which recommended government funding for election campaigning. That takes a large amount of the cost off political parties. In Australia it would allow them to move towards being national parties. 

 -No, Senator Young, I would not. But by the same token I do not think you would be refusing funds that came from any large manufacturing interests or rural interests in the community. I raise these questions because I feel that the present system of election to this chamber has become so complicated that it is not understood by the vast majority of voters and for the reasons I have stated it has become something of a lottery, especially in a close contest. Because of this not only does the system come into disrepute but also when we have the sort of election that we had in New South Wales in 1 974 and 1975 I believe that the reputation of this Senate suffers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What technical development designed to improve poor television reception in mountainous areas, such as around Lithgow, New South Wales, does the Department currently have under investigation. 
It is not often that I follow  Senator Maunsell  in a debate and find myself to be mainly in agreement with him. I am glad that I am in agreement with him today. I support the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. I supported it strongly in my State in 1974. 1 am pleased to say that the people of New South Wales saw fit to pass that issue in 1 974. 1 shall deal briefly with a couple of remarks that have been made by previous speakers. This afternoon  Senator Harradine  made a spirited attack on the Bill. I wonder what his attitude was when this issue was put up in 1974 when he was a member of the Australian Labor Party. 

 - Senator Harradine says that the Labor Party in his State did not support it. In other words he did not support the decision of the Australian Labor Party that was made at a national level to support the referendum. I was more interested to hear the remarks made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He said that he hates big government. This statement was met by cries of 'hear, hear' from honourable senators on the other side of the chamber.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack went on to say that in 1933  President  Roosevelt established big government in the United States. What he did not say was that  President  Roosevelt established big governmentI prefer the term welfare programs- because of the failure of big business in those troubled times to deal with and care about people. He said that the result of the setting up of big government by Roosevelt in 1933 had carried through until the excesses of the Nixon regime. What he also did not point out was that  President  Nixon too ignored the people.  President  Nixon and, to some extent,  President  Ford ignored social issues with the result that now  President  Carter is promoting what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would call big government, that is government spending as an attack on unemployment. It looks as though  President  Carter will be supporting the Hawkins-Humphrey Bill which is aimed at creating Government spending to help lower unemployment in the United States. If that is big government I certainly support it. 
So far there have been 12 or more speakers in the debate on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. I shall not try to canvass any new ground. I hope to summarise some of the arguments that have been put forward. Under the existing constitutional provisions it is possible theoretically for elections for both Houses of Parliament to be synchronised by holding elections for the House of Representatives whenever half Senate elections are due. Because of political realities that synchronisation is difficult to maintain. At present it would be disastrous for this Government to follow that course because of the number of seats it would lose in the House of Representatives. In fact, elections for both Houses have been out of phase since 1963 when, as has been said, for reasons of political expediency, to obtain a short term political advantage the Menzies Government called an early House of Representatives election. The result has been that, in the 9-year period from 1963 to 1972, 7 national elections have been held. If the Constitution is not altered and the status quo continues, there can be as many as 4 elections over the next 4 years and that would mean that 14 elections all told would have been held between 1961 and 1981. In view of this, the Bill aims at altering the Constitution by an amendment to ensure that the elections for both Houses are brought together. We support that proposition. 
The amendment specifies that half Senate elections are to be brought into line with elections for the House of Representatives whenever those elections may occur. The aim is to ensure that the popular will is reflected simultaneously in both chambers. The Government is arguing that it will provide a more satisfactory basis upon which the government of the country may be based. Indeed, it is difficult to argue with that proposition. We on this side of the House would not argue with that proposition. But it should be pointed out at the same time that this amendment is in accord with the unanimous recommendation made by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Review in its 19S8 and 1939 reports. In addition, as has been mentioned, a great deal of support was expressed from all parties at the Austraiian Constitutional Convention held in October 1976 in Hobart. 
If the Bill eventually becomes law, senators will hold office for 2 terms of the House of Representatives instead of 6 years as at present under the Constitution. I think this is a great improvement. This was pointed out last evening by  Senator Missen  in relation to the situation that arises when an election is held in late November or early December. Following such an election, some senators may unfortunately lose their seats but they continue to sit in this Senate until 1 July of the following year. The result is that the Senate does not have the continuity that would exist if this proposal was passed. 
I ask: Why has it taken the Liberal and National Country Parties nearly 20 years to act on the recommendation of a parliamentary committee? This proposal is substantially the same, to use the words of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  as the one that was submitted to referendum by the Federal Labor administration in 1974. This proposal was endorsed, as I said earlier, by the electors of New South Wales but failed narrowly to obtain the required national support. I think that the Australia-wide vote in 1974 in favour of this issue was 48.3 per cent. One can be forgiven for drawing from this fact the conclusion that the Liberal and National Country Parties believe that they have something to gain by bringing the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate into synchronisation now, for this is a proposal that they vigorously opposed in 1974 as being a sinister move by the centralist socialist Labor administration to entrench itself in power. That proposal has suddenly become, a mere 3 years later, a desirable move and one which, again to use the words of the Attorney-General, 'should find general support amongst our people '. 
The political reality is that by bringing elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate back into phase this Government can hold off a half Senate election until, at the latest, March 1 979. This would allow it a further 2 years in which to right the economic mess that it has striven so strenuously to create since it was elected to office. It is almost certain that, if a half Senate election were held in the middle of next year, the Government would lose 3 Senate seats in South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania. The Labor Party would certainly hold the 3 Labor seats which would be up for election in New South Wales. This would reduce the Government 's numbers in this chamber to the point that, if the Labor Party was successful at the 1981 half Senate poll, it could well be that this Government would be faced with precisely the dilemma which confronted the previous Labor government continually and incessantly from 1 972 to 1975- that is, a hostile upper chamber. 
I have listened to  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators speak in this debate on this Bill. I have listened to a lot of humbug being talked about the Senate as the States' House, the House of review or the independent House of review. This is nonsense. We all know, especially as a result of the events of November 1975, that the Senate is a party House. It votes on party lines and it votes that way for party reasons. Because of what happened in November 1975 1 believe that it will continue to do so in the future. 
To return to the legislation before us, the Opposition sees much merit in the Bill. It does not oppose it. However, it should be remembered that the Labor Party has always been consistent on the principles in the Bill which is about to be given legislative effect. The same cannot be said of the parties presently in government which repeatedly opposed the introduction of such a measure when they were in opposition. I support the Bill. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the serious deficiencies that exist in certain areas of technical and further education in Australia, especially in terms of the buildings, accommodation and facilities on older technical education campuses? In the light of such deficiencies as are apparent at such an institution as the Sydney Technical College, will the Minister give favourable consideration to implementing the recommendations of the Technical and Further Education Commission of August 1976 and increase public expenditure in this area? 
-Does the Minister for Social Security agree that the Australian Assistance Plan was responsible for the initiation of some of the most innovative programs in the history of Australian social welfare? Is the Minister aware that the regional councils which constitute the AAP throughout Australia are in serious financial difficulties? In view of this state of affairs, will the Minister agree to a continuaton of Federal funding for the Plan beyond 1 July 1977? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Government considering introducing a system of identity cards for persons receiving welfare benefits? If so, on what basis would such a system be established? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security confirm reports that persons who receive lump sum settlements for workers compensation claims are no longer covered by Medibank health insurance for any recurring trouble caused by the injury which is the subject of that settlement payment? Can the Minister explain this policy and can she ensure that steps will be taken to inform all people who accept lump sum payments for injuries suffered at work of the consequences of the settlement. 

 -Mr President, I wish to support this condolence motion. I know, as all of us do, of the achievements of the late John Armstrong, but I also know something about bis disappointments. I met John Armstrong on the night that I joined the Labor Party. He drove me home from the Party branch meeting. I was closely associated with him from that day on. I remember his disappointment when he lost his Senate preselection after, as  Senator Mulvihill  just mentioned, 24 years service. He went on to become  Chairman  of the Sydney County Council and Lord Mayor of Sydney. I remember his disappointment when the New South Wales State Government terminated this appointment and altered the boundaries of the Sydney City Council. As his campaign director, I remember his disappointment when, on those altered boundaries, he narrowly failed to regain the position. Then he became our High Commissioner in England. On the morning after the last federal election when senators on this side of the chamber were not receiving many calls, I remember, John Armstrong called at my house and discussed the results. Only 2 weeks ago he attended my local branch and actively participated. I associate myself with these remarks today not only because I have lost a personal friend and the Labor Party a stalwart member but also because I believe that this country has lost a fine citizen. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that the  President  of Uganda,  Dr Idi  Amin Dada, has consistently stated that he will attend the Commonwealth Conference in London in June this year, will the Australian Government give consideration, as Canada is presently doing, to boycotting the meeting in protest at the savage practices that currently are widespread in Uganda under Amin? 
I rise in this debate to support the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  in the amendment he has moved. I think many speakers tonight have taken no notice of what  Senator Wriedt  said. What he virtually said is that if a standing order is abused it ought to be removed. In what the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said afterwards he really agreed with  Senator Wriedt.  He said: Of course, Ministers are allowed to read their second reading speeches'. But then there is further abuse of the standing order. As an honourable senator said later in the debate, there are exceptions. If honourable senators on the front bench on the other side of the chamber want to read their speeches because they are leading for the Government, because of technical aspects, because of the volume of the speech, or if a member of the Opposition is speaking for the first time on a Bill, nobody takes any notice if a speech is read. 
I do not think that has been the case at all. I think that if any honourable senator were to look back through  Hansard  he will see that  Senator Keeffe,  who was so strong on this point tonight,  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Webster  have been pulled up within the past three or four weeks for reading their speeches. Yet they are on the front bench. I think  Senator Young,  referring to standing order 406, virtually admitted, even though he was opposing what  Senator Wriedt  had said, that this standing order was used as a disruptive tactic. As  Senator Chaney  said, it is often used to score a point off a new member. I think in looking at this that we have to bear in mind what  Senator Wriedt  has said, that is, if a standing order is being abused by Ministers on the one side and by front benchers on the other and if certain other exceptions are permitted, such as was the case tonight in respect of  Senator Bonner,  and it is not removed it should certainly be modified because, as it stands at the moment, honourable senators from either side of the chamber do not adhere to it. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the widespread unrest that exists in the Commonwealth Employment Service due directly to the intolerable work load being imposed on Service staff by the current ratio of officers to unemployed people? Is the Minister aware further that such dissatisfaction amongst CES personnel, which prompted the current industrial dispute between the Service and the Department, will not even begin to be dispelled until the Government takes some form of positive action to relieve the situation? 
The Opposition does not oppose the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. I congratulate  Senator Lewis  on his maiden speech. It was brief and to the point which he wished to make. I would like to deal with the remarks that have been made by other honourable senators in this debate. This afternoon  Senator Baume  made a very thoughtful contribution when he spoke of the tragic early death of a number of politicians and the reason for their deaths. In making this contribution the honourable senator spoke of Anthony Crosland. Only this afternoon I got from the Parliamentary Library a paper entitled  Britain, Europe and the World  by Anthony 
Crosland, former Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the British Labour Government. 
I think that Anthony Crosland was one of the foremost thinkers and writers in the world on social democracy. I certainly agree with  Senator Baume  that Anthony Crosland 's work in the British Government, his work in the European Economic Community and his intense work and interest in the Socialist International movement helped to bring about his tragic early death. I suggest to  Senator Lajovic,  who spoke after  Senator Baume,  that Anthony Crosland perhaps was one socialist whose contributions he should read. Perhaps he would not find all socialists to be bad.  Senator Lajovic  spoke of the Jackson report and the fact that much work was being done by multi-lingual industrial officers. He said that a lot of work in this field was not being done by the trade union movement. I have to agree with him to a certain extent but I know that in my State of New South Wales the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia, the Storemen and Packers Union of Australia and the Health and Research Employees Association of Australia- 3 unions that come to mind very quickly- are doing a lot about migrant education in the trade union movement. 

 Senator Lajovic ought to take note of the fact that migrants have difficulties at all levels throughout Australia and not only in trade union elections. I am sure he is aware of that. He cited tonight the percentage of migrants who are elected in union elections. I would be surprised if that figure were any lower than the percentage of migrants who are elected to public life right throughout Australia. I am not saying that that is a good thing at all. The 2 sets of statistics are very close to one another.  Senator Kilgariff,  the last  speaker,  spoke on the defence White Paper. I think that the defence White Paper put down by the Government was a realistic assessment of the present position. I intend to say something on that later. 
I had the pleasure of listening to  Her  Majesty's Speech. It was, in my view, more significant for its omissions than for what it contained. It can certainly be said that this Government is at greater pains at the moment to cover up its failures and to avoid confronting the unpleasant realities that have resulted from its policies than it has been at any time since it came to power. This applies equally to the domestic scene and to Australian foreign relations. Tonight I intend to focus on some of these issues. First, I wish to deal briefly with the economy. In December 1975 the now Government was elected to office on the promise that it would right the economic mess that was created by the Labor Administration. The Australian people were promised that economic prosperity could be had merely by voting for the Liberal and the National Country Parties. The line 'switch on the lights' was repeated so often that it virtually became the catch phrase of the election. People believed it. There is no doubt about that. I talked to quite a number of people in the community who said that the economic problems which the country was in would be solved as soon as the Liberal and National Country Parties were returned to power. 
How disillusioned those Australians who supported the current Government Parties must now be. By any criteria the economy is now in a far worse shape than at any time during Labor's administration. I should point out that the economic difficulties that were suffered by the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 were largely the result of trends in the international market place and in the world economy generally. This is certainly very true with respect to increases in the cost of living and in the number of unemployed which developed in the period from 1972 to 1975. However, the Liberal and National Country Parties at the time assured the Australian electorate that the Labor Administration was directly responsible for all of our economic woes. Therefore, they said, they would take over the reins of government and put right the mess that we had supposedly created. But let us consider the situation now. Unemployment is at a record post-war high. In regard to the February figures, it was confidently expected that if this economy were to be righted the number of jobless would drop by some 40 000, but in fact the number dropped by approximately 9000. In my State of New South Wales the number dropped by about 612, which made the New South Wales figures for February the worst for 40 years. In some of the more depressed areas in our major cities and in certain country areas unemployment has gone beyond tragedy and has reached crisis point. It is a national scandal. 
The national level of 5.7 per cent hides the terrible pockets of unemployment which exist in certain country areas in New South Wales. Last weekend, as part of my duties as a senator, I was in the electorates of Cowper and Lyne in northern New South Wales. It was pointed out to me that in Kempsey and the surrounding areas in the Kempsey valley the largest single income coming into that valley is the unemployment cheque that arrives from the Government every fortnight. Unemployment in centres such as Newcastle, in the outer western suburbs of Sydney or in the rural provincial centres of New 
South Wales is far higher than 5.7 per cent. In New South Wales the State average is 6.7 per cent, but that does not tell the full tale. It does not tell the tale of the tens of thousands of young people who are unable to find work. It does not tell the tale of the tens of thousands of skilled and semi-skilled workers whose job prospects, according to the admissions of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  are very poor indeed. Of course, we cannot always go by statistics. How many people left school at the end of last year to look for jobs and when they could not find jobs returned to school? I have spoken to many people who fall into that category. They did not register for employment and they did not show in any statistics but they will probably show at the end of next year when they again try to get a job. The figures do not tell either of the hardships suffered by the families of those who are out of work. 
Undoubtedly, a large part of this unemployment is the result of the Government's economic policies. It is a result of the Government's failure to convince businessmen of the need to invest. It is a result of the Government's failure to stimulate consumer spending and, worst of all, of the Government's obession with reducing public expenditure. The reduction of public expenditure reduces employment prospects, and that is graphically demonstrated in New South Wales by the critical situation that has arisen in the construction industry and in the building industry. It is also graphically demonstrated by the closure of the Newcastle shipyards. One can think of other examples of the way in which the present Government has destroyed business and consumer confidence and put the employment prospects of literally hundreds of thousands of Australians at risk. Only recently the spokesmen for business and commerce in Australia openly admitted that confidence in the economy and in the future ofthe Australian economy is at a very low ebb. Part of the Government's obsession with reducing public expenditure is said to be a result of its desire to reduce the deficit. But if one looks at the facts, the Federal Government deficit at the end of February this year was approaching $5600m, and that is fully $ 1000m over the deficit which existed when the Labor Government was in power. So much for the Government's success in reducing the deficit. 
Again, the Government insists that the rate of inflation can and should be brought down, and no one would disagree with that. Certainly we would not disagree with that. However, if one considers the Government's record in this area with inflation continuing to run at approximately 1 5 per cent to 1 6 per cent and the latest consumer price index figures showing an increase of the order of 6 per cent, one might be forgiven for asking how much success the Government has had in reducing inflation. I believe that Government decisions such as the fiasco over the devaluation and revaluations of the Australian currency have contributed directly to the staggering increase in the cost of living in Australia over the past 15 months. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development reported late in 1976 that the devaluation decision had done drastic harm to Australia's prospects for future economic recovery. 
I wish to turn now to the area of industrial relations. I think it is true to say that Government policy in industrial relations consists mainly of attacking the Australian trade union movement. That is evident in the Government's attempts to blame all of Australia's economic problems on the trade union movement. It is evident in the Government's approach to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, arguing that trade unionists should not be compensated for increases in the cost of living. Of course, much of the cost of living increase has resulted from deliberate Government economic policy. It is evident in the coming introduction of the Industrial Relations Bureau, a body which will serve only to worsen the industrial relations climate in this country. If honourable senators talk to members of the trade union movement in this countrythey do not have to talk to the extremist unions; they can talk to what people consider to be moderate unions- they will find out that a confrontation is coming as a result of the introduction of this Bureau. The trade union movement sees it as a strong arm of the Government, and is not prepared to tolerate it. Instead of the co-operation between the Government, employers and employees that was promised by this Government in November and December 1975, at present the Australian industrial relations scene is characterised by mud-slinging and confrontation. Admittedly this is not one-sided; it is two-sided. But I believe that much of it is the result of the abuse that has been hurled at the trade union movement, particularly by Ministers such as  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport. Because of the things I have pointed out tonight, I think that the Government's record in industrial relations is almost as bad as its record on the economy. It shows a string of broken promises, and the worst one is its failure to honour its commitment to wage indexation. 
I wish to deal briefly with education because I believe that education has gone backwards under this Government. We should look at the fiasco that has occurred in relation to the tertiary education allowances paid to students when the Government was forced to increase the allowances after massive public pressure. Education spending has not kept pace with the rate of inflation in Australia over the past 12 to 15 months, and I think that applies particularly to technical education expenditure. It has increased by only 7.5 per cent over the last 12 months while the rate of inflation, as I have mentioned previously, has been 15 per cent to 16 per cent. Thanks to devaluation, it is likely to go even higher. We have the scandalous situation where institutions like the Sydney Technical College, which is dilapidated, poorly equipped and out of date, are continuing to be used in the last quarter of the 20th century. As I said earlier, the Government's attitude to education is a complete reversal of the priority that was accorded to it by the previous Labor Government. 
In the area of social security, we had the scandal over not paying unemployment benefit to school leavers for 6 weeks, and the harsh Government action in not paying unemployment benefit for 6 weeks to those who voluntarily left their jobs. We have had the savage dole bludger campaign waged by this Government. I noticed tonight  Senator Durack  referred to that when replying to  Senator Button.  I have talked recently to young people who have left school. Only last week I spoke to a young person who said that he had chosen his occupation when he was 15 years of age but when he had done his Higher School Certificate that occupation was not open to him. He went back to school for another year and got a better pass but the occupation still was not open to him and at the moment he is unemployed. But he said: 'Do not call me a dole bludger. I have trained since I was 1 5 years of age for a particular job and I am not going to take a menial job. ' Yet tonight  Senator Durack  said that such people should become accustomed to those menial jobs. 
We have seen the ending of the Austraiian Assistance Plan and the attempt to hive off all responsibility on to the shoulders of State governments, none of which is able to meet the cost of this essential welfare service. In my own State of New South Wales, if we want to keep the Australian Assistance Plan going we face a huge cost. A lot of the people involved in the scheme have suggested that the Federal Government should be prepared to continue to finance the scheme for at least a limited period. They have said that the Federal Government should have been prepared to say: 'We will pay for the Australian Assistance Plan for another twelve or eighteen months so that the State governments can gradually work out their finances to see whether they can assist in this scheme'. Of course, this has not happened. Also, under this Government, in the past twelve to fifteen months Aborigines have suffered, as have other disadvantaged minorities in the Australian community. We only have to look at the last Budget to see that illustrated, when $33m was cut from expenditure proposed for Aboriginal welfare services, housing and the like. This represents a return to the pre- 1972 ideas so far as the Aborigines and their needs are concerned. 
In the area of health, Medibank has been destroyed under the Fraser Administration. I believe there will be a campaign on Medibank in the future and that it is going to be said that Medibank as it is now is inefficient, that costs are rising and that therefore something will have to be done about it. I was talking to some officers of Medibank the other day and they pointed out to me the staggering problems they now have because of the reintroduction of the private health schemes. I do not have time tonight to deal with all those problems. I just want to mention one. Under the previous Medibank scheme every person in Australia was given a card and a number. The majority of people kept this. There are now some people, especially migrants or people who are working in factories where a decision was taken that everybody should switch to another scheme, who still have their Medibank cards. Whenever they are injured or go to the doctor and the doctor asks them what scheme they belong to they do not know, but they have their Medibank card and they quote their Medibank number. The Medibank officials are still trying to check whether someone who makes a claim is a member. Therefore, we are paying out a fortune, not because of inefficiency but because the Government changed the scheme. I believe also that health services generally are being allowed to deteriorate, as they were between 1949 and 1972. 
I want to deal briefly with the matter that  Senator Steele  Hall raised tonight, that is, the Government's federalism policy. The Australian community has witnessed the deterioration of Federal and State relations to a new low point. Indeed, the Fraser-Carrick federalism policy, much heralded by the Government parties, was a contributing factor to the defeat ofthe LiberalCountry Party Government in the State elections in New South Wales. Of course, what has happened is that costs have been shifted to the State governments and away from the Federal Government. This is hurting the Australian people and it is hurting all the State governments throughout Australia. In fact, the outstanding critics of this Government's federalism policy today are the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  and the Liberal Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court. In long and involved letters both these Premiers, in concert with their fellows in the other 4 States, have roundly condemned Fraser federalism. They say that this policy is totally unsatisfactory to meet the needs of the Australian people in the last quarter of the 20th century. 
The latest fiasco in the federalism saga is in the Federal and State area of housing. The proposal by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to increase the rate of interest applicable for public housing is one which is deserving of the strongest condemnation because it will force all State Housing Ministers to increase the rents on public housing for low income earners. This means that these people will have to face the additional interest burden that has been imposed by this Government in Canberra. I think this is typical of the Fraser Government's attitude towards the poor, that is, that no future help is to be extended. Another example of this, as I mentioned previously, was the axing of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
I want to turn away from domestic issues now and go on to some areas in the international arena- to matters relating to foreign affairsbecause on this issue this Government to date has a dismal track record. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has attempted to paint Australia into a corner so far as Sino-Soviet relations are concerned. He has been rebuffed by his parliamentary colleagues on the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I think if any honourable senators were to read a copy of that Committee's report on Australia's involvement in the Indian Ocean they would see the criticism under which  Mr Malcolm  Fraser has come from all parties represented in this Senate. He has been criticised in the media and by the general public. The great Indian Ocean threat has turned out to be mythical.  President  Carter's initiative to completely demilitarise the Indian Ocean is now supported by  Mr Callaghan,  the British Prime Minister. This flies directly in the face of the Fraser policy on the Indian Ocean, which is favourably disposed towards an increased American presence. When 
I read  President  Carter's statement on this issue it made me wonder about the effect of conservative government policies on foreign relations and to observe how those policies have been drastically altered in Australia by the actions of foreign powers. We ought to cast our minds back to the issues relating to Suez, China, Vietnam and now the Indian Ocean to see how Australian foreign policy can be changed overnight by the policies of a foreign government. I do not think this Government has taken any new initiatives whatsoever in foreign affairs. It has largely ignored relationships with the Third World, which I think are terribly important and were considered to be so under the previous Labor Administration. 
In the recent White Paper on defence, to which  Senator Kilgariff  referred tonight, what in fact this Government did and what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser did was to ask for a realistic reassessment of Australia's defence needs. This reassessment was going to be used for defence planning for the next 5 years and for the development of a rolling program for defence equipment to be based on this 5 year program. What did we see when the Senate looked at this White Paper on defence? We saw a White Paper very similar to the White Papers that were brought in by Lance Barnard and Bill Morrison when they were Labor Ministers for Defence in a Labor government. In the White Paper presented by the Fraser Government the forward defence concept was out; the stationing of Australian troops overseas was out; and, in fact, the realistic assessment that was put down was that Australia faced no direct threat at this time. In actual fact, most of the initiatives, especially those in relation to important issues such as the Sino-Soviet dispute that I mentioned or the presence of super powers in the Indian Ocean, have been shown to be tailored to lead to greater instability, less co-operation and a heightened threat of conflict in our area. 
In contradiction of what spokesmen for the Government have said, the Government's program is not one which is designed to increase the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people. Nor is it one which will give people an opportunity to make their own choices and to live their own lives. How can one possibly be afforded the opportunity to make decisions or individual choices or be said to be equal with his fellows if he is unemployed, especially if he is young and unemployed, or if he is a new Australian and unemployed? These people are among the growing dispossessed, neglected minority in this country. I do not think it can be said either that this Government seeks to avoid unwarranted intrusion or to protect the individual liberties of people, especially when one looks at the harassment of people receiving social security benefits at the behest of Government policy, or at the looming industrial relations bureau which, as I said before, is going to be used to act as a strong arm of government in dealing with trade unions. 
Finally, if one looks at the Government's minuscule program which is outlined in  Her  Majesty's Speech one sees that it cannot be described as reformist in any sense of the word. It does not seek to improve the quality of life of Australians; rather, it seeks to maintain the status quo. Initiatives are not being taken to assist those people most in need. If such initiatives were thought desirable by the Government, programs such as the Australian Assistance Plan would not have been discontinued; they would have been continued. Further steps would have been taken to abolish the means test on pensions. Funds for public housing would not have been kept at a low level; rather, they would have been increased. Funding for Aboriginal welfare would not have been slashed; it would have been increased. If the Government really wanted to improve the quality of life of Australians and to afford Australians a better choice in terms of where they work and live, the decentralisation and development programs, especially those related to New South Wales in the BathurstOrange and Albury-Wodonga areas, would not have been cut back to the bone; rather, they would have been pushed forward vigorously. In short, the Government's program, which we will see come to fruition over the next 12 months, gives little comfort to the growing numbers of unemployed, to those Australians whose jobs are threatened by government economic policy or to the overwhelming majority of Australians who seek to see the country improve and taken forward. It gives comfort only to those who believe that the status quo should be maintained at all costs and who, for reasons of self-interest, fear change which might threaten their vested interests. 
I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress to pensioners. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in age and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impell your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to- 
.  Require each quarterly percentage increase in the consumer price index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the consumer price index will in no way result in reduction in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is also directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs arises out of the answer to the question asked by  Senator McLaren.  Is the Minister aware that the Government's position on the current situation with respect to super power naval presence in the Indian Ocean is currently at variance with the attitudes of both the United States and Britain? In view of this, is the Government prepared to review its attitude to the Indian Ocean situation with a view to bringing it into line with recent developments? 
We are debating a ministerial statement on foreign policy that was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in another place on 15 March. On reading the Minister's statement, it becomes apparent that the Government is aiming to be deliberately vague on foreign policy. This is evident in Australia's foreign policy position on a global basis, on a regional basis and even in our bilateral relations with certain countries. Before I deal with the policy statement, I wish to make a few comments about some of the remarks that have been made by honourable senators in this debate this afternoon and this evening.  Senator Wheeldon  spoke for some time on the recent elections in India and what the result means. I certainly agree with him that it was a victory for democracy. It was my privilege to be with  Senator Wheeldon  and other honourable senators in India early last year. When we came back from that visit I think all of us had the impression that democracy in India was on the decline. We did not think that free elections would be held in the near future. We took up the case of the  Chairman  of the Socialist Party, George Fernandes, who was gaoled in India - 
As  Senator Mulvihill  prompts me, he was  President  of the All Indian railways union. I know that  Senator Mulvihill  would have great interest in that aspect. We certainly came back from India with the opinion that Fernandes had taken the right stand in deciding that he would not take part in the election campaign that was about to be held because he thought that he could not campaign from detention in gaol and that the elections would be rigged. However, wiser heads prevailed and the Socialist Party of India decided that it would take part in the election campaign as part ofthe coalition which stood against the Congress Party. People have said that if someone campaigns from gaol in India that is a mark of respect and history bears this out. It is now history that Fernandes won his seat from gaol by over 300 000 votes and that the coalition parties were successful. Regardless of whether one supports Fernandes or the Congress Party the election result is certainly a great turnaround from the position we saw in India and a great victory for democracy not only in that part of Asia but throughout the world. 
I also wish to comment on some of the remarks that  Senator Young  just made.  Senator Wriedt  also mentioned the same matter earlier in the debate. I refer to that section of the foreign policy statement that dealt with the United States. I too wish to quote it in part because I think  Senator Young  put the wrong interpretation on it and  Senator Wriedt  put the best interpretation on it. That section reads: 
I turn now to our relations with the United States. The first thing to be said about them is that the uncertainty about the future course of Australian policy, he doubts, reservations and acrimony which were so much a feature ofthe previous Government's dealings with the United States, have been removed. 

 Senator Young quoted further but I will stop there. I believe that that part of the Minister's statement is nonsense. I looked for a quotation this afternoon, but could not find it, from a former U.S. Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Marshall  Green, who said that after an initial period of some difficulty with the new Labor Government he felt that relations between the 2 countries, the United States of America and Australia under that government, perhaps had never been better and had never been more frank. That ought to be said now and put on the record because that part of the Minister's speech was certainly quoted out of context by  Senator Young  tonight. Fifteen months after coming to office the Minister introduced this foreign policy statement with which, because of its vague and general nature, we on this side of the chamber do not find much to disagree. I think that our Foreign Minister has been obliged to be deliberately vague in this statement. This has enabled him to gloss over some of what I consider to be Government mistakes in foreign policy over the last year or so. The most obvious failures have been with respect to our attitude on the Indian Ocean, our policy on the Sino-Soviet dispute and our relationship with Japan and with the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. The Minister in his statement said: 
. as a people we have tended to approach foreign policy with a short term, improvising outlook. We now need to learn to think strategically and in terms of decades, rather than tactically and in terms of instant solutions- and we need to do so urgently. 
I would not disagree with that point. Unfortunately, despite the Minister's statement, the Government shows no signs of having learnt the truth of these words because it continues to be wrong-footed on foreign policy and overtaken on international developments. The best example is in respect of the Indian Ocean. We have had recent statements by  President  Carter and the Prime Minister of Great Britain,  Mr Callaghan,  demonstrating the thinking of the major Western countries on the Indian Ocean. Both statements are at great variance with the thinking of the Australian Government. That is because  President  Garter and  Mr Callaghan  have adopted a more realistic approach to and enlightened position on the need for the Indian Ocean to be a zone of peace, free from military presence, different from the Indian Ocean with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  seem to be so obsessed. Just as previous LiberalNational Country Party governments were continually wrong-footed on issues such as Suez, the recognition of China, Vietnam and the aftermath of Vietnam, this Government is showing that it is equally unable to discern friends in the international arena. 
I wish now to deal very briefly with SinoSoviet relations because in the first few months of this Government's Administration- or maadminstration- a continual outpouring of statements from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence warned us of the danger of the Soviet military threat. 1 remember one night listening to the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  in another place mention the danger of Soviet submarines off the coast of New Zealand. When this was investigated the 'submarines' turned out to be whales, and not secret submarines that were rendezvousing at night with Russian vessels. At the time the Minister for 
Defence went so far as to state in most categorical terms that the Soviet Union posed a direct military threat to Australia. This claim again is brought to the fore in the Foreign Minister's statement when he emphasises the growth of Soviet military power. However, the Minister has not taken into consideration statements continually made by political leaders in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and leaders of past and present United States Administrations that the present Western military strength is at least equal to and in many respects far superior to that of the Soviet Union and its allies.  Dr Kissinger  on 25 March last year in London said: 
United States strategic forces are superior in accuracy, diversity, reliability, survivability and numbers of separately  targetable  nuclear warheads. We have a commanding lead in strategic bombers ... the economic and technological base which underlies western military strength remains overwhelmingly superior in size and capacity for innovation. 

 Dr Kissinger also said; and the Prime Minister would do well to bear this in mind: 
Complacency may produce weakness; but exaggeration of danger can lead to a loss of will. 
Certainly, those remarks apply to the Indian Ocean. 

 - Dr Kissinger said that in London on 25 June last year. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence rejected the notion of the Prime Minister that a Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean constituted a threat to Australia. The Committee in its report stated: 
No direct threat to Australia exists at present from the Soviet Union's naval presence in the Indian Ocean, nor is there a threat of Soviet interdiction to the multi-national merchant fleets that ply their trade throughout the region. 
Of course, as  Senator Knight  knows, because he was a member of that Committee along with me. some of the arguments that were being put up by the Prime Minister were found to be untrue. One of the main arguments was based on ship days. If a Soviet whaling vessel, fishing vessel or oiling vessel went into the Indian Ocean and was there for 10 days, this was counted as 10 ship days to be added to a total to prove the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean. But if the USS  Enterprise  entered the Indian Ocean for 10 days, this was also counted as just 10 ship days. Of course the USS  Enterprise  has the capability to wipe out whole countries, let alone naval vessels in the Indian Ocean. The United States of America, as the Committee found, has a low commitment in the Indian Ocean. That country wants to project a perception of power in the littoral States in the Indian Ocean. One of the main things we found was that it was not only the super powers that were trying to project this perception of power in the Indian Ocean. In fact. France has the largest fleet in the Indian Ocean at the present time. 
I turn to deal with relations with the People 's Republic of China. I believe that the Prime Minister's visit to China in June 1976 resulted in Australia being made somewhat of a laughing stock in the eyes of the international diplomatic community. The Prime Minister when in China put forward the notion "of a 4-power anti-Soviet military alliance between the U.S.A., Japan, China and Australia. What happened with this? It was rejected by all concerned and regarded for what it was- something of a pipe dream. The Prime Minister at the time demonstrated his complete ignorance of Sino-Japanese relations and his insensitivity to the realities of politics of north-east Asia. 
Let me deal with what the foreign affairs policy statement has to say in regard to Japan. Australia's relations with Japan under the present Government exemplify the traditional Liberal-National Country Party tendency to reduce foreign policy to an adjunct of trade policy, as  Senator Wheeldon  stated this afternoon. I think that we ought to look at examples of this tendency. There are quite a few of them. The Japan-Australia ministerial talks were used as a device for attacking the Australian trade union movement. It was continually attacked. One only has to look at some of the speeches made during the Western Australian State election to realise how the talks were used for this purpose. We had the threat of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  of a commodities war with the Japanese. We had the ludicrous stand of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on the export of minerals and other natural resources. What he implied was that we should export or the Japanese military would descend and take them from us. Finally in relation to Japan there was the threat to withhold fishing rights from Japanese vessels. This threat contains the seeds of a potentially disastrous split between Australia and Japan. Naturally, the Japanese fear dislocations to their economic activity in any sphere, but particularly in this sphere. I believe that  Mr Sinclair  did Australia a great disservice on this issue as he has done on so many other issues. 
I now turn to deal with regional issues. Once again, we have had the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  using his delicate approach to ASEANthe Association of South East Asian Nations. 
What he did there was to make a request for observer status for Australia at the ASEAN summit meeting early in 1976. I believe that this seriously embarrassed the Association members. Of course, the request was denied by all the ASEAN countries. The Government then indicated that it wished to see closer relations between Australia and ASEAN. Unfortunately, neither the Prime Minister nor the Foreign Minister were willing or able to explain exactly what they had in mind at that point of time. Finally, in July 1976 ASEAN rejected this Government's proposal for an ASEAN-Australian trade committee. The reason given was this Government's unwillingness to negotiate with the ASEAN bloc on the crucial issue of Australian trade barriers. Now, the sum total of these unfortunate developments in Australian relations with the ASEAN group is that Australia's standing in the region has gone backwards. 
In the policy statement, the Foreign Minister has also dealt with southern Africa. I do not think that any honourable senator from either side of the Senate would not say that southern Africa has become a flashpoint. It has become a focal point for international attention because the ending of Portuguese colonial rule has resulted in new, apparently revolutionary, states emerging in both Angola and Mozambique. A similar situation is apparently developing in Namibia and Zimbabwe. This Government appears once again merely to be following the developments that have taken place rather than attempting to take constructive initiatives. In fact, what we have done regarding Mozambique is to cut back our assistance program or to eliminate it completely. I also believe that this is a regressive move.  Senator Wheeldon  asked this afternoon when he dealt with this issue on a broader basis: Where will Mozambique turn now? To which country will it look for aid? Will it have to go to the Soviet Union? Perhaps it will. I remember the response given to a question I asked of  Senator Withers  during the hearings of, I think, Senate Estimates Committee A. I questioned him on why Australia was cutting out all aid to Mozambique. He said to me, in effect:  Senator, we  do not give aid to people who kill one another'. I said at the time that I wished that policy had been made retrospective in respect to Vietnam. 
Southern Africa is an area of foreign policy where the issues of human rights are very much in the foreground. 1 believe that Australia should be taking the lead in this respect. It should be using its influence in the international arena. We should be bringing greater pressure to bear on regimes such as that of Idi Amin in Uganda. Again, on the issue of human rights, we ought to make some mention of the need for Australia to develop a coherent and realistic policy to the question of refugees. I served on the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that dealt with the reference of Australia and the refugee problem. One of the decisions to which we came stated: 
The formulation of a comprehensive set of policy guidelines and the establishment of appropriate machinery should assume a higher priority for government and must be tackled with some degree of urgency - 
As  Senator Knight  says, that is quite right. The report on Australia and the refugee problem also stated: 
It is essential that there exist an approved and comprehensive set of policy guidelines together with the necessary administrative machinery to be applied to refugee situations. 
What did we find?  Dr Jean  Martin of the Australian National University was conducting a unique study- unique by world standards- into the problems of Vietnamese refugees. This study applied not only to Vietnamese refugees in Australia but also to refugees right throughout the world. Every member of the Committee recommended that this study should be completed and that more funds should be given so that we could find out the problems of these people who had been brought to Australia because of the dislocation that they had suffered in the countries from which they came. What happened? Of course, this Government terminated  Dr Jean  Martin's study because of lack of funds. I believe that this is one of the biggest mistakes that has been made in refugee policy for a long time. 
There are a number of other issues with which I want to deal briefly and which the Minister mentioned in his foreign policy statement. The first of those issues is the Australian-Indonesian relationship. What we have at the moment is a backing and filling on this matter. The Government is showing signs that it will cave in, that it is being subjected to pressure by the Suharto administration. We have seen already the seizure of the Fretilin radio transmitter in the Northern Territory. We have seen the Government hedging over Jim Dunn's visit to the U.S. I believe that all these things provide evidence of the unprincipled stand that is being taken on the East Timorese question. It seems strange to me that we have a U.S. Congressional Committee thousands of miles away looking at the problem of 
East Timor, yet at the moment here in the Australian Parliament we cannot get a select committee or even a committee of the Senate to look at the situation that has occurred in East Timor. 
I was in the United States during the Presidential campaign. I had the privilege of meeting Congressman Don Fraser who is now the  chairman  of the committee which is looking into the East Timor situation. He has no particular bias towards the Indonesians, the Timorese or the Australian Government. He is a person who is very concerned with human rights. He is a member of Amnesty International. He is extremely concerned about the thousands of people who have been slaughtered in East Timor. He has an inquiry going. I believe that there was a statement in one of the newspapers today that in fact the Indonesian Government has* said to Congressman Fraser's committee that it will be prepared to take the committee to Indonesia and to East Timor. Yet this Parliament at the moment cannot see its way clear to make any sort of committee available to look at the problem there. 
The South Pacific was also mentioned in the policy statement. A reference on this matter has been given to the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. This is a good move and I congratulate the Government on it even though it seems it has only just realised that the South Pacific area exists as an area of political significance and one in which we have responsibilities, and we do have responsibilities. I think it is worthy of mention that between 1972 and 1975 Australian aid to the area under a Labor Government increased by 400 per cent. I certainly hope that the investigations of the Committee into the area will result in a greater awareness of Australia 's commitment in the region. 
I want briefly to turn now to a couple of other matters that were brought up in the Minister's statement. I think everybody in the Senate would agree that the Middle East is one of the flash points in foreign affairs throughout the world. If we had to look at an area where there was a likelihood of a major conflict breaking out, perhaps another world war breaking out, we would certainly have to look at the Middle East. A number of members of the Senate have been sitting on a committee which has been dealing with the Middle East situation as far as it concerns Lebanon. The situation is tragic. It concerns refugees who have been coming into Australia. It concerns the killing of thousands of people in Lebanon. What did we have?  Mr Chamoun,  one of the leaders of the Christian Lebanese community, one of the main spokesmen, one ofthe main participants in the struggle in Lebanon, had a visa refused - 
A former  President,  as  Senator Wheeldon  reminds me. He was refused a visa to come into this country. It does not matter whether he is a Christian or a Moslem. The sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence would certainly have been able to get a lot of comment from  Mr Chamoun.  But, of course, he was not allowed to come into the country. I found that to be a very strange action by a government that says it has an even-handed policy in the Middle East. 
While we are talking about even-handedness in the Middle East, I want to reiterate the point about the Palestine Liberation Organisation that was made by  Senator Wheeldon  here this afternoon. We have had reports, as was stated, that the moderates in the PLO have made significant gains at the meeting that was recently held and that in fact they are now moderating their policy towards Israel. If one reads between the lines and reads the statements one sees that the PLO is still not prepared to recognise the existence of the state of Israel. While the PLO does not recognise the existence of the state of Israel how can any government deal with the PLO? How can anybody see the establishment of a Palestinian state? Surely it does not matter what our own attitudes are towards this problem, we must firstly stick by resolution 242 of the United Nations which guarantees the right of Israel to exist behind safe and recognisable borders. 
One hears a lot of criticism, from both sides of the chamber, of the role that Idi Amin is playing in Uganda. I certainly go along with people who condemn him for all the things that he does and all the things for which his regime stands. We do not hear a great deal about the leader of Libya, Colonel Gaddafi. We should look into the record of Colonel Gaddafi, not only at what he is doing in the Middle East but what he is doing throughout the world. One of the committees which I am on heard evidence which has been made public about his involvement in the narcotics trade which is now operating on the east coast of America. What we should all agree upon is that Colonel Gaddafi is one of the most sinister men in world politics today. 
I said at the start of my speech that I believed the policy statement was deliberately vague. It takes us nowhere. I think the policy is remarkable only to the extent that it is tentative, uncertain and lacking in overall direction and sense of purpose. As happened in the 1960s foreign policy is not being made; it is being allowed to happen in response to developments that take place outside Australia's shores. From reading this statement one sees that Australia's foreign policy has no fundamental moral basis; neither is it committed to any long-term political objectives. On any criteria this statement of foreign policy falls well short of what is satisfactory for Australia. I believe that only a Labor government, with a strong sense of principle and a firm commitment to ideals as well as realistic goals, can provide Australia with the perspective on our foreign relations which is suited to the nation's moral conscience and to the nation's essential needs. 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Have all the views of Government departments been obtained and assessed by the Minister on a possible booklet dealing with issues of special interest to women? If so, what is the Minister's decision on the future of the booklet? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development give an assurance that the inquiry into land and housing costs which is to be established by the Government will include some representation from the Australian trade union movement in order that the experience and knowledge of workers in the housing and construction industry will be available to the committee in its investigations? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of the adverse impact which recent decisions taken by the Reserve Bank to tighten the money supply in Australia are having on the building and construction industry? Is the Minister further aware that the total effect of the Government's economic policies has been the creation of a critical situation in the construction industry and that additional restrictions on credit are only worsening the position? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate or Minister representing the Treasurer aware that according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics gross domestic product fell during the December quarter, unemployment rose in the 3 months to the end of February, and instalment credit for retail sales fell sharply? In the light of these indicators, how can the Treasurer possibly claim that the Australian economy is well on the way to recovery? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
Is the Minister considering a reduction in, or a phasing out, of the beef research levy, which is currently being imposed at a rate of $1.55 per head of stock. 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress to pensioners. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in age and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the Consumer Price Index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In the event that General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd proceeds with its planned one week lay-off of production employees, will the Government regard such action as constituting a lockout both in principle and in effect and argue for the appropriate course of action before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of a massive slump in the building industry, with approvals for private dwellings falling by 16 per cent in March and total approvals decreasing by 22 per cent in the same month? In view of the tight monetary policy being pursued by the Government, especially on interest rates, does the Minister not agree that the prospects of a continued slump in the building industry are high? When will the Government take action to stimulate the building industry, especially as it has remained in the doldrums and with high unemployment for a considerable period? 
I rise to support the amendment moved to the Appropriation Bills by  Senator Mulvihill.  Before dealing with those Appropriation Bills, I feel that I should say something about some of the remarks that  Senator Wright  has just made. Whilst I realise that he holds very strong views in relation to the referendum questions that were put last Saturday, I think all of us should remember that an overwhelmingly percentage of the Australian people voted as a nation to change the Constitution in relation to all issues and not just the 3 issues that were carried. 

 Senator Wright also raised the matter of quorums in this chamber.  Senator Wright  has been in this place for a long time. But I must say that as a new member, or a newer member, in this chamber I have noticed that the lack of a quorum does not seem to worry the majority of honourable senators. It certainly does not worry me. One of the factors that I have found frustrating in this place is that, in spite of the fact that my work on the Senate Committees- I am a member of 2 such committees- has been perhaps the most important role that I have found I have been able to fill since I have been a member of this Senate, the Standing Orders of the Senate prevent the Senate committees from meeting while the Senate is in session. I hope that at sometime in the future we will look at the situation to try to overcome that problem. Whether it means in fact that there will be fewer members in the chamber is, I believe, irrelevant. 

 Senator Wright also made some points about the air traffic controllers strike. I say at the outset that I did not agree 100 per cent with what the air traffic controllers did and I did not agree completely with the claim they were making. I ask  Senator Wright:  What would any government have done? What could have been done? Who was going to bring in those aircraft? I think one of the best statements that was made about the air traffic controllers strike was when somebody wrote that it was presenting the Government with a very difficult decision. The author of the statement likened it to a strike of brain surgeons, because it did not matter what was done, whether people were gaoled or whatever they were threatened with, as there was nobody else in the community sufficiently qualified to keep bringing in the aircraft and to take the place of the air traffic controllers at the airports. 

 Senator Wright also made some remarks about the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. I hope that I have not misinterpreted his remarks but I took them to mean that he was hoping that the Government would go ahead with its legislation. I know that honourable senators on this side of the chamber consider that legislation to be very harsh indeed and believe that it would have led to a confrontation not only in this place but also between the trade union movement and the Parliament. I believe that the fact that this Industrial Relations Bureau Bill now looks as though it will be passed without that confrontation is a victory for compromise and not a victory for confrontation. 

 Senator Wright quoted Lord GeorgeBrown at length. I have a great deal of respect for Lord George-Brown also. Lord George-Brown might have known that in the United Kingdom 10 per cent of the population own 73 per cent of the wealth. Perhaps that explains why the trade union movement in Britain has been so tough in its attitude and has been so much more militant than has been the trade union movement in this country. 
As I said earlier, I support the amendment moved by  Senator Mulvihill.  This debate on the appropriation legislation gives us all an opportunity to review the Government's progress or its lack of progress in the intervening months since the Budget was brought down in August 1976. Looking at the Government's present performance, it would be fair to say that it has a fairly dismal record. If we look at the economic situation, we find we have a continuing high rate of inflation, a continually unacceptable high rate of unemployment, an increasing deficit, a lack of business confidence and a lack of consumer confidence. As someone who comes from Sydney in New South Wales, I know that in that city it is not enough to look just at unemployment. One has to look at youth unemployment. The situation has reached very serious proportions in Sydney and right throughout the State of New 
South Wales. That is something which will have to be looked at by this Government as a issue separate from that of unemployment generally. Let me deal with consumer confidence. I saw some statistics recently which showed that the average person in Australia has through the usual channels- through savings bank accounts, through buildings societies or through credit unions- a record amount of money deposited and available at the moment. I think we must ask ourselves why they are not spending that money. It is not that they do not have the funds, the funds are available. The Government will have to do something about the lack of consumer confidence at the moment. If one were to look at all the economic indicators at the moment one could not predict anything but a gloomy future. 
For a long time now we have seen the Government trying to blame all of the economic difficulties on the previous Labor Government. How many times have we sat in this chamber and heard honourable senators opposite say that is is all the fault of the previous Labor Government. Surely that excuse has now worn out. Surely that cannot now be said following devaluation. I think that the Government has to live up to its responsibilities and acknowledge from now on that its policies are directly responsible for the economic crisis with which we are currently faced. We have seen devaluation of the Australian dollar. We have seen continual cutbacks in public sector spending. We have seen continual uncertainty with respect to tariff policies. We have seen continuing high interest rates. All of those factors have contributed to an Australian economic picture which is probably the worst in the postwar period. I think that the Government's incapacity to deal adequately with the situation is not confined specifically to the economy only; I think it can be said of virtually any area of public activity which comes under the national Government s jurisdiction. It goes right across from the area of foreign affairs to health and social welfare and Federal-State relations. These are some of the matters to which I hope to refer later in my remarks. 
In the area of foreign affairs, we have seen continuing procrastination in relation to the situation in East Timor. The Government parties are split on that issue. We have heard some of the speeches that have been made already in this chamber on East Timor. Yet the Government has been unable to come to grips with that issue which undoubtedly is of fundamental importance to all of us. It is important to our future foreign policy, especially our policy towards the nation of Indonesia. The question of Indonesia is a crucial one. Our relations with countries such as Indonesia, which is our nearest neighbour bar one, are of critical importance to Australia in the last part of the 20th century. I believe that an Australian parliamentary committee rather than the United States Congress should be looking at that situation. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
We will see, senator. I am prepared to wait until the Budget. In the field of social security, the Government's attitude continues to be one of niggardly begrudging handouts. Australians no longer seem t01 have the right to social security. With the passing of time it is becoming more like charity. While we are on these issues I think we ought to look at health services. Spending on public hospitals has been continually cut back. I note that there is uncertainty as to the Government's policy on private health care in the immediate future and in the long term, there are threats of withdrawal of subsidies to private hospitals. 
There is talk of many private hospitals being forced to close. The honourable senator just said: 'What rot'! I think it was on  AM  this morning that a representative of private hospitals was asked what would happen if the funds to private hospitals were cut. I pose this question now: What would happen if funds to private hospitals were cut? The spokesman said that 25 per cent more patients would have to attend public hospitals. Public hospitals just could not cope with an increase of 25 per cent. Apparently the spokesman for the private hospitals thinks that there is a possibility that this will occur. 
I also want to deal with the question of federalism. This was the area in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Senator Carrick  promised us a new era. Federal-State relations, it was said, would never be better than under the Fraser administration. Instead, what have we got? Federal-State relations at the moment are nothing short of disastrous. In transport we have seen continual wrangling between State and federal authorities and State and federal Ministers. The States are continuously presented with a  fait accompli.  Local governments are also upset with federal decisions such as the recent decision to merge the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. We have to look at the cut-back of growth areas such as Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange. This was one of the Government's first economy measures. The growth centres were promised additional funds. Now the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has virtually said that the growth centre program is at an end. He has blamed the State governments. Surely the State governmentsI refer to Victoria and New South Wales- are not the people to blame. These governments have been carrying on this program for the last 12 or 18 months. Without federal funding these governments will not be able to carry on these programs. The growth centres will die through lack of federal funding. I think that we could go on and look through a whole number of federal activities and find many examples of this Government's lack of compassion. 
If the Budget is as predicted I think it might be able to be said that this Government has proven to be one of the most disastrous in our short national history in the field of social welfare. I hope that statement is wrong but all the indications we have been given so far seem to be leading that way. 
I want now to deal specifically with a couple of areas in which the national Government has responsibility. The first one came before Estimates Committee A, of which I am a member, which dealt with the Department of Administrative Services. I refer to electoral matters. Recently Professor Don Aitken, Professor of Politics at Macquarie University, suggested a national referendum day for Australia. I think this proposal merits some scrutiny. Some attention should be given to the process by which the Australian Constitution can be changed. I think that Professor Aitken 's proposal should be welcomed at the very least because it breathes fresh air into one of the most vital areas of the democratic process. I think this is especially true at a time when we have seen all the referendum issues supported by a large majority of Australians. A national referendum day for consideration of a proposal or proposals on which both major parties agree would be something that would benefit the Australian community. 
Just on 12 months ago in debate on Appropriation Bills I raised the matter of electoral reform. I think that we, as a Senate, should be looking at a number of things. I think that we should be looking at improved methods of voting. We should be looking at machinery matters. We should be looking at computerised voting as happens in western Europe. We should be looking at voting by means of machines as in the United States. All these things would lead to improved methods of counting. We would get earlier results and the elimination of doubts and uncertainties over a period of weeks about what sort of national or State government we would have. I think one has to look only at the United States, Great Britain or western Europe to see how quickly results are able to be obtained. In most cases the results are usually obtained within 24 hours. Considering the large numbers of people voting in those countries it is easy to realise that our electoral system is archaic and out of date. 
We have to look back only to 1 975 when many of the House of Representatives and Senate seats were in doubt to see how long the count took. I know that in New South Wales the Senate count for the position with which I was involved took approximately 2 months from the date of the ballot. I think that everybody here would agree that that was too long. I think that most people in this chamber would agree on some of the methods with which we could get over this situation. I am referring to increased deposits to take into account the inflation that has occurred. I think that probably we would all agree that we need more nominators from different federal electorates or all federal electorates within a State to really prove that a Senate candidate has support throughout the State. I think we would all agree that perhaps we should be voting for a lower number of people in a Senate ballot. The situation which we have had twice now in New South Wales, where people have had to fill in 70-odd squares the first time and 50-odd squares the next time, has turned the method of election into somewhat of a lottery. 1 think that when an election for the Senate is turned into some sort of lottery the end result is a downgrading of the standard of this chamber. We have also seen the election in New South Wales that went through May and June 1976 and the Tasmanian election that took place in December 1976. These are examples of ballots that took weeks and weeks to finalise. 
There are pressing reasons, therefore, on the basis of this evidence, for overhauling the methods by which Australian cast their ballots. I know that in New South Wales, under a Liberal Government, there already have been some improvements. In the last State election in New South Wales we saw some of these improvements. One was that the polls closed at 6 o'clock. I do not know whether any honourable senators here worked on the referendum last Saturday. Any who did would agree that there is a very good case for the polling places to close at 6 o'clock, especially for elections held in the winter months. 
I think there are also pressing reasons, best evidenced recently by allegations of Central Intelligence Agency money coming into Australian political parties and into Australian political organisations, for this national Parliament to take a long and serious look at public funding of political parties. As a former State official of a party I have seen State and Federal officials of all parties go on television and deny allegations about where money came from. It always amuses me. I defy any State or Federal official of any party to be able to work out where every donation comes from. Of course there are ways to launder money, to make it impossible to know where donations come from, especially during the rush of an election campaign. Virtually every western industrial democracy has some form of public funding for political party campaigning and/or administration of the party. This ranges from sophisticated systems like that in West Germany, to a developing system like that in the United States, or the more elementary system that is just beginning to be evolved in the United Kingdom. 
As I said, in the United States this system is just starting. People are able to go into the election commission office in Washington- I went there myself- and for 10c a copy get a list of all the donations being made to any of the candidates who are running in the primary elections for the Presidency of the United States. For 10c a copy I was able to learn of donations as small as $10. The lists were being printed every day. The electoral commission office in Washington was filled with members of the Press and members of the public who were perusing the information to find out from where campaign donations were coming. I know that people will say that it is only for the presidency of the United States; it is a separate question. I believe that in time there will be public funding throughout the electoral system in the United States. Virtually every advanced industrial nation acknowledges the importance of political parties to the democratic system. Those countries provide financial support to enable parties to go about their normal affairs and meet their campaign requirements. I think it is high time that this country did the same. Certainly one of the things that we can do for a start is to set up a committee such as the Houghton committee in Great Britain. Such a committee could begin examining what we could do. 
It is important to note- and it is pleasing to note- that the conditions for parliamentarians and the staff of parliamentarians are being looked at by the Remuneration Tribunal at the moment. I hope- I think most members of my Party hope- the Tribunal will come down with realistic assessments of the salary which national parliamentarians should receive and of their working conditions.  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed out to me tonight that section 8 ( 1 ) of the Remuneration Tribunal Act provides that the Tribunal should report to this Parliament by 29 June. I hope that we can get that report before us shortly. When one compares the situation which confronts our parliamentarians with, for example, the situation in the United States, one would say that there is a great need for rethinking our attitudes to parliamentarians, their duties, their obligations and the work loads that they are expected to carry. I commend to all honourable senators that they read again a speech made in this chamber not very long ago by  Senator Baume  on the work load now being placed on members of the national Parliament. I believe it was an excellent speech. I hope the Remuneration Tribunal has a copy of that speech and has read it. I think that our conditions and what we are expected to do are summed up extremely well in that speech. I believe it is essential that the entire system under which the national Parliament functions- the simple mechanics of it- should be subject to continual review. 
I wish to make some comment on the matter of industrial relations, because this is a perennial subject of debate in Australian politics. Now it seems that the issue will intrude into our foreign relations, particularly with countries such as Japan. We have seen statements about this recently. I believe that there is no doubt that the present Government is attempting to use the Australian trade union movement as a scapegoat for some of its failures in the economic sphere. Union bashing has become quite the thing. We do not find any Red bogies or phoney threats from our north any more as diversionary tactics. We see constant union bashing. This has been said in the chamber before. No doubt it will be said subsequent to my speech tonight. There is no doubt that this Government has embarked on a conscious campaign, through the trade practices legislation, through mooted amendments to the Public Service Act and through amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, to shackle the trade union movement in Australia. I believe that the trade union movement has served Australia well for generations. It has been in the forefront of democracy in Australia. It has fought long and assiduously to improve the conditions of the average working man and woman. 
This Government, in its campaign of vilification of the unions, has been caught on the wrong foot, especially in recent weeks, because it has been seen to be provoking and prolonging disputes in which representatives of the labour movement, especially the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the executives of the State Trades and Labor Councils, I believe, have acted in the role of industrial peacemakers. I think this was best demonstrated in recent disputes such as the petrol tanker drivers dispute in Melbourne and the air traffic controllers dispute. I referred to those earlier in my remarks when I replied to  Senator Wright.  I do not believe that threats of gaol, threats of bringing in the Royal Australian Air Force or threats of a strong Industrial Relations Bureau Bill would have had any effect on the air traffic controllers dispute. It is obvious from the comments of the Arbitration Commission and the national employer bodies that people in these institutions realise that the country does not need or want industrial warfare at this time. 
The Government attempted to freeze wages while letting prices continually spiral. This was rejected by the Arbitration Commission. The ACTU put a plan for a national economic conference to discuss tax cuts as a trade off for wage restraint. It received a sympathetic hearing from the Commission, but that was all. Therefore this Government's uncompromising attitude to wage freezing is rejected. I ask: Why should not it be rejected in these circumstances? In recent months it has been the trade union movement that has sought to reach industrial peace. It has been the trade union movement that has continually made concessions. It has been the trade union movement that has continually sought negotiation. This is best evidenced by the negotiations that took place about the IRB. Yet earlier tonight in this debate  Senator Wright  virtually said that it was a pity that the Government did not go ahead with the IRB in its original form so we could have had a showdown. That showdown would have been at the cost of all Australians, whether or not they were members of a trade union. I believe that it has been through common sense, firstly by the trade unions and, I must say, by the Minister concerned,  Mr Street,  that we have had this series of negotiations and compromises. I believe it has become readily apparent that the Australian public is growing disenchanted with this Government. The people will reject it at the earliest available opportunity, as the results of Saturday have proven. That could be at a half Senate election which must be held before June of next year. 
-I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a 'Right and not a charity'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, by saying that naturally I do not expect the Minister to reveal treaty details. I ask: Is the Minister completely satisfied that the Australian Government has been fully informed about the role and functions of the United States facility at Pine Gap? If so, can the Minister confirm a report in the  New York Times  of 28 April 1977 to the effect that Pine Gap collects photographs of the U.S.S.R. and other countries taken by reconnaissance satellites and receives information from satellites used to detect Soviet missile launchers? 
I want to raise just one issue- I can assure the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  that it will not take very long- relating to Division 306, Overseas Service. During the hearings of the Estimate Committee I asked a question about an amount of $980,600 which was saved by the closure of 7 missions overseas. I asked whether I could have a breakdown of the figures for these 7 missions to see what was attributable to salary and allowances and what was attributable to administrative expenses. I also asked how much it cost us to close those 7 missions. I did receive a reply. I found out that we had closed missions in Berlin, Bombay, Calcutta, Los Angeles, Milan, Osaka and Hamburg. I question the wiseness of the decision to close those missions. We have closed our missions in Bombay and Calcutta, but let us consider the changing political scene in India at the moment. Our High Commissioner to India has just returned home and has recommended that we should be paying more attention to the Indian sub-continent because of the changing political scene there. I do not think we would be saving anything politically by closing down those 2 particular missions. 
Again, I find it hard to understand why we are closing down missions in Berlin and Hamburg, when we have such a tremendous amount of trade with the Federal Republic of West Germany. I raise the issue of how much we actually are saving because surely in Berlin problems must arise from time to time that require our presence there. As any honourable senator would know, it is not particularly easy to get into Berlin. I am sure it would be costing us a great deal of money not only to close down the mission but also to be still servicing it. Los Angeles was another of the places mentioned. That was a mission about which I know something. Closing down that mission did cost us a lot of money. The mission is now located in San Francisco and I believe that every week people from the mission have to go down to Los Angeles to handle the problems that previously were being handled by our mission there. 
Looking at division 306 one would assume that we have saved $980,000 by closing these 7 missions. But, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed out, we are reopening our mission in Beirut. I believe that in the period covered by these Estimates we have opened missions in Damascus and Iraq. Surely in the next 12 months there will be an increase in the number of missions we have in the Middle East, when one considers the oil crisis with which Australia is going to be faced. I raise this matter because I do not think it is as simple as it looks in the Estimates, which indicate that we have saved $980,000. I hope I shall be able to obtain the information that will tell me how much it cost to close these missions. Perhaps we will find that, because of the reopening of missions, we did not save a great deal of money. The final point I wish to make is that I do not think that in the present political climate throughout the world we are gaining anything politically by closing any of these 7 missions. In fact, I make a strong plea for us to continue to open missions in different parts of the world where we need them and to reopen some of the missions that are listed as having been closed. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. No doubt the Minister is aware of the latest report released by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd which insists that the national economic recovery depends largely on recovery in the State of New South Wales because of its huge consumer market and heavy industry. In the light of such comments, will the Government give favourable consideration to granting additional funds to New South Wales for the purpose of public investment to promote economic recovery? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of widespread dissatisfaction that exists within the Australian rural community, particularly within the United Farmers and Woolgrowers' Association, with the Government's failure to proceed with substantial reforms in the areas of meat and wool marketing. 
ls the Minister further aware that the rural community is waiting on a definite statement from him on the Government's attitude to the future of the Australian Meat Board. 
In view of this, will the Government consider expediting decisions on the matters raised. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by reminding the Minister that on 16 February of this year I asked a question without notice about the reasons which prompted the Government to allocate charter rights on the Western Australia-Bali route to MacRobertson Miller Airline Services, a subsidiary of Ansett Airlines of Australia. I asked: 
Is this not a marked departure from established government airline policy laid down over many years? Why has Qantas Airways Ltd not received even a firm reply to its application to operate a scheduled service on this route? 
The Minister asked that I place the question on the notice paper, which I did. To date I have received no communication from the Minister clarifying this matter. I now ask the Minister again: Is the decision with respect to awarding the charter rights on the Western Australia-Bali route to MacRobertson Miller Airline Services to be taken as a precedent for the allocation of regional air traffic routes to domestic airlines at the expense of the national carrier, Qantas? 
We on the Opposition side of the chamber oppose the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, but we do not oppose the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. Before I discuss the legislation I wish to discuss some of the remarks of previous speakers in the debate this afternoon. Firstly,  Senator Wright  raised a number of points that are important. He virtually said- I hope I am not misinterpreting him- that he thought it was a pity that the Industrial Relations Bureau was not introduced in its original form. I am certain that is not the view of the coalition parties. As  President  Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions stated, it would cause economic dislocation and chaos in the Australian community. The original proposal was opposed by practically all sections of the Australian community. There is a parallel to the original legislation. I submit to  Senator Wright  that that parallel was the Industrial Relations Act introduced in 1973 in Great Britain by the Heath Government. We know what happened with that. Britain finished up with a 3-day week and hundreds of thousands of people out of work. The Heath Government was put out of office. In 1973 before an election New South Wales Premier Askin promised an industrial relations Act with very repressive measures.  His  proposed legislation was similar to that which was being put forward at the time by the Heath Government. Of course it was never introduced. After  Sir Robert  Askin won the election the proposal was forgotten. In fact it was just window dressing. 

 Senator Wright talked about collective bargaining in the United States of America. I think he had confused collective bargaining in the United States with the industrial arbitration system that operates in this country. In the large industries in the United States- I refer specifically to the automobile, coal and steel industries- there are strikes that last months while negotiations are taking place after agreements run out. They are the sorts of strikes to which we are unaccustomed in Australia. Recently I was looking at a publication which stated that the United Automobile Workers in the United States had something like $90m in its strike fund and was asking for more money because large sums of money would be given to its employees during the prolonged strike that was taking place at the time when the United Automobile Workers came to negotiate with the automobile industry employers. I do not know whether  Senator Wright  would like that situation to arise in Australia. 
-Maybe I did, but I thought that  Senator Wright  did confuse collective bargaining in the United States with our industrial arbitration legislation.  Senator Scott  said that the Australian trade union movement should be subject to the law. I submit that it is already subject to penalties and to the law. I do not know what other penalties are needed.  Senator Scott  also talked about the role of trade unions in a free society. This is something I will come back to later in my remarks.  Senator Scott  went on to say that people should not be forced to join a union. I agree. At one time I was a union delegate for white collar workers in local government. The thing that upset me was that people would not join the union, not because of a religious belief or some other deep held belief but because they did not want to spend money on union membership fees, yet they were the very first people to get in line for award payments or to claim the overaward conditions that the union won for them. 
I remember that on one occasion I helped negotiate an industrial agreement giving 13 weeks long service leave after 10 years service. State legislation at the time provided for long service leave only after 15 years service. The agreement was worth thousands of dollars to some people who were able to take long service leave earlier than would have been allowed under award conditions. The unions spent a great deal of money before reaching the agreement. Union delegates such as myself and other people who were not paid spent a lot of time getting it through. People not in the union received all the benefits of being able to take long service leave 5 years earlier. I do not think that was right. I do not think any honourable senator opposite can say anything that will make me change my mind on that sort of situation. 

 Senator Walters told us that man;hours lost through industrial disputes have decreased quite recently under this Government. What she is virtually saying is that we have had a period of industrial peace; and that is right. So I simply ask why we need this Bill. On the one hand, we are told that we have industrial chaos and, on the other hand, we are told that we have a period of industrial peace, with a decrease in the number of man hours lost. 

 Senator Walters also mentioned the remarks that were made by  Mr Cameron  in another place. I suggest that those remarks were made when  Mr Cameron  was speaking about the legislation in the form in which it was to be introduced and not about the legislation which is now before the Senate. Of course,  Senator Walters  referred to the Medibank strike. I would say that there is a difference between a strike over an issue like Medibank and the situation about which  Mr Cameron  was talking. If there is a concerted effort by any legislation to smash the trade union movement in this country then I am sure that the trade union movement will completely unite as a body and defeat that legislation in the same way as the trade union movement in Great Britain did in 1973. 

 Senator Walters went on to say that  Mr Hawke  has acknowledged that penalties should exist. I would like to see where  Mr Hawke  has said that he believes that penalties should exist in relation to the trade union movement.  Senator Walters  finally talked about the legislation on individual rights which will be brought into the Parliament in the Budget session. She gave the impression that that legislation would be brought in automatically. However, there has to be consultation with the National Labour Consultative Council first. If that consultation is not going to take place, I do not know how she can be sure that the legislation will be brought in. 
I return to the legislation which is before us. A few of the items of legislation that we have seen introduced into the Senate demonstrate the procrastination of the Government. That remark also applies to the legislation which is before us. 
For many months Government Ministers have been trumpeting the coming of the Industrial Relations Bureau. The IRB, according to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  would bring an end to trade union militancy which they saw in evidence everywhere in this country. This legislation was to be the big stick. The Industrial Relations Bureau was going to be the means by which the trade union movement would be brought to heel. We were told that savage penalties were to be imposed on those unions which earned the displeasure of the Fraser Government. Their funds would be dissipated in heavy fines, their officials arrested, and their membership subject to the full rigours of the law for engaging in industrial action. A very good article appeared in the  Age  on 3 1 May, which I would like to read. It states: 

 We have now not only industrial unionism, we have industrial and political unionism . . . Trade unionism is probably the greatest force in this country today and men in control qf it have used their power in a way which was never intended when trade unions were created. They have endeavoured to set their will against that of the people as a whole. At times they have not hesitated even to dictate to this Parliament, this great democratic institution which is representative qf every adult male and female in the community. 

No, not Malcolm Fraser in 1977 but Stanley Melbourne Bruce in May 1928, when he was introducing a Bill that increased Federal powers in the conciliation and arbitration system and imposed proper controls on the unions. 
When I saw that article I decided to look in the  Hansard  of that time. I shall read to the Senate what the Leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Scullin,  then said in reply. This is what appears in the  Hansard of 6 May  1928: 
The assumption of the party opposite is that when there is a dispute the workers are always wrong and every set of figures quoted is used as an indictment of organised labour. The Leader of the Government has indulged in this type of propaganda more than any other Prime Minister has done. 
If we look back at what happened in 1928 we find that not only did the Bruce Government lose office but also in fact  Mr Bruce  lost his seat. Many people say that that was as a result of legislation that he was trying to introduce. 
The Industrial Relations Bureau was designed to be the punitive third arm of industrial law in this country. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was to be bypassed. Collective bargaining was to be put very much at risk. But what happened? So many sections of the community, from employer organisations, to State governments, to those involved in the industrial relations area professionally, to the entire trade union movement- all of those organisationsprotested at the ill-designed, ill-conceived and hastily prepared legislation setting up the IRB. What happened? The Government, of course, was forced to re-consider its position concerning the legislation. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has made veiled references to the unsatisfactory industrial relations situation that would develop in this country if the IRB, as originally mooted, came into being. 
For a long time- in fact, for many months- the Fraser Government rejected any and all of the approaches from the trade union movement which were aimed at reaching a compromise on the industrial legislation which was proposed. That was done in similar vein to the way in which the Government rejected calls by the unions, by the employers, and by the State governments for a national conference to discuss the economy. But again what happened? Because of public pressure, because of the reasonable and sensible proposals that were put forward by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Government was obliged to think again about its industrial relations proposals, and the legislation which is before us now is the result of that rethinking. 
The ACTU, which has come in for a lot of abuse, far from seeking or encouraging the situation of confrontation and conflict in the industrial relations area, has attempted to arrive at a compromise which is satisfactory to all parties involved in this matter. Moreover, the ACTU initiative in seeking to reconstitute the National Labour Advisory Council is one which endeavours to re-open the lines of communication between governments, the employers and the trade unions. Surely, as another honourable senator said earlier in the debate, that is essential if the industrial relations climate in this country is to improve. Surely the crucial factor will be communications between the parties concerned. In so many cases disputes begin, continue and many times are prolonged because unions and management, or unions and governments, or employers and governments are unaware of the attitudes of the other party or parties involved. Any proposal which seeks to improve communication between the parties which are the main opponents in the industrial field is one that should be welcomed by the Senate. 
The National Labour Consultative Council, while not being a panacea in itself, while not being a body which will be in a position to solve all of the difficult situations that arise in industry, I believe will be a useful institution in terms of bringing together the different sectors of opinion at the conference table. Again it is the ACTU, the major peak council of the Australian trade union movement, which has to be commended for the bringing back into being of that body. We had a situation in which the Government sought only to antagonise the trade union movement, sought to blame the trade unionists for our economic woes, and subjected the unions to abuse both at home and abroad. A very good example of that is what was said about our trade union movement in Japan. The trade union movement- this has become more evident with the passage of time- has constantly sought to improve industrial relations in this country. It has been the ACTU and the constituent trades and labour councils in each State that have sought to bring about a speedy and satisfactory end to the industrial disputes that have marred industrial relations between the employers, the employees and the Government in recent times. There have been many examples of that over the last few weeks, but they are only too well known to honourable senators. I will not mention them in detail. I think  Senator Bishop  has already covered that aspect. However, 2 examples worthy of mention are the petrol drivers dispute in Melbourne and the recent air traffic controllers strike. 
I hope that the Government has learnt from its experiences in relation to the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. Industrial peace will not be brought to this country by forcing a confrontation in the industrial area, by threatening the use of punitive sanctions, or by implying that unionists and union leaders will be gaoled and their organisations disbanded and dissolved. It is not by threatening to use any means at the Government's disposal to break strikes or to place at risk the functioning of the trade union movement, it is not by pressuring employer organisations or business into confronting the unions and taking an especially hard line in negotiations with them, that industrial peace is generated. 
I now come back to what  Senator Scott  said earlier about the role of trade unions in a free society and about the difference between trade unions in a free society and those in totalitarian regimes. One has only to look at the situation on both sides of the political spectrum in recent years, one has only to look at what happened to a free trade union movement in Chile at the time when the junta took over, one has only to look at what happened to a free trade union movement in Greece in 1 967 when the coup took place, to realise the importance of a free trade union movement. On the other end of the spectrum, let us look at the situation which exists in Poland today. What has happened in that country in the 1970s? It was the trade unionists who opposed the increase in food prices, it was the trade unionists who rioted against the controls being placed on them by the government in Poland, and it is the trade unionists in that country who are in gaol today because of their action. One could also mention Czechoslovakia and what happened in 1948 when the country was being taken over, and more recently in respect of the disputes that arose when Dubcek was being replaced. I submit that the social democrats and the trade unionists were the first people to be put in gaol and to feel the oppression in those countries that I have mentioned. 
Industrial peace in this country is more likely to result from unions, employers and governments achieving a capacity to reach a satisfactory solution to deal with different problems as they arise instead of threatening the trade union movement in advance. As I have stated previously, of crucial significance in achieving solutions to industrial problems is communication. For that reason alone the reconstitution of the National Labour Advisory Council should be welcomed, as I think it is. I think that it will serve a useful purpose in bringing the differing sections of opinion in the industrial field together around the conference table. It will provide an opportunity for exchanges of views and for the leading figures on both sides to gauge one another's issues and attitudes on particular disputes. 
This Government's record to date in industrial relations and in industrial matters generally is appalling. It does not lead me to be optimistic about the future. Nonetheless one can only hope that the cooler and more rational heads within the Cabinet and within the coalition parties will prevail in future and that this Administration will abandon its oft stated policy of seeking to isolate the trade union movement and will instead adopt a more constructive and reasonable approach in the future. Perhaps the Government will have a look at and maybe even consider some of the schemes of worker participation that are already operating successfully in industry in West Germany and in Scandinavia. At the same time as it is looking at those systems the Government ought to be looking at the systems of industrial unions. It ought to be looking at how it can bring about a lowering of the number of trade unions that are operating in this country.  Senator Harradine  probably will not agree with me on this but I hope that in the future we will have a trade union system more like the West German system. I realise that it is impossible for a country like Australia to copy it completely but we could achieve a more rational industrial relations system like that which operates in Germany and in Scandinavia. 
Over the past few weeks the trade union movement has displayed a commendable desire to negotiate and also to reach a compromise. If the present Government is prepared to follow this lead, industrial relations in this country could conceivably go beyond confrontation and move into an era of responsible and thoughtful exchanges. If this proves to be so, greater harmony in industrial relations can only result, to the benefit of all Australians. Let me sum up briefly. We on this side of the Senate oppose the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau because we consider it to be totally unnecessary. It is a face-saving device. We oppose it because it is a breach of the agreement and it does not provide the same powers that the inspectorate had. It is also a breach of the agreement reached between the unions and the Government, regardless of what anybody on the other side might say. As I stated earlier, we support the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, arises out of a question asked by  Senator Mcintosh  earlier in the week. Is the Minister aware of a statement attributed to the Acting General Manager of the Australian Gas Light Co.,  Mr M.  J. Williams, in which he called on the Federal Government to construct a natural gas pipeline from Dampier in Western Australia to the eastern seaboard? Has the Government investigated the possibility of building such a pipeline to fuel Australia's major industrial centres and also to provide gas for the export market? If not, will the Government consider this proposal? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In the wake of the outbreak of salmonella poisoning in infants, will the Minister give a firm undertaking that the Government will take those steps necessary to establish a national reference system on infectious diseases along the lines of the United Kingdom public health laboratory service or the United States centre for disease control? Will the Government commit itself to constructing a national reference laboratory on infectious diseases to carry out research work? Will it provide finance for such an institution? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Government considering transferring the Australian Government Publishing Service, located in Pitt Street, Sydney, to another location, at considerable cost; if so, is the Minister aware that the staff of this centre view such a move with considerable disquiet. 
Will the Minister give consideration to discussing with the staff affected by any proposed move, the future location of the centre. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Are reports accurate which suggest that the Government is to instruct the Industries Assistance Commission that in future inquiries into industry protection the effect on employment is to be given prime consideration? If such reports are accurate, when and how is the IAC to be instructed? What will the criteria be in order to protect the employment of Australian workers in industries such as the textiles, clothing, footwear and electronics industries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
1 ) What reasons have prompted the Government to allocate charter rights on the Western Australia-Bali route to MacRobenson Miller Airline Services, a subsidiary of Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
Is this not a marked departure from established Government airline policy laid down over many years. 
) Why has Qantas Airways Limited not received even a firm reply to its application to operate a scheduled service on this route. 
Can this decision be taken as a precedent for the allocation of regional air traffic routes to domestic airlines at the expense of Qantas, the traditional carrier. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of remarks made yesterday by Professor Warren Hogan, senior economic adviser to the Government, in a speech to the South Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the effect that unemployment will rise to a minimum of 6.5 per cent of the work force by next January and may reach 8 per cent? Is the Minister further aware that Professor Hogan suggested that in such circumstances a mini-budget may have to be introduced? In the light of such comments does the Government have contingency plans for the introduction of a supplementary or mini-budget early in 1978 if the economic situation continues to deteriorate and unemployment continues to worsen? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. Has the Government established an interdepartmental committee to devise a contingency plan for the handling of the dispute at the Redfern Mail Exchange? Is a member of the Department of Defence on that committee? Is it proposed to use members of the armed forces to sort mail at the exchange in the event of stand-downs or dismissals? Does this not represent a dangerous escalation in the politics of confrontation that the Fraser Government has now introduced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the widespread opposition that is being expressed by trade unionists, businessmen, State Premiers and even members of Government parties to the recently passed Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill and in view of the fact that it is apparent that this legislation will result in greater industrial unrest and economic dislocation, will the Minister consider either amending the legislation or even repealing it in the interests of industrial peace? 

 -Mr President-- 

As my colleague  Senator Georges  says, it has been a long wait not only for me but also for  Senator Tehan.  So, taking account of the time, I will try to make sure that  Senator Tehan  gets some time to speak on this matter and does not go through the frustration that I have experienced in the last week. Already there have been two speakers in this debate. My colleague  Senator Mulvihill  dealt fully with all aspects of the Green Paper.  Senator Messner  also has spoken. 
I should like to comment on two points that  Senator Messner  raised. Firstly he spoke on immigrants maintaining a separate identity in a cultural sense. In doing so he referred to the German community in South Australia. I certainly do not disagree with his comments, but unfortunately maintaining a separate identity sometimes leads to discrimination. The German community in South Australia dates back to the 1840s. I think we would agree that there was some discrimination against this community during World War I and even to some extent during World War II. Therefore I think it is very easy for us to understand the tension that has been shown in recent times in such communities as the Lebanese community, the Greek community and the Turkish community in cities like Sydney and Melbourne. 

 Senator Messner also mentioned in his contribution the guest workers scheme. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of which I am a member is presently looking at Australia's aid in the South Pacific region. It is unfortunate that Australia is criticised on this issue in the area because of the New Zealand Government's attitude to allow guest workers into that country. In my opinion I do not think that Australian aid in some instances is fully appreciated because of our attitude on the guest worker issue. This is one of the problems on which the Committee will have to deliberate. We will have to make recommendations accordingly. It probably will be quite difficult for us to do so. 
This paper is the first Green Paper on immigration policies and Australia's population that has been tabled. Therefore it is a paper for discussion and a paper that serves as a basis for developing government policy. I think it is fair to say that Australia's immigration policies for the last 30 years or so have developed essentially on the basis of agreement between both major political groupings in the Parliament. That in itself is a good thing. The paper points out that in the post-war period 3.3 million new settlers have come to Australia to begin new lives. This in itself is one indication of the success of the Australian immigration program. However, what concerns me is that the Green Paper draws attention to the fact that between 1 966 and 1 976 approximately 330,000 Australian citizens left this country to settle permanently overseas. This has to be taken in conjunction with the loss of former migrants who left Australia to take up permanent residence overseas. Therefore not only is there a loss of people but there is a consequent loss of technical and professional skills. One element in considering Australia's population that is seldom taken into account is the number of people who emigrate from this country. 
The Green Paper indicates that Australia is very fortunate in terms of underlying natural resources that might be exploited and the potential for growth in our economy. I must say that I think this growth has been curtailed during the period that the present Government has been in office. The Green Paper states that in terms of the numbers of immigrants that we can accept and can absorb we are not limited by any lack of resources. This leads me to query whether we believe immigration should be tailored to the needs of the economy or whether our economic programs should be tailored to the needs of people, including immigrants. I think previous conservative governments have seen immigration as something akin to a tap which can be turned on or off in accordance with the prevailing economic climate in the country. I do not think that is acceptable at present, and I do not think that has been acceptable previously. Therefore I think we must look very carefully at the statement of the Australian Population and Immigration Council that Australia has the capacity to absorb some 100,000 settlers annually. We must look very carefully at that, and we must look at the human factors involved. We must look at the social and cultural problems that confront new arrivals that make it difficult on occasions for the easy settlement of immigrants rather than simply look on the immigrant as an economic statistic. 
I wish to make some comments about the situation in the United States because the United States Commission on Population Growth and the American Future has done some valuable work in looking at population trends in the light of social and environmental circumstances. The Commission has placed primary emphasis upon improving the quality of life of American citizens rather than simply adding more Americans to the population. I think Australia can learn from the American experience in this area. While the Green Paper is to be commended for a reasonable assessment of Australia's immigration needs and future trends in population, I think a number of questions should be posed. They are not posed either by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  or the Immigration Council. For example, what are the consequences of zero population growth for Australia if this becomes policy? Does a viable economy always require an expanding population? What are the consequences of a slower rate of population growth for our economy? These are some of the questions that should be posed in order to be totally realistic in assessing our population and immigration needs for the future. 
Another comment should be made. I believe that is recognised in the Green Paper. It should be emphasised in any discussion of the paper. It is no good looking at immigration in isolation. We must look at it in the total context of the Australian society, especially our education and social welfare systems. We must ask ourselves: Are they adequate to meet the needs of a diverse population? Are they adequate to respond to the pressures of a multi-cultural society? I think the Parliament requires accurate and up-to-date information about our current demographic patterns and our population trends. The 1 976 census has the information about which I just spoke. It has the information in large measure. The information should be made available in comprehensive detail to members of the Australian Parliament. The information should be disseminated as widely as possible in the general community to promote discussion on these matters about which I have just spoken. 
I want to make a few comments about refugees because chapter 5 of the Green Paper stresses the need for Australia to have a refugee policy. Chapter 5 points out that two parliamentary committee reports have focussed on this need. The first one was the interim report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'The Lebanon Crisis- Humanitarian Aspects'. The other was the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'Australia and the Refugee Problem'. This Committee made recommendations which cover 10 pages in chapter 7 of the report. As a member of both committees, I realise the tragic situations that arose in the two cases that I mentioned and also as a result of what recently occurred in East Timor. Our handling of refugees from Lebanon was criticised, especially in the area of family reunion. However I think we must realise that different standards apply, especially to family reunion of these people. What concerns me is that this sort of tragedy is likely to recur not only in countries in South East Asia but in South America, the Middle East and southern Africa, as  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned in his contribution. One could visualise any number of situations. It could arise anywhere in the world if refugees looked to Australia, especially for assistance, particularly for resettlement. 
It seems to me that at the moment certain nations to our north are not only refusing admittance to refugees but are encouraging them to try to reach Australia. We must accept that a large number of refugees will never be employed in Australia because of chronic illness, age, language barriers and many other reasons that I could state. Together with other members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I visited the refugee camp at Wacol in Brisbane. All I can say is that the Vietnamese there, people from South East Asia, were certainly living in very depressing circumstances. I think we must accept that our handling of refugees does not compare with the handling of refugees by countries such as the United States and Canada especially. That was something which was brought home to the Committee on many occasions. 
One situation has arisen quite recently which I think deserves some comment. That is the situation in which these Vietnamese refugees who are arriving from our north are pointing out weaknesses in our coastal surveillance. This matter was raised at the Sub-Committee of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that dealt with the Indian Ocean region. Sections of that report dealt with control and surveillance of smuggling and drug trafficking. Recently a group of refugees spent a week looking for somebody to help them after they had arrived on the north-west coastline. When one looks at the report about which I was just speaking, it is quite farcical that this situation should arise. It certainly raises the question of how easy it would be for people who did not want to be found to land in this region. A large group of people spent a week there waiting for somebody to find them. Therefore, as pointed out in chapter 5 of this paper, there is an urgent need for a refugee policy. 
I think it is certainly time that Australia took an initiative to conduct a national population inquiry along the lines of the United States Commission on Population Growth and the American Future which was established in 1970. We, as a country, have much to gain from investigating in full and searching detail our immigration needs and our projected population growth for the last quarter of the 20th century and beyond. 
Debate interrupted. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of the Commonwealth Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That where whole or part of a deceased estate passes to the surviving spouse it should be free from federal estate duty. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of non-State tertiary institutions in the main, business colleges, is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government technical education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to an unnecessary worsening of the current employment situation for school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of reports circulating which suggest that Australian military aid to Indonesia is being used to prosecute the war against Fretilin forces in East Timor? Is the Minister able to state whether Australian military aid can be used for such offensive purposes, or is our aid program geared to the defence needs of Indonesia? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Are reports accurate which suggest that Japan is about to cut her imports of Australian sugar by 10 per cent? If such reports are accurate, what has prompted this move by the Japanese? What action is contemplated by the Australian Government in order to ensure that our sugar industry is not subjected to dislocation and hardship because of the loss of the export market? 
I support the urgency motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Bishop.  In listening to  Senator Hall,  I thought it was rather surprising that in fact he spent so much time talking about the State elections in South Australia. As the only New South Wales senator who is speaking in this debate, I intend to speak on the situation facing the State Dockyard in Newcastle. As I was reminded by  Senator Bishop's  interjection, probably it is not so surprising to hear  Senator Hall  speaking as he did tonight, because in fact what we were listening to was his maiden speech for the seat of Hawker. Quite obviously, we can understand his anger about the outcome of the forthcoming State elections in South Australia. Regardless of what  Senator Hall  says, Don Dunstan will still be the Premier after the elections are over. 
What do we see in Newcastle at the moment? I believe that we see part of an attack on public enterprise generally. The New South Wales State Dockyard at Newcastle is wholly owned by the State. We are seeing the first step in the winding down of heavy manufacturing industry of the type in which it engages in Australia. The New South Wales State Government went to great lengths to save the Newcastle dockyard. Unfortunately the Federal Government did not; it seemed to be intent on closing the Dockyard down from the start. Of course, politically there is nothing to lose because the workers at the Dockyard come from three Federal electorates and five State electorates in the Newcastle area, and of course they are all represented by members of the Austraiian Labor Party. Tonight we heard about the unions and their attitude to the dockyard. Of course, they were vilified again by  Senator Jessop  and by  Senator Hall.  As  Senator McLaren  said, in Hawker there are plenty of trade unionists who will be interested to hear  Senator Hall's  remarks about the trade union movement. 
As to the Newcastle dockyard, the unions agreed to virtually every condition that the Federal Government set down for the continuation of the subsidy. The Federal Government would not even negotiate. The Minister concerned,  Mr Nixon,  made demands to the New South Wales Labor Council that in fact were non-negotiable. The unions were prepared to accept 90 per cent of the demands, but the proposal put up was a package deal. Of course, what would have happened with the acceptance of that package deal was that the unions would have lost their right to strike. No labour council in any State of Australia would be part of any package deal that involved giving away any of the rights of workers to strike. 
As the motion states, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I am a member, indicated in its interim report on industrial support for defence needs and allied matters the importance of shipbuilding and ship repair facilities to Australia's defence needs. I think that we ought to look at the membership of that Committee and therefore at who basically supported the proposal that is being put forward in this chamber this afternoon. The membership comprised  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack,  Senator Scott, Senator Sim,  and  Senator Young  and, from the House of Representatives,  Mr Brown, Mr Garland, Mr Hamer,  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr Neil, Mr Ian  Robinson, 

 Mr Shipton, Mr Short and  Mr Sullivan.  The decision of the Committee to which we are referring was a unanimous decision. 
On the front page of yesterday's  Australian  there appeared an article entitled 'Local firms failing in arms industry'. I would like to quote from that article. It reads: 
Local manufacturers cannot meet the growing demands for sophisticated equipment for the Army, Navy and Air Force. 
A confidential report handed to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  last night, is strongly critical of local capacity to meet military needs. 
The manufacture of boots and uniforms is about the only area of local activity to escape criticism. 
The report on the capability of industry to meet defence needs was compiled by the  Chairman  of BHP,  Sir Ian  McLennan, and a group of senior industrialists. 
The report was not prepared by a group of trade unionists. The article went on to say: 
It is understood to say the incapacity of industry to supply sophisticated equipment covers almost the whole range of military needs. 
The report says the capability of industry to cater for defence needs is not keeping pace with changing requirements for equipment and technology. 
I am sure that all members of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence would agree with that statement by the  Chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. On 12 October 1976 I asked the following question in this chamber; 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Defence agree with the statement made by the Deputy Premier of New South Wales - 

 Mr Jack Ferguson; on 10 October 1976 to the effect that a viable shipbuilding industry is vital to Australia's defence capabilities? If so, will the Government ensure the continued operation of this most necessary industry in the cities of Newcastle and Whyalla. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Defence referred that question to  Mr Killen.  He replied to me. I will not go right through his reply. He said that he had had an Industries Assistance Commission report on this matter. In his reply he virtually disagreed with everything that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is now saying. 
I want now to outline the facts as they affect Newcastle and what will happen to Newcastle as a result of the elimination of the shipbuilding subsidy. It has been estimated that between 1,700 and 2,200 workers will be laid off. Anybody who has a look at the multiplier effect on Newcastle will find that between 4,000 and 7,000 workers will lose their jobs. This will happen at a time when we have the worst unemployment situation in the post-war period. We have also to look at the loss of skills involved. The skills of some of the people leaving Newcastle just cannot be replaced. Let us take the area of apprenticeship training as an example. Sixty apprentices used to be taken into the State Dockyard each year. Those jobs now have been lost. They have been lost at a time when Government policy supposedly is to encourage and promote apprenticeship training and to encourage youth employment. The Hunter Valley Research Institute, which does a lot of work in the Newcastle area, put out a report recently in which it indicated that the domino effect of the cut-backs in the operations of the Newcastle State Dockyard will be still being felt in 1980. The unemployment rate in Newcastle at the moment is approximately 10 percent. 
Yes,  Senator. I  have the recommendations before me and I intend to deal with them. I wish now to deal with the defence needs. In my opinion in the near future there will be no longer any capacity in Australia for the construction of any vessel- fighting or merchant -over 2,000 tonnes. One of the previous speakers in the debate- I think it was  Senator Jessop-  said in fact that the Department of Defence had the equipment to take over this task.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would remember, as the Committee looked at this aspect, that a lot of this equipment- was found to be hopelessly outdated and to need replacing, whether it be by the Department of Defence or by any other body. If there is a winding down of the operations of the yards it will mean the end of the shipbuilding and the ship repair yards in Australia because of the loss of the skills involved. I am talking about even the small ones. When the trained manpower is lost it will be just impossible to get it back. The personnel required to work in shipyards just cannot be turned on and off. In fact, they require years and years of training. I think that the long term effect will be that we will not have any shipbuilding industry at all. 
Let us look at the basic causes of the trouble in the State Dockyard in Newcastle. Firstly, I believe that there has not been enough investment in the future. There has been undercapitalisation. Industrial unrest is not the sole blame for the trouble. We had the skills but we did not have the capital equipment to enable us to sell our products. As I have said, there was insufficient investment. There was a Liberal Government in New South Wales between 1965 and 1976. I believe that it largely ignored the new technology and therefore downgraded the yard, whether intentionally or otherwise. 
I return to the position adopted by the trade union movement. I want to settle a few of the myths about the activities of the trade union movement in the shipbuilding industry. The State Dockyard in Newcastle was never a wage setter. In fact, it always lagged behind in terms of wages and conditions. The unions agreed to limit wage increases purely to indexation. When the proposal was put to them they agreed on having no more applications for improved working conditions. They agreed to submit all industrial disputes to an agreed procedure between government, the unions and management. They agreed that under no circumstances would disputes hold up work on ships in the floating dock. They agreed that no ship launchings would be held up. They agreed that there would be no demarcation disputes. As  Senator Jessop  has mentioned, demarcation disputes have bedevilled the shipyards in Newcastle for years. I make no apology for the fact that they have been one of the mam causes of the problems. The unions in Newcastle were prepared to say that there would be no demarcation disputes. But they did state as part of their bargain that safety disputes could arise and that they would not give away the right to strike over safety disputes and they would not give away the basic right to strike. What happened then, of course, was that the Federal Government refused to have any discussions. As I said earlier, no labour council in Australia would have accepted a package deal that did not leave those workers with the right to strike on that aspect. 
I wish to deal briefly with the attitude of the New South Wales Government to this matter. The New South Wales Government agreed to provide a subsidy amounting to $7m if the Federal Government agreed to construct at Newcastle the four ships that were to be built at the time in Japan. Of course, that $7m was the difference between the Australian and Japan prices. At the moment the State Government isroviding work to dock workers in Newcastle. It as them working on girders for the Department of Main Roads. The State Government has bought a floating dock that can service 120 of the 128 ships on the Australian coastal trade. The State Government has also given dock workers jobs involving the building of school classrooms. Of course, the one thing that it cannot give to them at the moment is jobs involving building ships. That is in fact what it is trying to do. 
In Newcastle itself a citizens' committee was formed under the chairmanship of the then Lord 
Mayor of Newcastle, Alderman Joy Cummings. It put forward a plan to save the dockyard. All political opinions were represented on that citizens' committee and they were unanimous on what should be done. Yet that citizens' committee's report was also rejected by the Federal Government. We now have a situation in which some forms of international shipping will no longer come to Australia because repair facilities are not available. Australia will lose cargo transfers as a result of that. I think I ought to remind the Senate that the $7m subsidy scheme of the State Government that I mentioned earlier would not have cost the Federal Government one cent. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended, I had mentioned that the New South Wales Government subsidy scheme for the Newcastle Dockyard would not have cost the Federal Government a cent, but that in fact the Federal Government refused to consider it. It seemed determined to close the yard against the wishes of the State Government, the unions and the people of Newcastle. I took note earlier of the point made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack concerning the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I mentioned before that the report was unanimous. In fact, there was one dissenter. The point that  Senator Steele  Hall seems to misunderstand completely is that the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee agreed, despite the strategic guidelines, that the industry should be rationalised, that the existing ship construction facilities at Whyalla should be retained and that there should be an injection of capital at both yards on a shared basis, the sharing being between the Commonwealth and the New South Wales Governments in the case of Newcastle, and between the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments and BHP in the case of Whyalla. That is the reason why we on this side moved that an expert group be set up to examine and report upon the cost and practicability of the shipbuilding proposals outlined by the Committee, and particularly those in regard to the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards. I expect all of those honourable senators who signed the letter that was sent to the Prime Minister on 24 June 1977- South Australian Liberal senators, Jessop, Davidson and Messner, as well as Senators Bishop, Donald Cameron and McLaren- to support the urgency motion that has been moved here this afternoon. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bill as it believes it is sensible and worth while. I will add some remarks to those that were made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland earlier concerning the facilities at the Coolangatta Airport. Along with  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Mulvihill,  I share some of the electoral responsibilities for the Richmond electorate and the Cowper electorate. It is a great timesaver to be able to fly direct to Coolangatta and then to be able to motor into parts of those electorates or to be able to use smaller planes to reach some of the towns where meetings are held. Usually we are on the last flight out of Collangatta on a Sunday night after a meeting of our electorate council is held in the area. I certainly agree with the remarks that  Senator Douglas  McClelland made. If I was an international visitor and had to use the facilities of the Coolangatta Airport I would be disgusted. They are archaic and worse than some of the facilities at smaller country towns in New South Wales. Yet the airport leads to one of the major tourist resorts in this country. 

 Senator Collard mentioned the Omega system to be used by civil aviation in this country. I do not know whether he is aware that the current attitude of the Australian Labor Party, following its conference in Perth, is to support the installation of the Omega system as long as it is built and manned by Australians. I cannot see that  Senator Collard  would be too worried about that. We have always played, as  Senator Collard  said, an active and important role in the operations of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Currently Australia is represented on its Council. We have been represented on that Council for some time. It stands to Australia's credit that, given the fact that there are 140 member states, Australia is obviously highly regarded by virtue of the fact that we are continually re-elected to membership of the Governing Council. This probably stems from our unmatched record in international and domestic aviation operations- unmatched in terms of safety, reliability and service as was mentioned earlier by  Senator Keeffe.  Qantas Airways Limited is regarded as a world leader in this respect. I think on the last set of figures I saw 
Qantas was the second safest international airline in the world. When all airlines were considered Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia were also in the top ten. 
It is somewhat disappointing that the Air Navigation Amendment Bill that is before the Parliament at the moment has taken virtually three years to arrive. The protocol adopted at the Montreal conference will not come into force until the 86 member nations of ICAO have ratified it. As at 1 July 1977 only 52 member nations had ratified the protocol involved. We believe therefore it is important that Australia act also to ratify the protocol that was adopted in Montreal. ICAO also directs its energies to meeting the needs of the world community for safe, reliable, efficient and economic air transport, to prevent waste caused by unnecessary competition and over competition, which is something I want to come back to later, and to ensuring that the rights of member states are fully respected and that they all have an equal opportunity to operate international airlines. 
As a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that is looking at some of the problems in the South Pacific at the moment-  Senator Scott  who is in the chamber is a member of that Committee- I have seen some of the problems that are caused by nations being given equal opportunity to operate their own international airlines. That is probably one area of the world, while I am not trying to say the countries there do not have the right to operate their international airlines, where a regional airline would certainly be much more efficient and would serve the needs of those countries much better than the system which is operating at the moment. To this end ICAO seeks to avoid discrimination between member states and to promote safety of flight in international air operations. It also endeavours to promote, in a general sense, the development of civil aeronautics right across the spectrum. 
The world conference which was held in April 1977 was the first one of the Organisation since its inception in 1947. The conference was concerned with major issues of relevance to international air travel particularly the development of non-scheduled air services and charter nights. The issue of charter flights is being canvassed in the Australian air industry and in the general community in this country at the moment. Currently the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has indicated that a review is under way of Australian domestic air transport services. Unfortunately I think it should be noted that the review is not being held publicly. As previous speakers have said, few countries depend as much on their aviation industry as does Australia. This is firstly because of our isolation from other parts of the world, especially from the developed world of western Europe, Japan and North America, and domestically, because of the huge distances that Australians have to travel between major cities and provincial centres and towns. 
I will deal briefly with the issue of charter flights. I am certainly not opposed to charter flights. Anything that enables more people to travel cheaply, I would support. I think that the Government has to look at the long term aspect of charter operations and also look at strict regulations as far as charter organisations are concerned. I think it has been shown in other parts of the world that charter operators will withdraw without warning if everything is not what they expect. They will cut their losses, I believe this will be to the detriment of our national carrier, Qantas. 
Qantas does have certain difficulties inasfar as the number of outlets of the airline are concerned. It was recently pointed out that Qantas, on an administrative basis, has to operate from Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and in some instances from Darwin whereas a huge airline like Lufthansa German Airlines has to operate on an administrative basis only out of one major centre which is Frankfurt. Qantas can also be contrasted with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines which operates out of Amsterdam only. A number of factors count against Qantas. I refer to the distance to its first stop where it can pick up more paying passengers and to the cost of its safety. I think Qantas has shown in the past that it has not been prepared to cut costs on maintenance. These are the sorts of things that worry me in relation to charter operators. As I said, I am certainly not opposed to the charter operators, but if they come in the Government ought to be looking at the long term aspects and also at very strict regulations for them. 
Aviation in this country has been regarded not so much as something for just a few, but as a service that all Australians would use at some time or other. For this reason, it is important that any review of the air services operating in this country or to Australia from overseas should be such that the public at large is involved. I believe there should be an opportunity for the community generally to express its view on all aspects of air travel. Therefore an inquiry into the civil aviation industry in Australia should make time available for the people to be able to submit in detail what kinds of services they require and the quality of the services involved. 
They ought to be able to talk about the price of air travel and the types of services best designed to meet the needs of Australia's air commuters, which really covers the Australian community generally. 
It might come out of course that we will have to subsidise our airlines much more than we do at the moment. Recently somebody sent me a set of figures showing the cost involved in flying between the West Coast and the East Coast of the United States compared with the cost involved in flying between Sydney and Perth. It was very expensive to fly in Australia as compared with the United States. This is the sort of thing which ought to come out of an inquiry and on which the Government ought to have a policy. Really, after all it is the commuter who is most important in the development of any government policy with respect to the civil aviation industry. I believe that perhaps consumer councils should be set up to enable the air travelling public to put their view to the Government so that the Government will be aware of what services are required and what the public would be able to pay. It would therefore be able to establish a better service for all commuters- not only those who use Qantas but also those who use Trans-Australia Airlines and Anset Airlines of Australia. 
I present the following petition from 70 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers, and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of non-State tertiary institutions in the main, business colleges, is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government technical education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to an unnecessary worsening of the current employment situation for school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled, the humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That where whole or part of a deceased estate passes to the surviving spouse it should be free from Federal Estate Duty. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of statements made by  Dr John  Ryan of the University of New South Wales on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's public affairs program  Four Corners  on 10 September 1977 in which he suggested that income tax evasion by oil companies importing oil into Australia was the area of greatest abuse of the nation's tax laws? Is the Minister further aware that  Dr Ryan  suggested that by registering as companies in the Bahamas, an area where no income tax is payable, oil companies are able completely to evade paying taxes to the Australian Government? In the light of such statements, will the Treasurer investigate this area? If it can be demonstrated that taxes are being evaded, will steps be taken to close the obvious loophole in our tax laws? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government been approached by either the United Nations or individual powers such as the United States and Britain with a view to Australia's providing troops for a peace-keeping mission in Zimbabwe during the transition to majority rule? If so, what has the Government's response been to such approaches? If not, will the Government consider the possibility of making available Australian troops for such a mission? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the series of upheavals and reversals in the field of economic policy in recent months, particularly the ambiguity of the Government's taxation measures, tax averaging for farmers, the reversal of an earlier commitment to full tax indexation and uncertainty over the proposed resource tax and exchange rates? In view of all these matters, I ask the Minister to give us some small indication that he actually knows what is going on in the economy by providing us with revised estimates of personal income tax receipts now to be expected in the 1977-78 financial year. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the 
Government been approached by the Premier of Queensland requesting Federal intervention in the continuing dispute between the Seamen's Union of Australia and Utah Development Company? If such a request has been made, is it aimed at the Federal Government taking action to deregister the Seamen's Union? If so, what is the Government's attitude to such a request by the Queensland Premier? Can the Minister say how the national deregistration of a trade union, if effected, can possibly have any constructive effect in solving industrial disputes? Is it not a fact that deregistration normally only inflames and prolongs industrial disputes? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and arises out of questions asked previously by  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Lajovic  concerning education in New South Wales. Is it a fact that to date the New South Wales Government has failed to obtain full funds for the adult education migrant service for which the Federal Government has been responsible since 1947? Is it also true that migrant education services are so overloaded in New South Wales that they cannot be advertised and that the Federal Government has rejected a request for funds for teaching equipment for the services? Is it also true that the Federal Government has rejected a request from the New South Wales State Multicultural Centre for an immediate $2m for language programs for primary and secondary schools in New South Wales? 
-I rise in this Budget debate to support the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  which reads: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget: 
will intensify and prolong the recession; 
will increase unemployment; 
will have little impact on inflation; 
will make regressive changes in the tax system; and 
will reduce living standards'. 
Before I deal with the Budget I point out that I do not know of the events about which  Senator Baume  has just been talking, but he did mention the fact that there are six electorates surrounding the Club Marconi that he was talking about. Three of those seats are at present held by the Liberal Party. He also mentioned the fact that the seat of Prospect was considered to be a marginal seat. 
Yes, and he also implied that the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman,  might be in danger of holding the seat in an election or in danger of holding it in a preselection. All I can say to  Senator Baume  is that I confidently expect, also as a senator from New South Wales, that after the next election all of those six seats will be held by the Labor Party and that there will be a very large swing in the seat of Prospect towards the Australian Labor Party. 
The Budget that we are debating at the moment is already thoroughly discredited, and one of the main reasons that it is thoroughly discredited is because of the actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He has been going backwards and forwards across this country raising speculation about whether there will in fact be an election. I just put it to the Senate: How can there be any sense of business certainty at all with everybody speculating daily as to whether there will be an election? This is a Budget that has already been rejected by a wide section of the Australian community, by large sections of business, by large sections of the trade union movement and in the media. I think the most recent example of the extent of the rejection of this Budget was the results of the elections that have been held in South Australia and also in New South Wales. The electors have preferred the practical approach of the ALP. They supported Labor candidates in the State election in South Australia and in the local government elections in New South Wales. I live in the electorate of Mackellar. It is a safe Liberal seat. There are six Liberal seats surrounding the area in which I live. It is a little bit like the situation about which  Senator Baume  has just been talking. 
-They are Mackellar, Warringah, Bradfield, Bennelong, Berowra and North Sydney. At the last Senate election I was elected by only a very narrow margin and perhaps I could say that that was because of the 200,000-odd people in those North Shore safe Liberal electorates who voted for the Labor Party. In the local government elections in the electorate of Mackellar two councils were involvedthe Warringah Shire Council and the Manly Municipal Council. In the elections for both of those councils for the first time Labor Party people have been elected to the councils on the official ALP ticket. We now have two official Labor aldermen on the Warringah Shire Council and two on the Manly Municipal Council. This happened in spite of a very strong attack against the endorsed Labor candidates by the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  who in the adjournment debate in the other place on the Thursday night before the local government elections were held called the Labor Party candidates, amongst other things 'fifth column candidates' and asked all people who lived in the Warringah Shire and the Manly municipal area to put the Labor candidates last on the ballot paper. 
-That is right. What hap.pened was that in two ridings in the Warringah hire Council the people did not put the Labor candidates last; in fact they placed them in a position so that they topped the poll to give us that representation to which I have referred. 
Getting back to the Budget, I shall deal with some of the Press comment and some of the scathing criticism that has been made by the Press about this Budget. I refer to two items that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  I do not think anybody would say that the  Australian Financial Review  leans towards the Labor Party. I will quote its comments in two of its editorials. One read:  the Lynch Budget for 1977 is a dangerous document. It cannot be dignified with the description of being an economic policy, because in its own terms it is not 
In a later editorial, also in a most damning indictment, it described the Budget as being 'a shabby confidence trick unworthy of any serious government'. 
So much for Press reaction to the Budget. Let us look at it in detail. The Budget's central features will mean increased unemployment because of the continued cuts in public expenditure. It will mean increased inflation. One of the things that has been mentioned is the increase in the price of petrol, as was pointed out by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The Budget will also increase the burden of personal taxation for just about all Australians This emerges, despite the smokescreen that has been put up by the Treasurer - 
Well, for all but some of the wealthiest Australians. 
I made a statement. I said that the Budget will increase the burden of personal taxation on all but the wealthiest of Australians, and I will get around to explaining that. This emerges, despite the smokescreen that has been put up by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  despite the confusion that has been engendered by the conflicting statements issued by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, and despite the backing and filling over issues such as tax averaging for primary producers. I believe that this Budget will further reduce business confidence. It does nothing to encourage investment. It does not stimulate consumer spending. It destroys any chance of economic recovery in the foreseeable future. Its overall impact will mean reduced living standards, a higher cost of living, greater taxation and less services and facilities for most Australians. 
But most importantly, the Budget means more unemployment which is currently running at a rate of  5y2  per cent of the work force and, according to Professor Warren Hogan of the Sydney University, who I believe is the senior economic adviser to the Government, the rate will possibly reach 8 per cent early in 1978. Of the unemployed, approximately 40 per cent are young people seeking work, and this is a great tragedy. Possibly early in 1978, 100,000 or more school leavers will be added to the unemployment rolls, and this does not of course, take into account those young people leaving school who, because they cannot get work, will return to school. It also does not deal with the particular problem of the number of young people in this community who have been forced to take jobs that they do not want and that they have not been trained to do. In bare numbers, on the statistics approximately 430,000 Australians may be out of work by March 1978, which is a post-war record. Of course these bare statistics do not tell the story about the number of people who would have been without work for some period during the previous 12 months. 
I saw some statistics the other day which lead me to believe that by March 1978, if we take into account the previous 12 months, there will probably be in excess of 800,000 Australians who at one time or another were out of work in that period. Already under this Government 90,000 
Australians have been added to the unemployment rolls.  Senator Baume  said that 120,000 additional jobs were provided. If those 120,000 jobs have been provided and filled there have still been an additional 90,000 people who have been placed on the unemployment rolls. There will certainly be more joining them. These bare statistics do not take into account the number of married women who would like to work but who are not registered and those people who have left school, been unable to find employment, and gone back to school. 

 Senator Baume mentioned inflation. Inflation remains high and will continue to run at a rate of 10 per cent to 1 1 per cent. The Budget Papers concede this fact and this can only be an admission of failure. I was very interested to see that  Senator Baume  used figures that  Mr Fraser  has been using recently to prove that the rate of inflation is, in fact, a single figure. He did not use the consumer price index figures which would have proved that it is, in fact, in double figures. If this Government has been able to do one thing successfully, it has been to confuse the people of Australia as to the true situation concerning inflation by using so many different indices. 
I made a prediction that it will run at the rate of 10 per cent to 1 1 per cent in the new year. 
-I believe that the CPI figure at the moment is in excess of 10 per cent. I am making the point that different scales are being used deliberately to try to prove that the inflation rate is under 10 per cent. 
I realise that the inflation rate has gone down but what about the unemployment figure? 
I am saying that the inflation rate has gone down marginally. I am also saying- I do not know whether  Senator Walters  is listening- that unemployment figures have increased by 90,000. The Government's economic adviser has said that the unemployment rate in March 1978 could reach 8 per cent, which I think will be a tragedy. It is  unresting  to note that the CPI increases for every six-month period under this Government have been higher than under the last six months of the Labor Government, yet we have seen economic lunacy, such as massive devaluations, unrealistically high interest rates and increased charges. Again I mention petrol. Of course, all these things will contribute to a higher rate of inflation. While we are on the subject of inflation, the underlying rate of inflation has increased by nearly 50 per cent in the last six months. If one looks at things like foodstuffs, Medibank and transport costs, one will arrive at this figure. This is at a time of a fall in real wages. The  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore, demonstrated the falsity of the Treasurer's claims that real wages have risen when he stated at the last national wage decision that real wages have declined since May /June 1976, using the consumer price index as the statistical base. That is not what I have said; it is something that  Sir John  Moore said. So much for the Treasurer's credibility, which is about as rubbery as his Budget figures. 
Let us look at some of the other things the Budget does not do. It provides no stimulus for the construction industry. It provides no funds for local employment programs. This Government will not re-introduce the Regional Employment Development scheme. I know all that has been said about the RED scheme but last weekend, as part of my duties, I was in the Lyne electorate in New South Wales where 2,000 people currently are registered as unemployed at the Taree Commonwealth Employment Service office. This is in a small country area. When people took me around the area they pointed out with pride the things that were done under the RED scheme introduced by the Labor Government. In this Budget funds for apprenticeship training have been reduced by nine per cent or $1.6m. There is no manpower policy under development or consideration anywhere in the Budget. This Government has no long term economic planning strategy and the Budget will in no way create jobs or stimulate economic activity. 
In the field of social security unemployment benefits now will be paid fortnightly in arrears. This will mean greater hardship for the unemployed but also it will create greater hardship for the staff of the already overloaded Department. There will be a greater backlog to be dealt with in the future. There are already signs emerging that there will be a reneging on promises for aged persons' accommodation as there appears to be no intention in this Budget to provide the promised $225m over three years. To do this would require $130m in next year's Budget alone just to make up the short-fall. There is no lone fathers' benefit, despite the Prime Minister's promises to introduce it. There is no increase in the unemployment benefit for those under 1 8 years of age. This still remains at S36 per week. Funds for pre-schools have been cut by $6m. Funds for education have fallen by one per cent in real terms whereas under Labor they grew annually by 39 per cent. Most student allowances will not be increased. Funds for business colleges have been abandoned at the same time as the Government is transferring $2m to the wealthier schools in this country. 
There has been a decrease in expenditure on health of 9 per cent in real terms. We have seen community health funds slashed by 15.3 per cent. This will strike at the most vital services in the community health field. One of the areas that concerns me greatly is the field of urban and regional development. The area improvement program has been abolished. Growth centre funds have been cut back to $5m for AlburyWodonga and $3m for Bathurst-Orange and Macarthur. While this might look impressive really it is just administration costs. The $5m for Albury-Wodonga and $3m for Bathurst-Orange and Macarthur will be required just to keep these schemes ticking over, as it were. The national sewerage program has been abolished and urban rehabilitation funds have been reduced. In the rural area, on which I wish to spend some brief time, the promise for the Rural Bank has still not come about. We were presented with this Budget as a package Budget, a Budget for which there could not be any alterations. But because of the tremendous protests that were made by the rural communities throughout Australia what have we seen? We have seen a mini-Budget within a matter of weeks of the main Budget being brought down. 
I want to spend some time on the plight of sport in Australia. We saw in this Budget an allocation of $lm and a subsequent setting up, as a result of an announcement made in the Budget, of the Sports Advisory Council. I think this Sim is too little, too late. At the opening of a fund raising function to send our team to the Moscow Olympics- I think it was in Melbourne- the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  said: 
Government assistance will reinforce the principle of selfhelp. 
Those days are gone. I would like to quote from an editorial in the  Daily Telegraph  dated 9 August. The editorial, entitled 'Sport Spoils', said: 
Those proud days when Australians won sporting gold medals as if by right are sadly gone- we have been left trailing behind countries which pour massive government funds into the pursuit of athletic success. 
The decline in our sporting standards was driven home with stunning force at the last Olympic Games. 
And in other sports there are few Australian teams or individuals who rank among the world 's best. 
Poor facilities and lack of money to keep up with latest training methods or finance tough international competition is the major cause of this decline. 
The editorial goes on to say: 
It has been shown by other countries that government aid is the only way to international sports success, which, despite the fulminations of those who deplore the trend to science and professionalism, counts for a lot in today's status-happy world. 
The editorial goes on to point to the performance of our team at the Montreal Olympics where we received the lowest tally of medals since Berlin in 1936. This is not criticism of the individual athletes as far as I am concerned; but it is criticism of Federal government policies. 
Let us look at the Budget appropriations. Under the Labor Government in 1974, an amount of $1.1 5m was set aside for sporting facilities. In 1 975, $2.65m was set aside for sporting facilities. Yet this Government has decided to cut back on this expenditure. I personally do not consider that the two figures that I mentioned were sufficient allocations for sport. I think that, if we compare the situation here with that which exists in comparable countries like Canada and the United Kingdom, we will see part of the problem that we face. A recent article in the Sydney  Sun  entitled 'Aussie Flop on Sport Aid' stated: 
Canada will spend $22m of Government money on sport in the next 12 months while Australia will have practically nothing. 
Canada heavily backed its sports to prepare for a good showing in the Montreal Olympics. 
After the Games the Government set up a committee to appraise the efforts made and results achieved by various sports. 
It then resolved that the $ 17m available for the Games be maintained the following year. 
Sports which showed they had put previous Government aid to good use will have their payments increased at the expense of the failures. 
In Australia, sport assistance from the Federal Government has almost vanished. 
Let us look now at the United Kingdom. Another article in the Sydney  Sun  entitled 'UK Games Investment' states: 
Britain's government-run sports council announced last night it would provide half the estimated 5m sterling ($7,900,000 Australian) needed to build a new national athletics and cycling stadium at Sandwell, in the West Midlands. 
That is not a particularly large area. This Budget shows the Government's lack of interest in sport and recreation. Apparently life was not meant to be easy or enjoyable. 
When we compare our facilities and our degree of professionalism with what happens in the United States and in Western and Eastern Europe we come off very badly. I know people will say that in the communist countries the athletes are state professionals. In the United States and Western Europe, talented athletes are enjoying university scholarships, special jobs in private enterprise or special positions in the armed forces. That does not happen here. This is not the full story either. That is not the only reason for success. I think we have to look at the performance that was put up in the last Olympics by the East Germans. The population in the German Democratic Republic is small by comparison with a number of countries in Europe and especially even in Eastern Europe where all people live under a similar social system. East Germany has first class facilities. It has a first class physical education program for all children. That and expert coaching are the reasons for its success. 
Dealing with the matter of facilities the Australian Sports Institute Study Group said recently when talking about Australian sport facilities: 
It is a well documented fact that Australia is desperately short of sports facilities of international standard. In fact, it seems incredible that Australia has acquired international prestige as a sporting nation when one examines the training facilities and circumstances presently available for sportsmen and sportswomen. 
First class sporting facilities are necessary for many reasons. They allow sportsmen and sportswomen to reach their optimum performance levels, they provide venues for international and national championships and other important events, they allow competitors to prepare themselves adequately prior to national/international competition, they encourage participation in spoiling activities generally and they provide a suitable venue for sporting activity at regional and local community level. 
To highlight the lack of specialist sporting facilities in Australia one only has to examine what facilities each State can presently offer. There is no indoor athletic track, cycling track or heated swimming pool of international standard in Australia. There are only four outdoor synthetic athletic tracks available to our athletes, just as there are no special indoor facilities for our gymnasts, weightlifters, fencers and others. 
The Australian Sports Institute Study Group certainly brought home the lack of facilities that exists in this country. I suppose this raises the question: What has to be done for sport in this community? In the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of Monday, 14 February 1977, as part of an article entitled 'Sport gets pushed to the back' the Canberra columnist wrote: 
Restoration, of the National Sports Institute, scrapped soon after the Liberals came to power in Canberra, is really the only answer to the problem. 
It will co-ordinate Australia's drive in amateur sport, particularly athletics and swimming, providing national training programs with modern equipment. 
It will also eventually help sponsor local tournaments and meetings and provide finance to send national teams overseas. 
All of which costs money. 
I know that, whenever this subject is raised, people say straight away: Where will the money come from? 
Recently the Confederation of Australian Sport pointed out in a submission to the Government that the Federal Government had allocated $32m directly to the creative arts this financial year and only $356,000 directly to recreation and sport. That was before the grant of the additional $lm. The Confederation went on: 
Sport contributed about $100m a year to government revenue. The Treasury received $3Sm a year from sales tax on sporting equipment alone. 
I would think that that answers the question: Where will the money for sport come from? 
I could go on ad infinitum about what I consider is wrong with this Budget. I believe it is severely contractionary. It will result in less services and a more difficult life for most Australians, though not all, and not those with special interests that are supported by this Government. Looking at the Budget as a whole and seeing what should be done, I refer to a proposal that was put out recently entitled: 'A Proposal to Get Australia Working Again'. It was issued by the Leader of the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party, Gough Whitlam, and Bill Hayden, the spokesman on economic management. It suggested that to stimulate confidence and promote economic activity the Government should lower interest rates, forgo increased taxation, protect the currency against devaluation in the future, and, most importantly, create new jobs by allocating additional funds for capital works, by encouraging local government advancement programs and by providing funds for apprenticeship and job training. The outlay for these proposed programs is in the vicinity of $800m for a full year. Some $250m of this figure would be saved in unemployment benefits and raised in income taxes. A Labor Budget would create jobs, generate carefully fostered growth and help to restore a healthy business community in this country. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question asked of him by me on 6 October, to which he referred yesterday in answering a question from  Senator Douglas 
McClelland and wherein he stated that refugees were the cause of the increased demand for English language instruction by the Adult Education Migrant Service. Is the Minister aware that 1,000 people are presently on the waiting lists of the Adult Education Migrant Service in New South Wales to learn English and that most of those people come from the traditional countries and have been in Australia for periods varying between five and ten years? Is the Minister aware that the number of refugees from countries such as Timor and Vietnam who are seeking to learn English is only a minor proportion of those presently on the waiting lists to learn English? In view of the Minister's statements last Thursday and again yesterday, can he explain why an application for $250,000 for teaching equipment for the New South Wales Adult Education Migrant Service has been rejected by the Federal Government? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the September unemployment figures show that the ratio of unemployed persons to jobs available in New South Wales rural districts is 28 : 1, compared with the metropolitan ratio of 16 : 1? Does he believe that this extraordinary regional disparity highlights the need for a comprehensive retraining and regional employment scheme along the lines of the Regional Employment Development scheme program in its original form? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the Government's intention to extend the lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank so as to include small businesses. If the total lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank are to be increased as a result of the Minister's statement last week, does the Government intend to make a special allocation of funds to the Bank for such purposes or will the Commonwealth Development Bank itself be expected to raise funds in the private market? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the continuation of disturbing reports from Uganda to the effect that the murder of political detainees is still routine- the lastest example being the apparent battering to death of a British-born businessman,  Mr Robert  Scanlen- will the Minister indicate whether the Government is currently aware of the whereabouts of any Australian citizens residing in Uganda and whether such persons are still at liberty and safe? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government regards the situation in Uganda as being serious enough to warrant advising any Australian citizen still in the country to leave in the very near future? 
I rise to speak at the first reading stage of this Bill to make some remarks about industrial relations. I wished to speak on this matter last Friday but because of the gag and the time allowed for debate I was unable to do so. Last Friday  Senator Hall  said in the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 3) that practically all honourable senators opposite owed their position in the Senate to some part of industrial l abour. I agree. I owe my position to industrial labour and I feel that industrial labour is entitled to know my feelings on the restrictive legislation that was passed here last Friday. This is the reason I take this opportunity to speak tonight. We did not have sufficient time to debate the Conciliation and Arbiration Amendment Bill last week. We were presented with 28 pages of amendments. It always seems that when we have a debate on industrial relations we are placed in this situation. It would seem that the Government wished to avoid a full debate on industrial relations. 
From the speeches made last Friday one would think that the Government wished to achieve a complete confrontation with the trade union movement. By introducing the Bill on Friday when  President  Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Premier Hamer of Victoria were still trying to solve the Victorian power workers dispute, there was very great danger of aggravating the dispute in the Latrobe Valley and making Commissioner Mansini's task just that much more difficult. However, that is what this Government seems to wantconfrontation which it believes will result in electoral victory. That is where the Government is wrong because even Premier Hamer realised that the men in the Latrobe Valley could not be replaced. There were no applicants who had the required skills ready to take their place and we were faced with a situation such as we had with the air traffic controllers. No one else could do the job. The Government could pass any legislation it wished but legislation will not solve the problem. Accordingly Premier Hamer of Victoria was extending the time at which the sackings were to take place from last Friday to Monday of this week, then to today and finally he has been saved from taking that action because the men have gone back to work, at least for the time being. 
Statements were made last week by the employer's spokesman,  Mr Polites,  when talking on industrial relations in which he accused the Government of making industrial relations a political plaything. He said that the new laws would not solve the Victorian power strike; and of course they did not. This leads to the question: Why does the Government want an election this year when already it has a huge majority in both Houses, a majority of 51 in the House of Representatives and a majority of at least eight in this chamber? I submit that this Government knows that unemployment will reach 8 per cent of the work force early in the new year and that if it goes to an election when unemployment is at 8 per cent it will be thrown out of office. There is a parallel to the legislation that was passed through the Senate last Friday. That is the Industrial Relations Act that was introduced in Great Britain in 1973 by the Heath Government. We all know what happened there. In Great Britain, people finished up working a three-day week; h undreds of thousands of people were put out of work; and finally the Heath Government was put out of office. 
I know that honourable senators opposite will say that the public does not support strikes; but, when the people of Australia realise that this Government was prepared to risk complete economic dislocation of the whole community on this single issue, support for the Government will dissipate overnight. There does not seem to be any government in the Western world which realises more on union bashing as a tactic than this Government does. In West Germany, Japan, Canada or even the United States of America the unions are part of the decision making process. But when do we get time in the Senate to debate industrial legislation or to have a debate on any industrial matters which are to do with contructive issues such as worker participation, making it easier for the trade unions to amalgamate - 

 - Senator Archer is one of those people who would oppose union amalgamation. He would be opposing worker participation. 
What I am saying to  Senator Archer  is that, instead of the type of debate that we had in the Senate last Friday and that we had on a previous Friday, we should have a reasoned debate on how we can improve industrial relations in this country. We should not just bludge on the trade union movement in a debate that lasts three or four hours. 
Last Friday we heard a lot of talk about industrial chaos. Yet the record shows that there has been a period of industrial peace. In fact, we have had a decrease in the number of man hours lost due to industrial stoppages in recent years. The  Australian Financial Review  stated recently in an editorial that there had been an impressive falling away of industrial activity in this country. I know that, in 1974, 42 per cent of all man hours lost in Australia due to industrial disputes occured in my State of New South Wales. In 1 975, that figure had dropped to 38 per cent. The latest statistics- those for the first three months of 1977- show that industrial disputes in New South Wales now account for only 12 per cent of man hours lost. 

 - Senator Archer brings up the matter of containers on the wharf. This is very interesting. The other day we had spokesmen for the Government talking about militant unions, about how unions of the left were bringing down this country. Here we have a situation in which members of the Federated Clerks Union- I would hardly think that they would fall into the category of extreme militant unionistshave a legitimate case and are involved in an industrial dispute. 

 - Senator Cavanagh makes that remark, and I certainly would agree with it. If there is a concerted effort through legislation to smash the trade union movement in this country, what will happen is that the trade union movement will completely unite as a body to defeat that legislation in the same way as the trade union movement did in Great Britain in 1973. 
Earlier this year the  Age  newspaper contained a very good article on the subject of industrial relations in Australia. I have quoted it once before, in a debate on conciliation and arbitration; but I wish to quote again the article which appeared in the  Age  newspaper of 3 1 May 1 977. It states: 
We have now not only industrial unionism, we have industrial and political unionism . . . Trade unionism is probably the greatest force in this country today and men in control of it have used their power in a way which was never intended when trade unions were created. They have endeavoured to set their will against that of the people as a whole. At times they have not hesitated even to dictate to this Parliament, this great democratic institution which is representative of every adult male and female in the community. 
The article goes on to state: 
No, not Malcolm Fraser in 1977 but Stanley Melbourne Bruce in May 1928, when he was introducing a Bill that increased Federal powers in the conciliation and arbitration system and imposed tougher controls on the unions. 
Of course, as I quoted in the debate on the conciliation and arbitration legislation on 1 June 1977, the Leader of the Australian Labor Party at the time,  Mr Scullin,  said in reply: 
The assumption of the parry opposite is that when there is a dispute the workers are always wrong and every set of figures quoted is used as an indictment of organised labour. The Leader of the Government has indulged in this type of propaganda more than any other Prime Minister has done. 
If we look back at what occurred in 1928, we find that not only did the Bruce Government lose the election as a result of its industrial relations policy but, in fact, the Prime Minister himself lost his seat. 
For months Government Ministers in the Senate have been trumpeting the announcement of this type of legislation. We were told that legislation such as that introduced on Friday would bring to an end the trade union militancy which Government senators saw in evidence everywhere in this country. This legislation, we were told, would be the big stick. This legislation would be the means by which the trade union movement would be brought to heel. If one looks at the legislation, one sees that under it unions can be deregistered. I do not know whether anybody realises that if that happened the unions would be put right outside the system which, of course, would completely aggravate the situation. Savage fines and penalties can be imposed on those unions which earn the displeasure of this Government. Their officials can be gaoled and their funds can be dissipated because of the heavy fines that will be levied on them. 
This legislation was intended to be the punitive third arm of industrial law in this country. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission can and will be by-passed as a result of thos legislator Collective bargaining will be put at risk. This is something of which we all ought to be aware. I just pose the question: What will happen as a result of this legislation? Many sections of the community, from employer organisations to State governments to those involved professionally in the industrial relations area, are beginning to realise that the legislation was ill conceived, ill designed and hastily prepared. Recently, as the trade union movement already realises, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself, has made veiled references to the unsatisfactory industrial relations situation that this type of legislation will bring about. 
We on this side of the chamber did not oppose the reconstitution of the National Labour Consultative Council. In fact, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which has come in for its share of abuse, endeavoured to reopen the lines of communication between Government, the employers and the trade unions. Surely this is vital if industrial relations in this country are to improve. Surely the crucial factor will be communication between the parties concerned. In many cases disputes begin, continue and are prolonged because unions and management, unions and government or employers and government are unaware of the attitudes of the other party or parties involved. Any proposal which seeks to improve communication between the parties who are the main opponents in the industrial field should be welcomed in the Senate. Yet the legislation that we saw passed through the Senate on Friday could lead to the trade union movement boycotting the National Labour Consultative Council. I would not be surprised if this situation arose in the very near future. 
This Government has to learn that industrial peace will not be brought to this country by forcing confrontation in the industrial area, by threatening the use of punitive sanctions or by implying that unionists and union leaders will be gaoled, and their organisations disbanded and dissolved. It is not by threatening to use any means at the Government's disposal to break strikes, by placing at risk the functioning of the trade union movement or by pressuring employer organisations or business into confronting the unions and taking an especially hard line in negotiations with them that industrial peace will be brought about. Industrial peace in this country is more likely to result from unions, employers and governments co-operating in order to reach a satisfactory solution to deal with problems as they arise, instead of threatening the trade union movement in advance of the sort of legislation that will be used against them. This Government's record in industrial relations and industrial matters generally is appalling. Over the past few weeks especially the trade union movement has displayed, I feel, a strong desire to negotiate and reach a compromise, but this Government is not prepared to follow that lead. Instead, it is forcing a confrontation that is going to place Australian against Australian- for what you believe,  Senator Walters,  will be your short term political benefit. You feel that if you can achieve a situation where the trade union movement is confronting the Government you will get political gain out of it. 
I am not saying that you set it up but that you did not do anything to bring about an end to that dispute; in fact, you did everything to keep that dispute going. 
The legislation that was brought in last Friday will, I believe, place the conciliation and arbitration system of this country at risk. As I said previously, I wished on Friday to speak on this matter and objected to the fact that we did not have time to undertake a full debate upon it. I would hope that at some time in the near future the Government will make the time available for a constructive debate on industrial relations, and not repeat the situation we had on Friday where debate was gagged and guillotined and the trade union movement denied  representation. 
I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue hardship as inmates of Private Nursing Homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the Private Nursing Homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to- 
. Make sure that subsidies paid to Private Nursing Homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the Private Nursing Home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a Means Test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-On behalf of  Senator Ryan,  I present the following petition from 64 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
The present method of valuing land for rates is inequitable in that ratepayers are paying greatly varying rates for essentially the same municipal services. 
Ratepayers in inner Canberra are subsidising municipal services in the newer suburbs. 
Since valuations were carried out in January 1976 the housing market and resultant values have become severely depressed. 
The decline in demand and consequent drop in unimproved land values in the newer suburbs resulting in the increase in unimproved land values in the inner suburbs has been brought about by the Government's economic policies applying to Canberra. 
The steep increase in rates is directly counter to the Government's stated policy of reducing prices and incomes as expressed by its strong support for the wages and prices  freeze ' earlier this year. 
Purpose clauses contained in residential leases are ignored when determining valuations for rates. 
The percentage increase in rates in many instances is far greater than the percentage increase in real incomes. 
Many bona fide long term residents living in inner Canberra living on fixed or low incomes may be forced to sell their houses and move to outer suburbs away from familiar surroundings and friends. Others, in order to meet their rate payments, may have to reduce their standard of living. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate ensure that: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory honour the Government's commitment to reducing costs by substantially reducing unimproved land values particularly in the inner suburbs where housing is used for bona fide residential purposes. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory urgently implement a more equitable means of valuing which relate rates to the costs of municipal services provided to each ratepayer. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound do humbly pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is the Minister aware that half a million migrants remain outside the electoral process because they have little information or access to information about citizenship and enrolment procedures? Does the Minister believe that the increase in the number of migrants who are disadvantaged in this way necessitates the reintroduction of mobile vans to distribute multilingual information on these matters in areas with particularly large concentrations of recently arrived immigrants. 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters seen a report that some Commonwealth public servants have complained to the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association that they have been asked to perform duties of a party political nature for electioneering purposes on behalf of the Government? Will the Minister give an unequivocal assurance that public servants will not be used by the government for electioneering purposes? 
-The Opposition supports the motion moved by  Senator Sim.  As a matter of fact,  Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator McLaren  and I were parties to the resolution, which was unanimous. I also should like to place on record my appreciation of the job done by  Senator Sim  as  Chairman  of Senate Estimates Committee A and of the excellent job done by the staff who looked after the Committee. A study of the report of Estimates Committee A for this year reveals more of the sorts of things we saw in 1976. There were further cuts in public expenditure in many areas, for little or apparently no reason at all. It is interesting to note that a recent poll showed that most Australians believe that cuts in public expenditure have gone too far and they are opposed to any more. The damage has already been done to the social and economic infrastructure of the country by cuts in government expenditure. I believe that it is a policy of economic lunacy, but at this stage I want to confine my remarks to the Department of Administrative Services. 
In respect of that Department, funds were set aside for the cost of running elections and, if one looks back now at those estimates, one sees that probably not enough money was set aside for that purpose. One of the points I want to raise is that no funds at all were made available for investigating electoral reform, and we are about to go into an election campaign with a system of running elections, especially for this chamber, that I believe is in the greatest need of reform. As far as the Senate is concerned, we have the compulsory preferential voting system. It has many disadvantages. It is complicated for the voters. It disadvantages the less well educated. It also disadvantages elderly people and especially immigrants. In New South Wales in 1974 people were asked to fill out 73 squares on a ballot paper for the Senate. In 1975 they were asked to fill out 54 squares, and of course the people I mentioned were severely disadvantaged. I believe that we. have to find a much easier system of voting for the Senate. 
Under the present system, the votes take too long to count. In 1975 it took two months to get the final result of the double dissolution election. I know that many people would say that that did not matter because we all knew that the Government had a majority in the House of Representatives and a majority in the Senate. Taking a situation such as the one that occurred in the 1961 election, when the Government finished up with only a one seat majority, in 1975 the country could have been placed in a situation in which for a period of two months nobody would have known who the Government was going to be. That is not good enough. It is not good enough when one compares it with the situation in the United States, which has a presidential election system. Millions of votes are cast, yet the result is known within 24 hours of the ballot closing. West Germany has a list system of voting as well as a constituency system and, despite the fact that the system is complicated, the results usually are known within 24 hours. Perhaps the best place to look at in relation to the quick counting of votes is Great Britain. There are 600-odd seats in the House of Commons and sometimes two or three complete recounts, yet it is usually only 48 to 72 hours before the full election result is known. 
The present system in Australia also contributes to informal voting. In the State of New South Wales, which is the experience to which I will continue to refer, 12.13 per cent of the Senate votes in 1974 were informal. In 1975, despite the campaign waged by both major parties, more than 10 per cent of the votes, or one in ten, were informal. We then had the very first recount of a Senate poll in history, and that showed up some of the many flaws in the system. I understand that about 12,000 votes cast were awarded to different candidates as a result of the recount and that there was a reduction in the total number of formal votes cast. The Commonwealth was put to great expense to carry out that recount. The question also was raised whether the casual staff who were asked to come in and do the recount were competent. I am not talking about the permanent public servants; I am talking about the casuals who were brought in all over New South Wales to do that recount. From my own experience and from the reports that I received from my scrutineers, I do not believe that they were competent enough to do that sort of count. In fact, a complete recount should have been done by only permanent employees at a central place, preferably in Sydney. Again, that is something that ought to be looked at in the future. 
The random sample system of counting preferences also I believe is not a good system. I know that it has been argued that it does not change the overall result, but every time it is used in fact a slightly different result is achieved. When faced with a situation such as that which occurred in New South Wales in the last election, where in the first count there was a difference of only 19 votes per electorate for the 45 electorates, it is apparent that the system of random sampling also needs investigating. Having made those criticisms of the system, I believe that we also have to consider possible solutions, and that is the area in which the Department of Administrative Services should be involved. Optional preferential voting simplifies the process. The present New South Wales Government is bringing in a system for the New South Wales Legislative Council. It will be like the list system used in West Germany. I believe it will cut down drastically on the number of informal votes. 

 Senator Mulvihill has raised a matter in here many times when he has been talking about reforms for the Senate. I refer to the deposit which is required to be paid by Senate candidates. I think  Senator Mulvihill  has suggested in debate that the amount should be $1,000. I do not know whether it should be $1,000 or more, but the system which now exists, under which it costs only $200 to nominate, is absolutely crazy. A higher amount would certainly get rid of the nonsense candidates who nominated in 1974 and 1975. 1 certainly question how fair dinkum were some of the people who stood in New South Wales for the Senate elections in 1974 and 1975 and whether they paid the $200 deposit themselves. It has also been suggested, I think by 

 Senator Mulvihill, that Senate candidates should have nominators from every federal electorate in their State. Again, this would be a way in which we could cut down on the number of nonsense candidates standing. Surely if one is a responsible candidate for the Senate one would be able to get somebody from each of the 45 electorates as it was then, or from each of the 43 electorates as it is now, to nominate one, instead of requiring just the six people who I think are required at the moment. 
We should indicate the candidate's party affiliation on the ballot paper. We should also look at the early closure of the polls. This has already been done in New South Wales by the Lewis Liberal-Country Party Government. New South Wales now closes the polling places at 6 o'clock, as a result of which we do not have the situation which used to occur with bad lighting, an insufficient number of booths and, between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., a lot of people voting informally because of these conditions. We ought to be looking at mobile voting booths and computerised counting. I believe it is time that the Department of Administrative Services carried out seriously a study of the use of voting machines. I know that in the past the use of voting machines has been looked at. I know of some of the faults of using voting machines. But I suggest this is something at which we ought to be looking for the future. 
I think also that the Department of Administrative Services should be looking at ways of reducing possible corruption in an election campaign by looking at the public funding of candidates and campaigns. We should look at the situation which exists in western Europe at the moment. In the United States at the last presidential election there was public funding for the first time. I believe that in time this aspect will spread to all the Congressional and Senate elections which are held in the United States. When I was there during the presidential campaign I found it very interesting to be able to go into the office of the Electoral Commission and for ten cents a copy, be able to get every day a list of contributions made to the major candidates who were running at that time for the primaries for the United Sates presidency. 
I think also we should be looking at means of informing migrants and Aboriginals of their voting rights and at means of getting the socially disadvantaged groups on the electoral rolls. The other day I suggested to the appropriate Minister that we ought to reintroduce the mobile multilingual vans which went around and encouraged these people to place their names on the electoral rolls. We have at the moment a system of election for the Senate which is so complicated that it causes much distortion of the electorate's will. The system of counting votes is archaic. These things reduce the reputation of the Senate and contribute to political alienation in the community. I suggest that a special committee should be formed. Not only should the Department of Administrative Services look at this matter but also we should have a special committee on electoral reform like the Houghton Committee in Great Britain which looked into all these aspects which I have raised tonight. I do not believe that we are about to get these reforms because I think the present Government believes that the system we have now suits it. However, I suggest to the Government that the people of Australia are becoming better educated about electoral reform and that this is something which cannot be put off for much longer. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer take such steps as are necessary to enable individual working-class taxpayers to avail themselves of an integrated system of earning income, such as that adopted by oil companies in this country, which enables such companies to make use of a procedure of income tax assessment which disregards normal internal accounting procedures. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer confirm that in order to enable the Commissioner of Taxation to attempt to arrive at a realistic monetary figure respecting the true cost of crude oil imported by oil companies in this country: 
the Commissioner of Taxation is forced to make an assessment of the crude oil prices which such companies would have paid in a totally 'arms' length' transaction; and 
the methods of assessment open to the Commissioner of Taxation in arriving at that assessment are depriving the Commissioner of Taxation of substantial amounts of taxation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer confirm that, in order to assess the liability of oil companies for income tax, it has become necessary for the Commissioner of Taxation to place an arbitrary figure on the cost of crude oil bought by such companies from their overseas affiliates in order to attempt to qualify the true income derived by them. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer confirm: 
that a separate system of taxation assessment has been evolved by od companies in Australia; 
that this system exists outside the ambit of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936; 
that the system has not been subject to parliamentary scrutiny; and 
that an essential ingredient of this system requires the Commissioner of Taxation to attempt to arrive at an assessment of the liability of such companies for income tax. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That a Senate select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates in federal election campaigns and the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance by corporations and individuals to these parties and candidates. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the Committee be contained in a subsequent resolution. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
Is the Minister aware that people undergoing preemployment under the National Employment and Training Scheme and drawing an allowance of approximately $20 per week are disadvantaged when the amount allocated in the allowance is compared with the unemployment benefit available to these people if they elect to remain out of work. 
Will the Minister give consideration to increasing the benefit to encourage more people to undertake National Employment and Training Scheme courses and to ensure that people who do avail themselves of the National Employment and Training Scheme will not be disadvantaged when compared with those who are receiving unemployment benefit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs examine the current advertising campaign of the Uranium Producers' Forum in relation to solidification of nuclear waste into glass and the permanent disposal of waste by burial, with a view to determining whether or not such advertisements are misleading to the Australian public. 
I wish to make some brief remarks about the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. Firstly, I wish to reply to the comment by the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  who said when we were discussing the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services that the Commonwealth Electoral Act was up to date and, in his opinion, did not need changing. I still submit that the $200 deposit is farcical. If salaries such as that of the GovernorGeneral need updating- I do not disagree with that- I believe that the $200 which is required as a deposit to nominate for the Senate is still too low. 
There are two other matters concerning the Department of Administrative Services to which I wish to refer briefly. During the hearings of Estimates Committee A I asked what the Commonwealth Police gained from speech processing research. The reply I received was that it was unique research. I was not told how the police were gaining from it. I have been informed recently that research at the University of New South Wales has cast serious doubts upon the validity of this type of research. The only other matter I raise concerning the Department of Administrative Services I think was raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland also. When I asked whether something could be done about the shortage of relief electoral secretaries the Minister replied that he would look into the problem. I should like to know the current position in respect of that matter. 
We saw cuts in the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. We saw the imposition of staff ceilings which I believe to be damaging. Officers in that Department certainly indicated that they would not be able to operate efficiently if there were any further cuts in staff ceilings. If we examined the estimates for that Department in detail we saw that Australia was becoming heavily involved with other nations in conferences. It certainly is important that we exchange views at these sorts of conferences. We saw improved cultural exchanges with a number of countries. We saw scientific co-operation between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Australia. I believe that this should be continued and should be encouraged. It is mutually advantageous to do so. We saw improved cultural ties with the Asian region. I was interested to note the increased number of international bodies to which Australia is affiliated as a signatory. They are mostly United Nations bodies. We saw an increased Australian contribution to Cyprus. I think all these things in the estimates were good. 
Some constructive suggestions were made about an Australian presence in the Middle East. In response to a question I asked the Minister about an Australian presence in Zimbabwe if we were asked to send forces there, I have recently been advised that the Government certainly would look at sending a peace-keeping force to that area. As I said, I believe that all these things are constructive. But if one looked further into the estimates for the Department one saw that insufficient diplomatic couriers were available to provide a proper service. We saw the closure of missions which, of course, resulted in less expenditure. What I question is the priorities in the closure of missions. Recently at a meeting of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence we had our Ambassador to Sweden,  Mr Barnard,  before us. He pointed out that in his duties he had to look after not only Sweden but also Norway and Finland. I believe that as each of these three countries has a mission in Australia there would probably be a very good case for our opening missions in Norway and Finland. Yet we find that at this stage we apparently are going ahead with closing down missions. 
In examining the estimates for this Department I noted also that the Australian Institute of International Affairs was refused its request for an increase in its allocation this financial year. I believe that this is absurd and I said so at the time the estimates were considered by the Committee. That Institute now receives less money in real terms than it received in 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. One of the other things in the estimates of the Department which took my attention was the refusal by this Government to gram additional funds to the United Nations fund for drug abuse control. The Government did not grant the additional $25,000 which was requested. I believe that at a time when royal commissions into drug trafficking and drug abuse are being held at both a national level and at a State level in New South Wales it is wrong for this Government to refuse to pay the additional funds which were requested. In conclusion, I think the Government s priorities in the Department of Foreign Affairs were misguided and that they should be reversed. I have pointed out just some of the areas in which the priorities are wrong. 
I direct my question to  Senator Withers  who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement on the  This Day Tonight  program two nights ago in which he indicated that it was not his intention to allow  Mr Justice  Fox to comment publicly on the findings of his recent overseas examination of world nuclear safeguards policy, despite the fact that there is a great deal of confusion over the Judge 's findings. Will the Minister agree that the reluctance by the Foreign Affairs Minister to allow  Mr Justice  Fox to speak directly to the Australian people on this crucial matter- a matter on which the people will be expected to vote in a few weeks time- is serving to confuse the uranium debate and hence cast more doubts by the Australian people about the Government's policy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
Is the Minister aware that, because of delays in the proposed construction of the natural gas spurlines to the New South Wales provincial cities of Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange, the Bathurst City Council may be obliged to spend some $400,000 on up-dating its gas works. 
Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the negotiations concerning the construction of the spurlines are expedited. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of substantial opposition expressed by the Australian Copyright Council to proposed amendments to the Copyright Act 1968 under which Australian authors will have no say in whether or not their work can be copied. 
Will the Minister give consideration to acknowledging the Australian Copyright Council's objections and include provisions in the Copyright Act both to permit the copying of the works at the discretion of the authors and to ensure that authors receive some return for this privilege. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to a question asked yesterday by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerning the brochure entitled Uranium- Australia's Decision'. I ask whether the Government actually imposed a charge on the Liberal Party for copies of the brochure on uranium, which the Liberal Party in New South Wales is distributing free of charge, but for which the Government charges $1 per copy at the Australian Government Printing Service? If no charge has been imposed, would the Minister agree that this is a blatant misuse of taxpayers' funds for party political purposes? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
Is the Minister aware that the ambiguity of the Government's taxation measures, tax averaging for farmers, the reversal, of an earlier commitment to full tax indexation, and uncertainty over the proposed resources tax and exchange rates are causing confusion in the community. 
Will the Minister provide revised estimates of personal income tax receipts to be expected in the 1977-78 financial year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 October 1977: 
Did the Minister write to the United States Secretary of State,  Mr Cyrus  Vance, suggesting that considerable uneasiness exists in the South East Asian region, particularly in the ASEAN countries, regarding future United States foreign policy towards the area; if so, can the Minister inform the Senate of the contents of the letter. 
Was the Minister's letter designed to put the views solely of the Australian Government or does it represent the views of other Asian countries, specifically those of the ASEAN nations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1) Is the Minister aware of widespread public disquiet at reports circulating which have suggested that the Defence Department has wasted taxpayers money in its Defence Equipment Procurement Program. 
Is the Minister satisfied that his Department has always obtained the best possible return to the Australian taxpayer, or has the Department squandered public funds, as recently alleged in the  National Times. 
Will the Minister indicate whether or not he intends to take steps to ensure that the Defence Department Procurement Program, especially the new five year rolling program emphasises the importance of minimising costs to the taxpayer. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: How much compensation, other than a trust fund for the children, will the families of the three men, two employees of the Sydney City Council and members of the Municipal Employees Union, and a member of the New South Wales Police Force, killed in the Hilton Hotel bombing incident receive? On what basis will the payment be determined? Further, will the Minister explain the apparent contradiction whereby shopkeepers who lost trade as a direct result of the security arrangements for the conference will be paid full indemnity while three families who lost providers will not be compensated for loss of future income or the emotional stress caused by the violent deaths of the men concerned? 
This will be one of the few occasions during debate when I have not had cause to disagree with anything that  Senator Sheil  has said. He has posed a number of problems, especially in the area of fishing within the 200-mile economic zone, which have huge international ramifications, especially in the South Pacific. It is an issue that could, whether we like it or not, drag us into a dispute with some of the super powers. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech, which I thought was concise, to the point, and perhaps more important for all of us, brief. I also agreed with her conclusion, in looking at the voting for the Senate, that this Government had nothing to cheer about because more than 54 per cent of the Australian people had not voted for it. 
I wish to take the opportunity afforded by the Address-in-Reply debate to raise a number of issues. May I first say how pleased I was to witness the new Governor-General deliver his Speech. I am sure he will serve in his office more honourably, and with less controversy, than did his immediate predecessor. 
Yes. I know that we on this side of the Chamber have already been lectured by the Leader of the Government,  Senator Withers,  on this matter. We have been told that for us it is a wrong issue; that, in fact, we are only damaging ourselves in pursuing it. However, I believe that the people of Australia are just beginning to realise that we have been right all the time on this matter. I was one who believed after the elected Government was sacked in 1975 and convincingly defeated at the polls that the majority of Australians agreed with Kerr's actions; but at least 40 per cent violently disagreed with them. They knew that the Governor-General had not informed the Prime Minister, let alone the Government of his intentions. In fact, on a number of well-documented occasions he intentionally deceived members of the then government. 
This 40 per cent of the people, including some of Australia 's leading constitutional lawyers and historians, saw through the plotting that was taking place between Kerr, Barwick and Fraser: They realised what was happening. I also believe that a large proportion of the Australian people who voted to oust the Labor Government at that time had some misgivings about the way in which the election was engineered. But what happened? By 1977 the scars had almost healed. Many had forgotten what had happened. But in late 1977 John Kerr granted the Government an election in mid term. It seemed that Kerr was determined to give the other side an election whether it wanted one or not, whether it was in government or in opposition. 
Shortly afterwards we found out why John Kerr was always so good to the protectors of the establishment. In full public eye, he accepted the big payoff, more than $70,000 a year plus benefits and the hardships of the post in Paris, a large income by any standards, but surely a cheap reward for dividing his nation, undermining the very fibre of Australian constitutional democracy and degrading the position of Head of State of the Australian Commonwealth. Who would have believed that so cynical a deal, and so dishonest a deal, could have been set up- a job in exchange for sacking an elected government, for calling an unjustifiable early election and then retiring in time for the electorate to forget about the shame of 1 1 November. 
Now we find a situation where every newspaper editorial in the country attacks the cynicism of those manoeuvres. The electorate is beginning to wake up, and the 40 per cent to whom I referred in regard to the events of 1975 has increased to an overwhelming majority. The attacks from this side of the chamber have been justified. I believe it has now been proven that it has not been a wrong issue for us at all. 

 -No, Senator, but I do believe it is something that ought to be put into the records of this Senate. 
I think we ought to look to the future, to what we should be doing about a situation such as I have been describing. We should be looking at means of updating and improving our constitution. It is simply not good enough to appoint a new Governor-General every time the old one becomes an embarrassment. We need to establish a commission to review the functions and nature of the Constitution, which was framed before many of the developments of the 20th century- such as industrialisation, the need for increased Government participation in the economy, guaranteed employment, the rights of trade unionists, basic human rights, civil liberties and the role of political parties within the governmental systembecame as important as they are today. 

 Senator Baume gave us a lecture about how we on this side of the chamber had to pull up our socks and try harder. It reminded me of a football coach telling everybody at half time to play the game a little harder. He said: 
One of the challenges facing the Thirty-first Parliament is to ensure that the Opposition in both chambers begins at last to function as an effective, active, involved Opposition, doing its job properly. 
He went on to say: 
In this chamber. . . . we - 
That is the Government- 
. look to a better performance. 
It is easy to say that but after the events of 1 975 and 1 977 we on this side could hardly be blamed for thinking that whatever is said here is irrelevant. As  Senator Button  said earlier that day, the biggest threat to Parliament in this country is the growing cynicism towards the institution itself. 
As one who lost in the last election and who has examined that defeat I shall make a few brief and general comments. I admit that the issue of tax cuts and the whole grey area concerning the benefits to be gained certainly damaged the Labor Party very badly. During that campaign we also saw some of the most scandalous political advertising ever with regard to the economy generally. There were a number of such advertisements. I refer to only two of them. There was the advertisement with the balloons. There was a large balloon with 19 per cent written on it. Underneath were the words ' Under Labor Inflation'. There was a smaller balloon with 9 per cent written on it, supposedly representing the Liberals' performance on inflation control. The figures used represented the highest quarterly inflation rate under the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 and the lowest quarterly figure under the Liberal Government from 1975 to 1977. The figure of 19 per cent for Labor represented a doubling of the figure for the September and December quarters in 1974- a six-month period. The figure of 9 per cent supposedly representing the Liberal Government's performance was arrived at by adding together the three quarters from January to December 1 977 and then multiplying it oneandahalf times. 
Another advertisement showed a woman with two children and a spiel that indicated that with the Liberals' child endowment increases she would be much better off. The advertisement did not mention that the Government had taken away the tax concessions for dependent children. In fact, the average woman with two dependent children would be considerably worse off financially because of the removal of the tax concessions. Because child endowment is not indexed she would become progressively worse off. They are two examples of what I said was the most scandalous political advertising I can remember. On a number of occasions during the campaign elderly people came to me in response to some of this advertising and said:  'Senator, if  the Labor Party gets in why would it take our tax cuts from us and give them to the large multinational companies?' If that situation was not so tragic it would be funny. 
A lot of critics have forecast the end of the Labor Party and a whole new era in Australian politics as a result of the 1977 election. One issue that seems to have been ignored by a great majority of them is the similarity between the elections of 1974 and 1977. As I went around New South Wales I was consistently told- I certainly did not agree with it- that this Government had not been in power terribly long and it deserved another chance. That was very similar to the sorts of things that were being said in 1974. 1 believe that was a crucial element in the election campaign and, as I said, one the critics seem to be ignoring. 
In regard to the role of the media and communications, especially that which influences the relationships between the electorate and members of Parliament, I would like to suggest certain possible improvements. As all honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber do, I believe in the importance of a completely free Press for the improvement of Australia and the preservation of a democratic society. The question we have to ask ourselves is: Just how free is the Press in Australia at the moment?' Those of us who believe in a fair and equitable dissemination of information throughout the community must question a system which allows a handful of wealthy individuals to dictate the editorial line and in some cases to direct journalists to report events and statements in a deliberately biased fashion. 
This makes  Mr Packer, Mr Fairfax  and  Mr Murdoch  three of the most powerful men in Australia. They are not elected. In all three cases they hold their power not only by virtue of talent in their particular field but also because of inheritance. They obviously have interests in common with the most wealthy and powerful sections of the community and little sympathy for anybody or anything except their own bank accounts. They are very much in the mould of the big monopolies, squeezing or buying out competitors and building empires. One must carefully scrutinise the term often used to describe them as Press barons. We must seriously ask: What is the place of a feudalistic method of imposing the will of the few on the many who work for them and also the countless others who are forced to read their Press in Australia because there is no other available source of information? 
Any honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber would have to admit that the Press was exceptionally biased both in editorial policy and in the selection of material to be reported. Any responsible government, not just a Labor government but any true Liberal government, would not approve of what has become a very disturbing element in Australian society. Many of our industries are monopolies or near monopolies because of the relatively small market in Australia. There are ways by which an Australian government could encourage improvements in the field of the media. For example, it would be possible by offering various taxation and other incentives to corporations involved in the media to encourage the establishment within the structure of each newspaper of an editorial board of the professional journalists working for the newspaper elected by the reporting staff of that paper. There is also the possibility of establishing a commission with a similar degree of autonomy to the Australian Broadcasting Commission with terms of reference directed towards the publication of a newspaper. It could also be involved in the publication of Australian literature and other articles which commercial media enterprises are either unable or unwilling to publish at present. 
I raise briefly another matter which was brought to my attention more strongly than ever during the Federal election campaign and immediately afterwards. That is the electoral system. Although I was defeated I was the second last candidate eliminated. An analysis of the total Australian Labor Party vote for the Senate against the ALP vote for the House of Representatives in New South Wales shows that the ALP proportion of the vote in percentage terms was a full 2 per cent smaller for the Senate than for the House of Representatives. A large percentage of people, without a doubt, wanted to cast a formal Senate vote but were thwarted by the outdated and complicated Senate system under which we are presently operating. I have talked to people who scrutineered during the election campaign. In NSW the percentage of informal votes was down to 9 per cent. That is a lot lower than it was in 1975 and 1974. But the scrutineers told me that practically all of the 9 per cent of people tried to cast a deliberate formal vote. There was not a very large protest vote by people not even trying to vote. 
During the campaign and afterwards I personally heard of several occasions of blatant discrimination against the less educated and poorer sections of the community. For example, Aborigines were intimidated by employees of the Commonwealth Electoral Office or Electoral Office staff allowed people to be intimidated. I shall make a point about this. I am referring to casual employees, those people who were put on just for the election. I am not talking about the full time officials whom I have always found to do a very good job in very tiring circumstances, operating under an Act which is years out of date. Because the Act is complicated and because these people are casual employees they become just as confused as the people who are trying to vote. Whilst it could be said that this has hurt many members of the migrant community who might be voting for the Australian Labor Party, if one examines the figures one will see that it should also worry the National Country Party. In a number of rural electorates the percentage of the informal vote was much higher than the State average in New South Wales. 
I have said in this place on a number of occasions that the present electoral system is badly in need of reform. I have suggested certain possible remedies, including the introduction of optional preferential voting, and various measures to get rid of the joke and nuisance candidates who persist in standing for the Senate and further complicating not only the system of balloting but also delaying the finalising of the count and complicating counting procedures. I believe that in 1974 at least some people stood for the Senate purely as a tax dodge. The result of the last Senate election in New South Wales, even without a recount, was not known for at least a month following the ballot date. The other day I was very pleased to hear  Senator Withers  say that in the life of this Parliament a complete review of the Electoral Act would be undertaken. Because of that fact I will not go into any further detail but it is something which I think should concern all honourable senators. 
The last area of electoral reform on which I should like to touch is the matter of public funding and the accountability of political parties as to the origins of their funds. It became obvious to me both as a senator and previously, when like  Senator Mulvihill  I was Assistant Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Labor Party, that the Liberal Party and the Country Party had financial resources which far outstripped the resources of parties such as the Labor Party and the Australian Democrats. They have more than we could ever hope to have. If one takes the last election, one can see that the cost of running election campaigns in this country today has become crippling for all parties. I recently read a statement by the Liberal Party in New South Wales. It appeared in that Party's own journal and I believe most of the contents of the article. The article set out the Party's financial situation and although it was certainly better than that of the New South Wales Branch of the Labor Party it was not a particularly good financial situation. 
The Labor Party operates on a shoestring budget. We have considerably fewer full time officials and nowhere near the amount of money to spend on research, advertising and other campaign expenses that the Government parties have. The political system itself falls into disrepute when citizens can see the enormous amounts of money used by parties but are unable to find the origin of these moneys. I believe that in the future it should be necessary for all political parties and candidates to submit a balance sheet of income and expenditure in the same way as public companies are obligated to publish annual reports. However, because both- 
Because both major political parties in this country are unable to be certain of the source of their funds- they would no doubt be embarrassed to some extent by the exposure of the source of their funds. I believe that this would apply more to the conservative parties than to my own party. I think it is important that the Australian Government begins to undertake research into a fairer system of public funding for political parties and for candidates. Accordingly I placed on notice a motion in the last Parliament that a parliamentary committee be established to review the possibilities of setting up such a system in Australia. I propose to speak further to this matter in the Parliament in the future. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the disastrous rail accident which occurred in Youngstown, Florida, yesterday when a tanker containing 91,000 litres of chlorine was involved in a derailment resulting in the deaths of at least eight people? What safeguards exist, especially on interstate lines, to ensure that such an accident could not occur in Australia? Further, in the event of such an accident, what emergency procedures exist to minimise the dangers involved? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services and refers to an article published in today's Melbourne  Age  which states that the Government faces a $440,000 bill to reopen Australian consular posts in Bombay and Los Angeles and that the Government has already lost $100,000 in dead rent in Los Angeles. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any other diplomatic posts were closed down during the past two years on which the Government is paying dead rent? Further, in the light of these policy changes, can the Minister explain why the posts in Bombay and Los Angeles were closed initially and why it has been found necessary to reopen them? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the Government is contemplating action which will eliminate the autonomy of the Trade Union Training Authority? Further, is it true that the Government intends to alter the relevant legislation so that the Director of the Trade Union Training Authority will become a nominee of the Government instead of being elected by the Council of the Trade Union Training Authority? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to a question I asked on Tuesday relating to the Trade Union Training Authority. Is it true that a document was prepared for the National Labour Consultative Council by senior officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, under the Minister's direction, discussing means of reducing the autonomy of the Trade Union Training Authority? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) How much compensation, other than a trust fund for the children, will the families of the three men- two employees of the Sydney City Council who were members of the Municipal Employees' Union, and a member of the New South Wales Police Force- killed in the Hilton Hotel bombing incident receive. 
On what basis will the payment be determined. 
Will the Minister explain the apparent contradiction whereby shopkeepers who lost trade as a direct result of the security arrangements for the Conference will be paid full indemnity while three families who lost providers will not be compensated for the loss of future income nor for the emotional stress caused by the violent deaths of the men concerned. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development confirm whether two documents which were partially reproduced and extensively quoted in yesterday's edition of the  Australian  and are purportedly drafts of proposed amendments to the Atomic Energy Act 1953 are authentic? Further, is it true that the draft contains no technical definition of safety standards or procedures and gives the Minister extensive reserve powers over individual and collective civil rights? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw the attention of the Minister to an article in the Melbourne  Age  which stated that Australia had abstained from a United Nations Human Rights Commission vote which declared that Israel was guilty of war crimes and supported Palestine Liberation Organisation military action to gain its objectives, while the United States, Canada and Britain voted against the resolution. If the report is true, will the Minister state whether or not this is Government policy for future United Nations votes on these issues? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Given the fact that many of the people who have had their unemployment benefits stopped are actually entitled to them, has the Minister's Department taken on any more staff to reprocess the claims of those innocent people? If not, what steps have been taken by the Department to reduce the hardship associated with long delays in the payment of benefits? Further, can the Minister guarantee that no hardship will be caused because some people entitled to benefits will not reapply after having their payments cancelled? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health inform the Senate whether or not private health funds are using statistical information provided by Medibank? If so, on what basis does Medibank charge the private health funds for those services? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to the question asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerning the formation of a group of Vietnamese refugees whose explicit intention is the overthrow of the Vietnamese Government. Is the Minister concerned that the setting up of such a group in Australia could severely hamper our diplomatic and trade relations with the present Government of Vietnam? Further, what would be the attitude of his Government if the group in question operated a radio broadcasting unit in order to maintain contacts with groups inside Vietnam? 
My question is also addressed to the Minister for Social Security. When will the Minister announce new appointments to the Social Security Appeals Tribunals which are below operating strength? On what grounds did the Minister refuse to reinstate  Mr John  Waters, who resigned from a tribunal to contest the Northern Territory seat as a Labor candidate, having been assured that normal Public Service procedure would be followed if he did not win the seat and that he would be reappointed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Given the present community concern about revenue collection, does the Minister believe that the Commonwealth revenue collection apparatus is sufficient in terms of research facilities and trained personnel to keep up with the growing number of legal and accounting practices which specialise in designing tax avoidance schemes for the wealthier sections of the community to the disadvantage of the majority of taxpayers? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, concerns the purchase of Boeing 727 aircraft for No. 34 Squadron. Is it correct that the Minister for Defence stated last Thursday that the aircraft proposed to be purchased for No. 34 Squadron would have spare parts and service supplied by the domestic commercial carriers? Is it also correct that the Royal Australian Air Force requires that any aircraft owned and operated by it must use spare parts held by the RAAF and that servicing must be carried out by Service personnel? Which is the correct position? What is the estimated cost of each aircraft if the RAAF is to undertake the complete provision of spare parts and service? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I draw his attention to the Prime Minister's rejection of the request by the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation for assistance for the Chrysler Australia Ltd plant in South Australia. Will the Minister explain the Government's attitude to the viability of the motor vehicle industry in the light of the rejection of this call for assistance? Will he explain the reasons for the rejection of the union 's quite reasonable demands? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction concerns the construction of the new High Court building. Is it a fact that difficulties that have arisen with the installation of the windows in the building have resulted in the window managers being sacked and the architect being given an additional $500,000 to have the windows redesigned? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. The Minister will recall that yesterday I asked him a question concerning the windows in the new High Court building. I now ask whether the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, has insisted on security and noise standards in sections of the glass work in the building that cannot be met by materials produced in Australia and will require materials to be imported from South Africa. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Minister responsible to the Government and to the Parliament for the Commonwealth Electoral Act and also royal commissions appointed by the Government, can he advise the Senate who drew up the terms of reference for the McGregor judicial inquiry? Does the- Minister seriously interpret the terms of reference, as suggested last Friday, as requiring the royal commission to decide why the name of the seat of Gold Coast was changed? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. Has his attention been drawn to remarks made last week by his colleague the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  at the Australian Chamber of Commerce conference in which  Mr Macphee  said that it would be beneficial if the Federal Government had a four-year rather than a three-year term? Does the Minister agree with this suggestion? If so, does the Government intend to take any steps to bring it to fruition? 
As a member of Senate Estimates Committee A I support the motion moved by  Senator Sim  and seconded by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. It was disturbing for me as a member of Senate Estimates Committee A to see what seemed to be two cases of blatant misuse of funds approved by the Parliament under the Advance to the Minister for Finance. To anybody who believes sincerely in the concept of parliamentary responsibility for expenditure this is a serious matter. A situation where a department can spend money without the knowledge of Parliament as has the Department of Foreign Affairs in a number of areas and without an advance from the Department of Finance means the credibility of the Minister responsible must be seriously questioned. 
I do not want to say any more about that at this stage, but I want to refer to one matter that took place in Senate Estimates Committee A. The Minister responsible for a department under investigation,  Senator Withers,  is always tough and always presses the public servants for an answer. I am sure that all members of Senate Estimates Committee A are happy with the answers that they get.  Senator Sim,  as  Chairman  of the Committee, certainly always gets respect from the Minister and members of the Committee. But  Senator Webster  came in and took control of Senate Estimates Committee A and a clash occurred then with the  Chairman, Senator Sim.  I believe that  Senator Webster  placed the public servants in an invidious situation. He certainly placed all the senators on Estimates Committee A in an invidious situation. I think that  Senator Webster's  performance deserves the condemnation of honourable senators. 
-I support the remarks about the  Hansard  staff that were made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and also  Senator Knight.  In supporting their remarks I should also like to point out that the parliamentary officers of the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Library and other departments of course are in exactly the same position as far as overtime is concerned as was spoken of here tonight with regard to the  Hansard  reporters. When one looks at the estimates considered by Senate Estimates Committee A one sees many examples of frivolous spending on items essential for no other purpose than the grandstanding of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I refer particularly to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting that was held in Sydney at the Hilton Hotel. Members of the Australian Labor Party and I believe that Australia has a very important role to play in our region. However, I am not convinced that the tremendous expenditure on CHOGRM was altogether justified. I think it would have been perhaps more fruitful, since a Commonwealth 
Heads of Government meeting had recently been held in London, if the Prime Minister had sponsored a regional Heads of Government meeting not specifically and not exclusively for Commonwealth members. 
It has been said that one reason that the Prime Minister convened this conference was no doubt to camouflage an otherwise shoddy performance in foreign relations which has been credited to him. Unfortunately I think that the cynical conclusions that many journalists and commentators came to have some basis. Many of them thought that this was an exercise attempting to give a touch of grandeur to the Prime Minister. Certainly one is tempted to share in that conclusion when one sees the detailed breakdown of the way that the money was thrown around at the CHOGRM conference. I personally think that an equally productive series of meetings could have taken place in more orthodox surroundings in Canberra where not only would a lot more public money have been saved but also better security could have been provided. 
The total administrative cost of the conference was $772,000. During the course of the Committee's deliberations it was determined that this very high figure did not represent anywhere near the entire cost. That figure does not include the wages of Commonwealth or State police engaged in security operations nor does it represent the total cost of the mobilisation of the armed forces after the bombing tragedy. I think that if there were some way in which this could be worked out we would be looking at a figure well in excess of $ 1 m for running the CHOGRM conference. 
I refer to one outrageous item of expenditure. I refer to the cost of the retreat at Bowral and to the transportation of the heads of government and support staff and secretariat members between Canberra, Bowral and Sydney. The total amount paid to the proprietor of the Berida Manor was $42,000 for 2 days accommodation for the heads of government and their support staff. I asked a question on this matter in the Estimates Committee. I thought that a large number of people would have been at the Manor for some time. I could not work out myself how the bill could possibly be $42,000. I would like to give some details of the breakdown of the costs that I was given during the hearing. I still find the figure very hard to believe. I hope that the answer I was given is in fact wrong.  Senator McLaren  and myself both asked a question concerning the number of persons covered in the $42,000 cost at Berida Manor, Bowral. We were told that 12 heads of government, 7 accompanied by their wives, the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Secretariat and 8 staff were resident in Berida Manor. That is a total of 28 people. Although the CHOGRM members stayed at the Manor for only 2 days the cost covers a period of one week. That is reasonable. I can understand why, for security reasons, it was closed before and after the stay of the heads of government. What this means is that 28 people stayed at the Manor for a week at a cost of $42,000. 1 have heard that it is a place where one goes to relax and to reduce weight. But at those prices a person would certainly be reducing his wallet if he stayed there for long. 
-That is right. At this time I think it is worth raising and placing on the record of the Senate the belief that I have about the way in which the Government handled the situation after the Hilton bombing. At the time it happened I think one could draw only one of two conclusions. The bombing could have been perpetrated by an organised urban terrorist group such as the Baadar-Meinhof gang, the Palestine Liberation Organisation, the Red Brigade, the Japanese Red Army or any of those other extreme groups. If a group like this had been behind the bombing it would have been pleased with the Government's reaction. Part of the views and philosophies of groups like this is that they must provoke extreme reactions from the state. That is one of their objectives. Therefore, the Australian Government's reaction by bringing in the Army would have been exactly what the terrorists wished. I do not personally think that any of the groups I have mentioned were involved at all. But otherwise, if one looks at it, the bombing was perpetrated by some disturbed person or some persons acting on some specific grudge against one of the heads of government. In that case the Commonwealth or State police would probably be better equipped to handle the situation than the armed forces. All in all I believe the conference was much more expensive than it needed to be. As I have said, it could have been held in Canberra without the two-day excursion to Berida Manor. It could have maintained the informality which the Prime Minister wished to have as a characteristic of the talks. 
The other thing that concerns me about the CHOGRM conference, considering the very generous compensation payments that were made to businesses affected by the Hilton bombing incident, was the fact that no ex-gratia payments were made to the families of the bomb victims. On 22 February this year I asked a question in the following terms: 
1 ) How much compensation, other than a trust fund for the children, will the families of the three men- two employees of the Sydney City Council who were members of the Municipal Employees ' Union, and a member of the New South Wales police force- killed in the Hilton Hotel bombing incident receive? 
On what basis will the payment be determined? 
Will the Minister explain the apparent contradiction whereby shopkeepers who lost trade as a direct result of the security arrangements for the Conference will be paid full indemnity while three families who lost providers will not be compensated for the loss of future income nor for the emotional stress caused by the violent deaths of the men concerned? 
I do not want to go through the full answer I received. I will summarise it. I was told that State workers compensation legislation applies to the families involved and that the Government was setting up a trust" fund for the education of the children. I certainly approve of that; it was the least that could be done. The reply stated that no contradiction was involved in the payment of compensation to the shopkeepers. I say that a real contradiction was involved. When I asked a question in Estimates Committee A about the details of the ex-gratia payments I was told that details of ex-gratia payments by the Commonwealth were not normally made public. I was told that in this instance disclosure of the amounts paid to each business could be of concern to the business involved because the profitability of them could be revealed. The reply stated that so far 49 claims had been received from businesses entitled to compensation and that amounts totalling $156,842.78 had been paid to 43 claimants and that the remaining 6 claims were being assessed. A small number of claims are still to be submitted. I am not opposed, of course, to these businesses receiving compensation. I think that they should be con.pensated. The working out of the compensation is probably an accurate and proper record. 
The fact is that besides the education of the children concerned, the widows of the men who were blown up in that Hilton bombing have received no ex-gratia payment. When one sees that the Commonwealth is paying out well over $ 1 50,000 one sees that there is a good case for a $20,000, $30,000-honourable senators can think of a figure- ex-gratia payment being made. Of course these people have not been ignored. The Municipal Employees Union in New South Wales- the union of which I am still a memberhas done a magnificent job. So far it has collected $90,500 which will be given to the widows of the Municipal Employees Union members who were blown up in that bombing. The organisers throughout the State are still going around seeking funds. They believe that they will receive well in excess of $100,000. 1 put the point of view to the Committee that perhaps that amount of money should have been made as an ex-gratia payment in the same way as money was given to the shopkeepers who were disadvantaged because of the explosion. 
I want to raise another issue. It relates to a major area in which the Government's erratic decision-making has cost the public a considerable amount of money. I refer to the decision to close down diplomatic missions in Chicago, Bombay and Los Angeles. In a mad rush to curtail Government expenditure the Prime Minister ordered the closing of these missions. By the end of the year it had become obvious that these posts were important to the conduct of Australia's business overseas. In other words, the decision was ill-considered and poorly planned in the first place. The missions were subsequently reopened and as a result not only was Australia unrepresented in these important centres for more than a year but also was there false economy in the sense that no money at all was saved because the Australian Government was paying rent on unoccupied facilities, in the case of Chicago where the premises were leased, or, in the case of Los Angeles, where the premises had been purchased and were then sold but will now have to be repurchased or, alternatively, purchasing or leasing arrangements of some sort will have to be made. 
I wish to give some details of what I consider to be quite a scandalous situation with respect to the Los Angeles post. I shall give the Senate a fairly brief history of this post. It was opened as a trade post in 1 964. It became a consulate-general in 1970. Some residential property was bought and, following closure of the post in 1976, was sold. The Consulate-General 's residence, bought in 1973 for $183,551, was sold in 1976 for $276,086. The special trade commissioner's residence, bought in 1974 for $151,515, also was sold in 1976 for $211,124. The Consul's residence, bought in 1974 for $74,000, was sold in 1976 for $109,622. Of course, some people would say that is a very fine return for the amount of money that the Commonwealth put into those residences. Now with the decision to reopen the posts those residences will have to be re-purchased. 
I was in California in February this year and I made some inquiries about property from people who are involved in the business. They told me that that same sort of appreciation of which the sale of these residences is an example has occurred between 1976 and 1978. When we reopen the post we will have to pay an extra $50,000, $60,000 or $70,000 on top of the figures for which we sold these buildings in 1976. All the other residential accommodation in Los Angeles was leased under private lease agreements by individual officers. The post was closed in June 1 976. The decision to reopen it was announced in February 1978. Office accommodation at 3600 Wilshire Boulevard was leased from July 1971 for a period of 10 years at a rental of $US6 1,707 per annum subject to escalation. Following the closure of the post in June 1976, efforts were made to sub-lease the whole of the former office accommodation for the remainder of the lease period, that is, to July 1981. Approximately one half of the space has been sub-leased and the revenue so derived to date amounts to $A4 1,000. The total amount paid out in rent on the office space from the time the post was closed is approximately $125,000 to date. The net outgoings are therefore $84,000, that is, $125,000 less revenue of $41,000. This is a classic example of a government making a decision that was supposed to cut costs but which in fact has cost us not only that $84,000 in lost rent but the hundreds of thousands of dollars that will be involved in re-purchasing the property. 
I just close with this note concerning those offices. Efforts to sub-lease the remainder of the space were unsuccessful up to the time that the planned reopening of the post was announced. The existing unoccupied office space will be utilised when the post reopens. This is perhaps a classic example of a government that tried to cut costs by closing diplomatic posts that should never have been closed in the first place. It was not in Australia's interest to close them and they are now being reopened at a great expense to the taxpayers of Australia. 
I want to raise a couple of matters. I ran out of time before. One is the office facilities that are provided for members of the House of Representatives. I refer specifically to those honourable members whose electorates were affected by the redistribution. John Brown, the honourable member for Parramatta, is one of the people concerned. The difficulty he has to put up with at the moment is that he has an electorate office nearly 20 miles from the nearest boundary of his electorate. This has been the situation since the last election campaign. It is a disgrace. It deprives his electorate of a fundamental facility in a democracy, that is, easy access to parliamentary representatives. 
I heard somebody laughing but the situation, of course, is that the honourable member for Dundas, who was previously the honourable member for Parramatta, is still occupying the office in the electorate of Parramatta. I realise that there are some difficulties in obtaining an office in Dundas. The Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  has said that  Mr Brown  can take an office somewhere else in Parramatta. The thing that concerns and worries me is the fact that people in the Parramatta electorate are going to the office of the honourable member for Dundas still thinking that he is the honourable member for Parramatta. I do not know whether he still tries to look after those people, but, as far as the parliamentary Labor Party is concerned, it thinks that it is a quite disgraceful situation. 
While I am on the subject of facilities for MHRs, I say that there are some members who are certainly disadvantaged by the areas in which they live. It might be said that a lot of these people are National Country Party members. I am certainly not opposed to those members getting the sort of facility that I have in mind. I refer particularly to two electorates in New South Wales. One is Gwydir, which is split in half by a mountain range. The other is Riverina, which includes towns like Griffith and Leeton as well as Broken Hill, which is hundreds of miles away and for which a case could be put for having perhaps two or even three electorate offices and certainly for having extra electoral assistance. 
I wish now to make a few remarks on a subject which has just been raised by  Senator McLaren,  that is, the funding of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It is all right to say that nothing has been done about this matter since 1949; that, in fact, Labor governments have been the same as Liberal governments and said that there should not be any scrutiny of it; and that nobody will answer any questions anyway. I do not think that in the long term this situation is to the benefit of this country. I think that the financial responsibility of the nation's security organisation is to this Parliament. ASIO receives a fairly large share of the Austraiian Government's budget, yet for a long time it has virtually been able to spend freely, seemingly responsible to nobody in the Parliament, and no scrutiny of any sort has been allowed by the Parliament as a whole. I remember talking to a member of the United States Congress, Representative Otis Pike, who was a member of a committee that investigated the Central Intelligence Agency in America. I do not think anybody would accuse Representative Pike of being anti-American. He gave to me what I think was a very good piece of advice. He said: 'When you have a bureaucracy like the Central Intelligence Agency, which is responsible to nobody you have a bureaucracy which builds up because it is not responsible to anybody and in a few years you have a monster that is very hard to control'. The same situation may occur with respect to ASIO. A particular section could be set up to deal with a particular thing, such as the Hilton Hotel bombing, and it is not closed down. So it goes on and on. I certainly would not want to be a member of any committee that was scrutinising ASIO. I talked with some members of the United States Congress who had, in fact, been serving on these sorts of committees. They told me about some of the tremendous tensions under which they were placed because of the particular job they had to handle. 
The proposition I am putting forward is that if there is no parliamentary scrutiny the loser will be the intelligence community. If this situation goes on and on and there turns out to be some sort of scandal within ASIO concerning the Government, there will be a situation similar to the situation that has occurred in the United States with the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Because of the scandals, there is a sense of belief within the American community that these organisations cannot justify their existence. As I have said, I think this really hurts the intelligence community. Before we have this sort of thing occurring in Australia we ought to be looking to some sort of parliamentary scrutiny. I am not saying what sort of scrutiny it should be. That is for other people to put forward. But I certainly think, in view of the amount of money that is spent and in view of the facts that have been brought out during this debate by  Senator McLaren,  that this is something that we ought to be looking at very seriously. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the decision by the High Court in the challenge by AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd against the Australian Department of Transport, would he not now agree that the decision is a setback for all Australians seeking cheap air travel? 
Last evening I made some comments about the cost of running the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. In reply the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said: 

 Senator Sibraa referred to expenditure on the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. He put his own point of view in that regard, but I wonder whether he is informed as to the need for regional conferences and the exchange of views between members of Commonwealth nations. He expressed his point of view on the way in which he would conduct a conference, but to hold a conference of the standard and with the services and other usual appointments is something else again. He spoke of what he thought was excessive expenditure on the retreat of the conference. Yet anyone who attends a conference usually regards that informal period where many views can be discussed closely as being an important part of the conference. 
I want to put it on record that I support the concept of the CHOGRM conference. Certainly I think that it should have been differently structured and with some different countries taking part. I appreciate also that the retreat was probably useful but I reiterate that I find the costs unbelievable. We have been told that Berida Manor was hired for a week for security reasons but that only 28 people went there. Yet the final cost was $42,000. That works out at $1,500 per week for the people who went to this retreat. I say again what I said last night: I think that the figures must be wrong somewhere. I do not know how that amount of money could be spent. Last night I mentioned that the total cost of the conference was $772,000 but that that amount does not include the cost of the Army. I said that I did not know how we could obtain a total cost for the conference but I have received some more information. 
I think it might have been full board, senator. The CHOGRM conference cost $772,000 without the servicemen. I said last night that the total cost of the con ference would probably be something over $ lm. In fact, I think I underestimated because I have received additional information. I asked: 
How many servicemen were involved in assisting in the security arrangements after the Hilton bombing incident at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting? 
The answer which has been provided is: 
The number of servicemen involved was as follows: 
Army personnel deployed in the field- 1 ,085; 
Total Army personnel involved (including a. above)-I,849. 
RAAF personnel providing helicopter support- 58. 
This is an incredible situation. I believe that the cost would have been much less if the conference had been held in Canberra. 
This brings me to the other point made by  Senator Guilfoyle  last night. It concerns the issue I raised about the possibility of ex gratia payments to the widows of those who were killed in the Hilton Hotel bombing incident. The Minister said that she would draw this to the attention of the Minister. I am please about that. I think that if one looks at the costs I have mentioned this afternoon and the people involved, it will be seen that ex gratia payments to the widows certainly would be in order. It has been pointed out that a trust fund has been set up for the education of the children. I certainly support that. I mentioned last night that the Municipal Employees Union had raised $100,000 for the widows of the men who were bombed. I think it is a matter of principle that, if ex gratia payments are to be made to shopkeepers who were inconvenienced as a result of the bombing, such payments certainly should be made to the widows of the men killed. Briefly, I also support the remarks made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland about the research staff provided for Senate Estimates Committee A. They were asked to do a tremendous amount of work and the service they provided was excellent on all occasions. It is something that ought to continue in the future. 
Did the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations see the article by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  in the  Australian  recently in which he gave his reasons for calling on the Federal Government to remove legislative  obstacles  to the amalgamation of unions? What is the Government's position on  Mr Hawke  's call for amendments to section 158n of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of a report which appeared in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  and which stated that the Prime Minister, in a meeting with United States businessmen in New York, said that Australia had a better record of industrial relations than do the countries of North America? Does the Minister agree with this statement? If so, why is the Government pursuing a campaign of open harassment against the Australian trade union movement? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon: 
All aspects of existing electoral laws affecting the Australian Parliament; 
B ) Changes that should be made to existing legislation; 
The provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political panics and candidates in federal election campaigns and the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance by corporations and individuals to these parties and candidates; and 
The possibility of establishing fixed election dates subject to a government retaining the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the committee be contained in a subsequent resolution. 
I would hate to see this Parliament in a situation similar to that which I encountered while in the Federal Republic of Germany. To gain admission to the Parliament to see a Minister, I had to put a passport in a metal tray which was then taken away behind a bomb-proof glass window. Then I was admitted into another room where there was some more bomb-proof glass and the Minister had to come out and get my passport, look at it and then sign a paper to verify the fact that I was coming into the Parliament. Such action might have been necessary in West Germany because of groups like BaaderMeinhof, but I do not think it is necessary in Australia at this time. 
I support the remarks made by  Senator McLaren  about the gold pass. If there were to be any problem with any of us getting into any of the entrances of this Parliament, surely, by the showing of the gold pass, this problem would be resolved. Badges were also mentioned. During the general election campaigns in 1974 and 1975, I was working at the meetings with the then Prime Minister of Australia. It was necessary for the special branch to be able to identify those people who had access to the microphones on the stage, and I was one of those people. We were using a badge system that could be identified by the special branch. I will not go into the details, but I would say that 99 per cent of the population could not tell the identification that we were wearing. I think the present badges being used are a farce. As  Senator Georges  has said, probably thousands of them have been issued. I think one could manufacture such a badge in about five minutes by buying the necessary equipment across the counter at Coles. I think the present badges are useless. I think the whole matter is still quite serious. It is something that ought to be re-examined. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to two statements made by  Mr Michael  Somare, the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. The first statement was made in the Papua New Guinea Parliament by  Mr Somare  on 8 August. He said:   . . the time will come when we may in this country have to say we need a kind of treaty so that in the event of invasion we could call upon other nations for aid. 
The second statement was made by  Mr Somare  the next day, 9 August, also in the Papua New Guinea Parliament. In reply to a question from  Mr John  Noel, who asked whether or not Papua New Guinea should seek to enter into a defence treaty relationship with Australia before it is too late,  Mr Somare  said that he would rather not have Papua New Guinea enter into a treaty relationship with Australia, given the special understanding between the two nations. What would be the present Government's attitude if the Government of Papua New Guinea approached Australia with the request for a formal defence pact? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Australian Government had any communication with  Mr Somare  in the period between the making of the two statements? 
Firstly I take this opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr President,  for being re-elected as  President  of the Senate. I should have done so last night, but as it was three minutes to 1 1 when I rose and as I had certain things to say I thought I had better get them over with. I think that you have done a very fair job in the past, and I am sure that you will continue to do so in the future. 
This Bill is welcome. I feel that it should be stronger. I understand that a Liberal back bench committee has cut it back several times. In fact, a spokesman for one of the back bench committees appeared on television and boasted that the legislation had been sent back to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  four times by the committee. The Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated in the House of Representatives that the Bill, whilst having direct application to the existence of the so-called Croatian Embassy, applied generally; but I do not think it applies generally enough. It applies to persons promoting an operation; that is, displaying public signs or information. It does not, however, apply to the doing of acts that should be done only by an embassy or a consulate. The 'Croatian Embassy' is an entity claiming to be an embassy, but seemingly unable to do the things an embassy or consulate might do. It does not represent anything other than past history. 
The Bill might therefore cover that particular situation, except that all it will have the so-called embassy do is to take down its name plate and keep up its operations indoors. The Government has found it necessary on several occasions to warn Australian citizens and Yugoslav citizens resident in Australia not to seek consular assistance from the 'Croation Embassy'. That being the case, why has it not put in the Bill provisions covering doing such things, not just promoting them? I was quite surprised to learn that on Saturday, 8 April,  Senator Knight  told the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Liberal Party that there was no reason why the 'Croatian Embassy' should not continue as a cultural or information centre. I certainly hope that that statement was made because of the inadequacy of the Bill. If that is not the case, I urge  Senator Knight  to consider whether something which symbolises the past history of the state of Croatia represents the best place of culture or information for the Croatian people who are now in this country. 
I would like read into the  Hansard  report some historical facts about the state of Croatia. I think these facts have a direct bearing on the establishment of the 'Croatian Embassy'. The so-called Croatian Embassy does not represent the whole of the Croatian population in this country or elsewhere. It does not reflect the broad interest of the Croatian people. It has never done so. Far from it. Its roots are in the extreme right wing Ustasha movement. Yugoslavia has a population of over 22 million. It is a federation of six states. One of these states or republics is the Republic of Croatia. I suppose one of the Croats with the most distinction in Yugoslavia today is President Tito, the leader of that country. Croats in Yugoslavia, enjoy absolute equality with other nationals, as citizens of a recognised republic in federal bodies. Yugoslavia was established after the First World War. 
The Ustasha movement acquired a reputation for right wing terrorism and violence in the late 1920s. As a result of various acts of terrorism, in particular the assassination in Marseilles of King Alexander of Yugoslavia, the Royal Yugoslav Government brought the activities of the Ustasha to the attention of the League of Nations, at a meeting of the Council in December 1934, at which Australia was represented by  Mr S.  M. Bruce, later Lord Bruce. It was brought to the League's attention because the Ustasha movement was being harboured in another country and because the French Foreign Minister was also assassinated in the company of King Alexander. 
Germany and Italy invaded Yugoslavia in April 1941. Immediately after the invasion on 10 April, the independent state of Croatia was proclaimed, with the leader of the Ustasha movement, Ante Pavelic, named as its leader. Pavelic led a nazi satellite state and formally declared war on the allied powers. Croatia was occupied by Italian and German forces. Pavelic 's government collapsed with the collapse of nazism. 

 Mr President, I think it is important that these historical aspects be looked at in this debate. I believe one of the main reasons for the setting up of the so-called embassy is to provide ammunition for propaganda to be used in other parts of the world by people who wish an independent state of Croatia. The tragedy of this that some Croatians, expecially young people, believe this is possible. As  Senator Mulvihill  said earlier, the result of any armed uprising in Croatia would probably be the intervention of the Soviet Union with a resultant blood-bath. It would be to the detriment of the Western world and, of course, to the Yugoslav people. 
The Australian Government is in an impossible situation in this matter. We have established full diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia. The people from Yugoslavia would be one of the largest migrant groups in Australia. Travel between the two countries is increasing. JAT, the Yugoslav airlines, is the only eastern European airline operating into Australia and the Yugoslav people use it extensively to travel freely between the two countries. I think a point ought to be made here about the number of people who travel from Yugoslavia to Australia and back again. Of all the eastern European countries, Yugoslavia is probably the only one that makes passports available to the majority of its population to travel frequently to the West. 
The Croatian people who have come to this country have done many fine things. We want that to be recognised. Their rights to preserve their cultural identity also has to be recognised. The people who have come here from Croatia are welcome. They have made a positive contribution to our country. The people who have been advocates of non-peaceful means- advocates of terrorism, operations against friendly governments and violence against people and premises in Australia and other countries- are not welcome. I do not think we can forget that in the week this embassy was established the Yugoslav airlines office in Sydney was severely damaged by a bomb blast and the Yugoslav ConsulateGeneral in Sydney was the object of a violent demonstration. 
-It would be impossible. I suppose, to say who was responsible for this bomb blast. 
-That is not what I am saying. 

 - Senator Harradine has been answering  Senator Mulvihill.  I have not answered his interjection. I will address the Senate through the Chair and say to  Senator Harradine  that there have been a number of bombing outrages in this country. I do not intend to go through them. There are many people from different extremist organisations on the Right and on the Left who have been responsible for them. 

 - Senator Harradine will have an opportunity to speak in this debate. I wish he would wait until I finish. I have a few words to say about terrorism. As I was saying, Australia cannot be used as a haven for terrorism of any kind. I urge Croatians to be proud of their culture, but to put bitterness behind them and to get on with the business of being Australians. If they want to be obsessed with Yugoslav politics, let them exercise their right to go back to 
Yugoslavia. We in Australia cannot tolerate terrorism from any fringe group of the Left or of the Right. At present there are very encouraging signs of co-operation between the governments of western Europe and of eastern Europe. There have been the arrests of Baader-Meinhof terrorists in Yugoslavia. There have been recent arrests of Baader-Meinhof people in Bulgaria, where there was unique co-operation between the west German police and the Bulgarian police in a joint operation that resulted in these people being detained. I am sure that all members of the Senate would welcome that sort of co-operation. It will be only through this sort of co-operation between governments that the horror of international terrorism will be halted. If no country provided a refuge for these terrorists, some sanity might return to the world. 
In conclusion may 1 simply say that 1 note that on 9 March  President  Carter told  President  Tito, in Washington, that the United States 'continued support of the independence, territorial integrity and unity of Yugoslavia' and also that he indicated that the United States would 'take firm measures to prevent and prosecute criminal terrorist activities'. Knowing how concerned this Government is to identify itself with United States policy, I trust that this Government will be no less firm. I think that the delay in passing this Bill has created great hardship for and embarrassment to our representatives in Yugoslavia. I hope that it will be passed quickly this afternoon, with the amendments to be moved by  Senator Wriedt. 
Clause 5 of the Bill deals with the removals of signs, et cetera. I want to take the opportunity to say that I had misinterpreted the remarks of  Senator Knight  when he said there was no reason why the 'Croatian Embassy' should not continue as a cultural or information centre. I assumed at the time that he was also implying that diplomatic and consular activity would still take place in that building. It is quite obvious after talking to him and listening to him that in fact he did not mean this and I think the situation has been cleared up. By the same token I still think it would be provocative if that building about which we were talking were used in future for any sorts of activities about which  Senator Knight  was talking. 

 Senator Harradine made some remarks about the fact that a large number of Croats had been smeared. I want to take the opportunity to say that I did not intend that in any way. In fact, I used the word 'fringe' very carefully. Unfortunately there are fringes existing not only in Australia but throughout the world today. There has been a bombing attack on a building in the United States of America. There has been a highjacking of a plane and I think only last week there was a bombing attack on the United Nations for which a group calling itself 'Croatian Liberation' or some similar name in fact took and claimed responsibility. I am sure that there would be no honourable senator in this place who would go along with those sorts of activities. One other point that was raised was in relation to the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that dealt with dual citizenship. It is a problem. Anybody reading the report will see that it is quite extensive and that in fact we cannot come down with a solution because, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said, there is no solution to it. It does not apply only to Yugoslavia but also to Greece which is one of the countries of which I can think straight away. It is obvious from the number of Yugoslavs and Greekswho are constantly in trouble that we will continue to have such incidents. I certainly do not approve of those incidents; I agree with the Minister that it does not seem as though we can do much to stop them. 
Amendment negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
) The Minister may give a certificate, in writing- 
certifying that a specified mission is, or is not, a diplomatic or consular mission of a country established in Australia with the consent of the Commonwealth; 
certifying that there is, or is not, located at specified premises an office of a diplomatic or consular mission of a country established in Australia with the consent of the Commonwealth; or 
certifying that there is, or is not, located at specified premises the residence of a member of a diplomatic or consular mission of a country established in Australia with the consent of the Commonwealth. 
I rise to speak in this debate for two reasons. Firstly, naturally enough, I wish to speak on the report. Secondly, I wish to complain about the delay in debating committee reports such as this. I believe that it should be compulsory that committee reports be debated within a period of, say, six months. I know that something has been done along those lines, but I think that the situation could be better. Time could be set aside weekly, if necessary, for consideration of committee reports. This is especially necessary in relation to foreign affairs when events pass us by very quickly. 
Unfortunately, it is often the case that by the time a report on foreign affairs is debated events have passed us by. We have a general debate on the subject and not a debate on the report itself. 
For example, I was on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which reported on Australia and the Middle East. That was a very good report. Unfortunately, when it was debated in the Senate, a great deal of time afterwards, a general debate took place on what had happened in the Middle East, and some of the crucial things we brought forward in that report were ignored. One of them was oil storage capacities in this country, something of concern to all of us. Instead we talked about the rights of the Israelis and the Palestinians and other things that had occurred in the Middle East. I was a member of that Committee. I did not get a chance to speak on the report. 
-When the time for the debate finished a number of senators were still on the speaker's list and we did not get a chance to speak in it. In December 1976 this Committee called for submissions of evidence on its reference. Hearings commenced on 22 April 1977. The Committee concluded the taking of evidence on 1 September 1977. Now we are debating the Committee's report in August 1978, nearly 12 months later. I do not feel that this is satisfactory. 

 Senator Mcintosh raised the issue of the Committee visiting the area. Although three members of the Committee were able to visit certain countries in the South Pacific region these visits were not directly related to the Committee's reference. Throughout the inquiry, the Committee was aware of the limitations its deliberations may have suffered due to the lack of opportunity to canvass firsthand the views and opinions of the South Pacific Islanders on the subject and to inspect relevant aspects of Australia's work and involvement in the countries. I believe that  Senator Knight  attended a conference at the Australian National University. In answer to questions from some academics he had to say that the Committee wrote a report but that it did not go to the South Pacific. I know that some people would say that such a visit was a jaunt. I am sure that members of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee would not expect to go to the Middle East. We were inquiring into the South Pacific area, which is an area close by. We used interstate travel entitlements to attend meetings of the Committee in Perth. These entitlements certainly would have enabled us to visit at least one or two of the centres in the South Pacific where we could have talked with some of the people concerned. 
It is fair to say that in the past our presence in the South Pacific has not always been of benefit to the South Pacific. Our attitudes have changed as have those of the South Pacific countries. I hope that the change will develop into better relations and understanding between Australia and the South Pacific nations. If there is a theme in this report it is probably summed up in the paragraph which states: 
Because of its relative size and proximity Australia has been and remains a prominent feature on the South Pacific horizon. While there are clear signs of a new awareness in Australia of its South Pacific neighbours and an increased participation in the affairs and development of the region there remains some uncertainty and scepticism in the region as to Australia's role. But there is increasing acceptance that a genuine effort is being made by Australia to be a partner in the region and to contribute to its progress. Australia has made a substantial increase in its financial contribution to the development of South Pacific countries but the Committee realizes that money alone cannot ensure friendship, win respect or necessarily promote development. 
We went on to mention Australia 's relations with the South Pacific. We covered the way we should go about improving them. Again I think that perhaps the position is best summed up from the report, when we stated: 
It is recommended that Australia's initiatives should convey the message that close and friendly relations are desired equally with all South Pacific countries and that no one country should predominate in Australia's diplomacy. While Australia has responsibilities towards Papua New Guinea this does not relegate other countries to a secondary position in our considerations. 
The Committee believes that it is important for Australia to encourage and welcome further diplomatic representation from the region in Australia and recommends that assistance should be given to the establishment of this representation where possible. The Committee notes that Australia has recently increased its diplomatic missions and extended its representation in the region and recommends that this high level of representation be maintained and kept under review. 
I wish now to deal with some of the recommendations that the Committee made. I shall not deal with all of them. Firstly, I make a few remarks about the Committee's recommendations on trade. 
In one of our recommendations on trade we stated: 
While Australia's commercial image in the South Pacific region is improving, it is recommended that close liaison between the Australian Government and Australian firms operating or intending to establish businesses in the South Pacific be promoted. Intending firms should be made aware of the host government's business guidelines to ensure that an acceptable code of business conduct is maintained. 
It is unfortunate that we have had a bad image in the past. I think that our image is improving. But I think it was a pity that one of the major firms working in the area did not co-operate with the Committee. I refer to W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd. That company was criticised, as was a number of other Australian firms. Companies such as Burns Philp and Co. Ltd, the Bank of New South Wales and Rheem Australia Ltd were all accused of exploiting people in the South Pacific. I think it is fair to say that representatives of all of those companies I have just mentioned came along and presented their points of view to the Committee. Burns Philp admitted that it had made some serious mistakes in the past, but at least it allayed some of the fears that the Committee had about that company's role in the South Pacific at the moment. It is a pity that Carpenters could not see its way clear to do exactly the same. Because it did not I am afraid it has left us with the opinion that its attitude is not the right one for the South Pacific at the present time. 
In the report we dealt then with Australian development assistance and development assistance identification, on which we made recommendations. We dealt then with the environment. This was one of the issues which I thought was particularly important because the South Pacific region is fortunate in relation to environmental matters. Comparatively little damage has occurred there, with the exception of Nauru and Ocean Island, where the mining of rock phosphate has caused serious harm to the natural surroundings. Of course, many of the countries in the area have expressed concern about the environmental damage that might have been caused by French nuclear testing in the region. That was an important issue. Another important issue was the fact that plans had been made for super tanker ports to be built on or near some of the islands in the South Pacific. When we dealt with this matter I was very pleased to find out that most of the countries involved were extremely aware of the environmental damage that could occur and also were extremely aware of the dangers that the French nuclear tests could pose for them. 
The Committee dealt with urbanisation, employment, education and health. On health, I and the rest of the Committee were amazed at what has happened to the people in the area. The changes in lifestyles due to increasing contact with1 the outside world have increased the incidence of diseases previously unknown in the region- for example, diabetes, heart disease and hypertension. The Committee recommended that Australia should continue to fund regional medical projects for the study and treatment of these diseases. It was a serious problem. When the Committee was made aware of the facts and saw some of the statistics we were amazed at the decline in the health standards of some of these people in the South Pacific because of their increased contact with the West. 
We dealt with social welfare and with cultures and traditions. I thought that the area of cultures and traditions was most vital. The Committee acknowledged the unique lifestyle of the islanders and endorsed the views often expressed by island leaders on the importance of their cultural heritage in maintaining these unique lifestyles. This was where we came into what seemed to be a paradoxical situation because the South Pacific is an area where internal communications are breaking down. It is not like the rest of the world where, with modern transportation, people are coming more and more in touch with the South Pacific. In fact, at the moment the trend internally in the South Pacific region is going the other way. One of the main reasons for this is that these days, with the international flights tending to over-fly the Pacific completely, there has been a breakdown of communications within the area. If one looks at the number of places where Qantas Airways Limited and Pan Am used to land aircraft in the South Pacific and then looks at the places where it lands planes now one finds that more and more communities have been cut off from communication, especially from Australia. We now have a situation where a flight flies from Sydney to San Francisco non-stop and completely over-flies Fiji, Hawaii- the lot. Only a few years ago the aircraft used to go to Western Samoa and a number of other islands- island hopping in the area. In fact, it was brought to the attention of the Committee that it was quicker to fly from Sydney to London or to Washington than it was, say, to go to Tonga or to American Samoa. 
A regional airline should be the answer, but of course regional airlines have not been a success; they have been a failure. It is an unfortunate fact that, no matter what work has been done by Qantas or by Air New Zealand, the nations of the South Pacific seem to all want their own airline. The result is that most of the airlines are losing money; the services are bad; there is competition and rivalry; and the network of communications in the South Pacific that only a few years ago was quite intensive is breaking down. Of course, what happens then is that the countries ask: 'What do we do to get over this breakdown? How do we get people back and improve our economic situation?' They turn to tourism. I believe, and I am sure that the rest of the Committee believes, that tourism is not the answer. We had some quite strong words to say about tourism. Concern was expressed to the Committee about the effect of tourism on the quality of life in the South Pacific. 
The Committee is conscious of the dilemma faced by the island governments and leaders in trying to rationalise the benefits of a tourist industry against its possible adverse impact on their people. On the one hand, much needed revenue is brought to a region by travellers. On the other hand, tourism contributes to urbanisation, dependence on foreign goods, possible downgrading of island cultures, increased prostitution and possible misuse of the environment. The thoughtless behaviour of some Australian tourists does little to foster friendly relations. The Committee is aware that the 'Ugly Australian' image is not unknown in the South Pacific. It is essential for the islanders to determine whether the benefits of tourism outweigh the social costs. The Committee noted that most island governments had adopted a more cautious approach to the development of tourism. The Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Government should consider action to ensure that Australian tourists going on to the South Pacific have available to them information on the traditions, culture and way of life of the islanders before their arrival. I think that that sums up the situation extremely well. Need I say any more? 
I was very pleased to hear  Senator Knight  remark on the role of  Dr Evatt  in the region. If one looks back at the history of the South Pacific region and at the history of Australia's involvement there one sees that  Dr Evatt  was perhaps the leading person to try to bring Australia into contact with the region. All of the recommendations of the Committee about which I have spoken present some of the major problems that face South Pacific governments. Australia's development assistance effort should be directed at alleviating some of these difficulties, but it should be done in such a way that we observe the wishes and the priorities that these governments determine for themselves. We are not helping them because we have any motive or wish to dominate their affairs but because we should be and want to be a good neighbour in a peaceful region. Our image is improving in the South Pacific but the task is not complete. So our efforts and help to these people is part of an ongoing program among a very small and sensitive group of countries that is extremely important to the future of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. In view of her answers to questions asked earlier this week, can the Minister give an estimate of the number of mothers who will not receive the family allowance next year because of their children 's separate incomes from family trusts and partnership arrangements? What percentage of children having an income would this represent? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Can you inform the Senate whether you are arranging to have  Sir John  Kerr hung in private or whether we will all be invited to a public hanging? 
It was not my intention to speak on the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill. But I have been listening to some of the comments that have been made. As a matter of fact, I did not know that this Bill was coming up for consideration. That is my fault. I must make some remarks on the Bill because at the moment I am paying for the years I spent in the surf life saving movement and for the amount of time I spent out on the beach. I certainly support what  Senator Wriedt  said about a national advertising campaign on skin cancer. I think especially that such a campaign should start in the schools. At the moment children from their earliest days are encouraged to spend their time on the beaches and the massive advertising which is going on makes it very fashionable to have a suntan. All the time we see in the advertising world the promotion of a lot of products that in fact do nothing at all to help to prevent skin cancer. 
When we go to doctors about the problem of skin cancer the first thing we are told by a lot of them is that we should get a hat or cap. When we go around and try to buy a hat today we are amazed to find that very few places stock hats anymore. As a matter of fact, I raised this issue with the secretary of the felt hatters union. He said: 'Nobody is making hats. They are going out of fashion. We as a union and as an industry are going out of business'. Certainly not for that reason only, I think that the wearing of hats should be promoted at a very early level in the schools, even if only to promote the wearing of the sort of caps that can be worn on the beach. 
Recently I went to three skin specialists with a problem that perhaps will keep me away from this chamber for some time next week. In speaking to the specialists about the general problem two of them raised the fact that there is not a chair of dermatology in any of the Australian universities. Again, this was raised by  Senator Wriedt.  I think that as a Parliament we should promote the establishment of a chair of dermatology. I think that the whole issue is important. A national advertising campaign on skin cancer starting in the schools should be supported by all honourable senators. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the proposal by the Australian Government to abolish Paternity Leave and restrict the provisions relating to Maternity Leave which are currently contained in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject the passage of any legislation which has as its purpose the abolition of Paternity Leave and the restriction of the Maternity Leave provisions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 25 1 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth- 
That as citizens of N.S.W. and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
We, the undersigned librarians at the Dixson Library, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, are gravely concerned at the following aspects of the 'Freedom of Information Bill 1978': 
That there are so many categories of exempt documents. 
That Ministers and senior Public Servants will have absolute power to grant exemption certificates denying access to documents. 
That there will be no right of appeal against exemption certificates. 
That an unduly long period of 60 days is allowed for decisions on access to documents. 
That the provisions of the Bill will not apply retrospectively. 
As professional librarians we are strongly committed to maintaining the free flow of information which is essential to any elightened democracy. We believe that the Bill, if passed in its present form, will not achieve its stated object or ensuring free and full access to official documents. 
Your petitioners therefore respectfully urge that the Bill be referred to a Senate Committee of Inquiry, and that the Committee give particular attention to  the  provisions outlined above. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the situation in the State of Michigan in the United States where a large stockfeed firm- the Michigan Farm Bureau- inadvertently mixed with stockfeed a highly toxic industrial chemical known as PVB, instead of the normal supplement, resulting in the poisoning of millions of people and the slaughter of tens of thousands of head of livestock? What, if any, precautions are in force in Australia to prevent this type of action occurring and will the Minister investigate the possibility of seeking controls over all sorts of chemicals used on or near farms? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs outline the criteria by which the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs determines the eligibility of persons to migrate to Australia as refugees? Is it true that certain nationals, such as Lebanese, are now automatically excluded from the refugee category, without regard to individual circumstances? 
I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our schools be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for. 
. Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- A petition has been lodged for presentation as follows: 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the assertions made by  Mr Richard  Hall in a new publication called  The Secret State-  specifically those that allege that the KGB and other foreign intelligence organisations have infiltrated Australian intelligence organisations- will the Government consider establishing a confidential joint party parliamentary committee to review the activities and staffing of all Australian intelligence organisations along similar lines to the current practice in the United States of America? 
I wish to raise a matter concerning civil aviation. I am concerned at an apparent campaign against European based airlines aimed at disallowing them landing rights in Australia. Amongst the carriers concerned are KLM Royal 
Dutch Airlines, the first international carrier into Australia. As a matter of fact it has been bringing people to Australia for 40 years- as KNILM Royal Netherlands East Indies Airline it operated to Australia as early as 1 938. Other carriers concerned are UTA, Lufthansa, Alitalia and JAT airlines. It seems to me that a rumour has been floated about the closing down of landing rights to test public reaction. As a result in the Senate we have had protests and petitions, especially from groups of former citizens of the countries concerned, asking that the situation be clarified, especially in support of KLM and JAT airlines. Naturally a large number of these people when travelling home to Europe choose to fly with the carrier of their former country. That is why I was surprised when  Senator Peter  Baume presented a petition which stated: 
That the JAT- Yugoslav Airlines service between Australia and Belgrade is a disservice to most airline travellers because: 
1 ) Persons seeking a visa to Yugoslavia are subjected to standover tactics by the staff of the Yugoslav consulates in order to induce them to fly by JAT. 
) JAT travel agencies are understood to function as an extension of the Yugoslav Secret Service UDBA. 
On arrival in Yugoslavia tourists are questioned by authorities as to whether they flew by JAT, and if not they are met with disapproval and severe criticism. 
The quality of service as offered by JAT is below international standards in all respects, and particularly as regards to health standards. 
That is certainly the situation. I have presented petitions here with which I have either agreed or disagreed. The reason I am raising this matter is not only because of the petition concerning JAT Airlines but also because in mid-June of this year I represented the Australian Labor Party at a conference in Belgrade. I travelled by JAT and therefore I think I am in a position to deal with some of the points raised in the petition. The preamble to the petition states that the Yugoslav airlines service between Australia and Belgrade is a disservice to most airline travellers. At the time I made the booking I found a quite remarkable situation when I rang Qantas Airways and JAT. Qantas flies one 747 aircraft to Belgrade each week and JAT flies two 707 aircraft. That means a capacity of approximately 700 people travelling between Australia and Belgrade each week. I found out that all the airlines were booked out for two weeks in both first and economy classes. I repeat that that is a quite remarkable situation. I also found that JAT is the only airline that lands in Skopje which is the capital of Macedonia. This is obviously a service to former Macedonians who now live in Australia and who wish to travel home. Therefore they can avoid a trip to Belgrade and a return to Skopje which is what they would have to go through if they travelled by Qantas. Bookings this heavy could certainly not be said to point to a disservice. The petition goes on to state: 
1 ) Persons seeking a visa to Yugoslavia are subjected to standover tactics by the staff of the Yugoslav consulates in order to induce them to fly by JAT. 
This is something that I cannot comment about. In fact this could certainly be true. Paragraph 2 states: 
JAT travel agencies are understood to function as an extension of the Yugoslav Secret Service UDBA. 
Again this is something that could also be true but I would think that this would apply to some other airlines and certainly some other travel agencies that exist in Australia at present. Paragraph 3 states: 
On arrival in Yugoslavia tourists are questioned by authorities as to whether they flew by JAT, and if not they are met with disapproval and severe criticism. 
Again this could be true. However I am sure that this would not apply to Australian citizens who did not formerly come from Yugoslavia. In fact Qantas has informed me that this is not the position with people who travel by Qantas to Belgrade. As far as security generally is concerned I was perturbed recently to receive information that a large Asian carrier that operates out of Sydney and Melbourne was allowing people with diplomatic immunity- that is people with diplomatic passports- to carry weapons, mainly hand guns, on its aircraft. Qantas does not allow that situation. This has led to a number of people from certain embassies and consulates in Australia switching their custom from Qantas to this Asian carrier. I think this is a point which should concern all people who travel out of Australia, especially on the Asian sector. I was concerned about paragraph 4 in the petition which states: 
The quality of service as offered by JAT is below international standards in all respects, and particularly as regards to health standards. 
I am not saying that JAT is the best airline in the world. It is certainly not. But it is certainly not the worst airline in the world. It uses equipment from the United States of America. At the moment it is flying Boeing 707, 727 and DC 10 aircraft, amongst other equipment. The DC10 aircraft have recently been introduced on the BelgradeNew York route. I believe that this Government at the moment is preventing JAT flying the 
DC 10 aircraft on the Sydney route. I believe that the present Government has offered it landing rights for one DC 10 aircraft a week whereas JAT wants landing rights for two planes. This means that if the airline were allowed to fly in one DC10 aircraft as opposed to two 707 aircraft there would certainly be a reduction in the number of seats available on the Sydney to Belgrade route. I am certainly not comparing JAT with Qantas. I believe that Qantas is one of the best airlines in the world. Recently I was talking to a number of people from all over the world who were in Australia on a travel convention. They mentioned SAS, Lufthansa, Singapore Airlines and one of the Brazilian airlines, but in all of the conversations Qantas came up as one of the top three airlines in the world. 
I made inquiries about the health standards about which I was concerned and I found that all the meals for JAT when it leaves Australia are prepared by Qantas and that when it leaves Singapore all the meals are prepared by Singapore Airlines. Therefore, as far as the meals are concerned, the health standards would be the same as those which apply to any other airline leaving Australia or Singapore. At the turnabout in Sydney all interior servicing- that is, the cleaning of the toilets and the cleaning out of the aircraft- is done by Qantas. The same sort of thing occurs in Singapore where it is all done by Singapore Airlines. Therefore, I am at a loss to understand why we get a petition which complains about the health standards of this airline. 
I am a supporter of Qantas. I have spoken quite a few times in the Senate in support of Qantas. However, I am concerned at the apparent campaign to favour Qantas and British Airways on the Sydney to Europe sector. I believe that the campaign could damage our relations with other countries. I believe also that Australian Government representatives in Yugoslavia would be embarrassed by the sentiments which are expressed in the petition and, therefore, that the Government should make its intention clear, avoid speculation and make a statement as to the future of the European carriers. A number of people who have come from Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia and Holland are seeking, particularly at this point, to bring to this country many of their elderly relatives. It is natural that they should seek to bring these people on the aircraft of the carrier of the country which has looked after them, which speaks their appropriate language and which can give them the relevant service. For this reason again I emphasise the point that the Government should make a statement as to the future of these European carriers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What, if any precautions are in force in Australia to prevent an accident similar to an accident in Michigan, United States of America, where a large stockfeed firm- the Michigan Farm Bureau- inadvertently mixed a highly toxic industrial chemical known as PVB with stockfeed, instead of the normal supplement, resulting in the poisoning of millions of people and the slaughter of tens of thousands of head livestock. 
Will the Minister investigate the possibility of seeking controls over all chemicals used on or near Australian farms. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport investigate allegations that an Asian airline is allowing certain people with diplomatic passports to carry hand guns on its flights into and out of Australia in contravention of International Civil Aviation Organisation regulations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
What is the Government's attitude to the method of human rights diplomacy, currently being debated in the United States of America legislature, which applies pressure to a Government in relation to the treatment of individual citizens? 
What alternative strategies for improvement in human rights negotiations is the Australian Government prepared to undertake? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a reference to the statement made by the Fijian delegates to the South Pacific Conference held in Noumea last week. The statement accused the Australian Government of paternalism and disinterest in regard to its relations with the South Pacific nations. The statement in part said: 
Yesterday,  Mr Chairman,  we heard one of the countries represented here say that it cannot make a decision on an issue of crucial importance to the island countries unless and until it has sought and obtained clearance from its capital. 
The statement went on: 
How much longer are we, the island countries and, in fact, Ministers representing island peoples at this conference, to allow ourselves to be treated in this insulting and paternalistic way. 
Similar sentiments were expressed by delegates from Western Samoa and the New Hebrides. In the light of this, will the Minister consider making a statement to the Parliament regarding Australia's present relations with the South Pacific nations? Will the Minister explain why the Minister representing the Government was not present for the full Conference? Further, will the Minister undertake to ensure that there is representation at least at Cabinet level at such future conferences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Will the Minister make a detailed statement to the Parliament concerning the Government's view of the various issues related to the West Irian-New Guinea border conflict, and the attitude of the Government to this conflict. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, although it also concerns the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that employers, particularly in the retail and wholesale industries, make a practice of employing juniors and then discharging them, often on spurious grounds, when they become eligible for full adult pay? This means that juniors then have difficulty in applying for unemployment benefits and may even be deprived of benefits. Is the Minister considering any action to prevent this practice and/or of alleviating the difficulties they experience when applying for unemployment benefits, especially at this time of tragically high levels of youth unemployment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It concerns the staff of Medibank and arises out of a question that was asked yesterday by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Will the Government increase the offer of a lump sum payment to redundant staff to make it more realistic and more equitable in relation to the income maintenance provisions that have already been agreed to and already passed by the Public Service Arbitrator? Will the Government's publicity make it clear that not only does Medibank Private still exist but also that people can register for the 40 per cent benefit with that fund? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the fact that the Treasurer, on 8 June, when introducing legislation to crack down on tax advantages for money earned overseas, said that the present system seriously prejudices the equity of the system- may even be an incentive for the diversion of economic activity away from Australia- and that the present rules lend themselves to tax avoidance through the diversion of income to low tax or no tax countries, how does the Minister now justify the decision to scrap the planned tax reforms? 
I  present the following petition from 2 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that there is widespread concern in the Lebanese community in Australia at the inaction of the United Nations in regard to the civil war in Lebanon? Will the Minister undertake to have Australia sponsor a resolution in the United Nations calling for the international peacekeeping force to intervene in the Lebanon crisis and for the withdrawal of all Syrian troops from the region? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that the general public is utterly confused over the issue of socalled cheap air fares and the future of the role of the European-based carriers, will the Minister consider making a further statement on this matter to clarify the position? 
I have no wish to delay the passage of the Appropriation Bills and will be brief.  Senator Robertson  has dealt with the history and establishment of the Estimates committees, a matter to which I had intended to refer. The honourable senator also referred to the matter of taking evidence in camera. From my experience during the years that I have been a member of the Senate I know that at times we should have in camera evidence. There are aspects of the estimates of Departments of Foreign Affairs and Defence on which, if evidence is not given in camera, we will not receive the best information. 
I wish to complain about the way in which this year the departments were grouped for consideration by the Estimates committees. I was a member of the old Senate Estimates Committee A, which dealt with the Departments of Administrative Services, the Parliament, Prime Minister and Cabinet, National Resources, Foreign Affairs and Defence. This year, without notice, we were told that the departments to be reviewed by Senate Estimates Committee A would now include those of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and Cabinet and Foreign Affairs, as formerly, but also those of Education and Treasury. This meant I had to make a choice between sitting on the committee which dealt with Foreign Affairs and sitting on that which dealt with Defence. Unfortunately, I had spent a great deal of time, as had my staff, in researching both departments. We then found that we were placed in this unfortunate position. I believe that  Senator McLaren,  another member of Senate Committee A, also had a lot of material prepared on the two departments and was placed in a similar position. 
I know it can be said- some senators have already said it- that one can visit other committees, but this is not practical. When one attempts to do so one finds that the meetings clash, or one sometimes leaves one's own committee short of a quorum. The result of all this was that I ended up on Committee F which dealt with the Departments of Defence, Business and Consumer Affairs and Finance and the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Those departments embrace authorities such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I felt that before I could inquire into the Commission I needed to undertake special research. I do not feel that there was time to do so. Perhaps over two or three years one can develop some degree of expertise, but I certainly could not do so in the time that was available this year. Previously Committee A had dealt with departments which had many similar interests, lt considered Foreign Affairs, Defence, and Administrative Services. The latter included a number of areas such as Overseas Property, which has links with both Foreign Affairs and Defence. At the moment I am on a committee that is looking into the Department of Foreign Affairs and one matter that continually arises is the role of Administrative Services and Overseas Property. Formerly, Estimates Committee A provided for a continuation of interest in all of these departments. 
I hope that the regroupings this year were not deliberate. I say that because it has been said that some senators who were able to follow issues from one year to the next were delaying the work of the committees; that this could have been the reason for the regrouping. I know that Senators McLaren and Douglas McClelland and I have followed over a period of three years a number of issues which concerned the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Administrative Services, including Overseas Property, and the Parliament, as well as issues that had arisen relative to the Governor-General and the establishment of his office. We served for those three years and we found the costs recurring. We became quite expert on these subjects. This year suddenly we were asked to make a choice as to which department we were to follow. I hope that the regrouping was not deliberate. If it was it would raise a doubt as to whether the Government wants a thorough examination of the Estimates or simply wants them rubber-stamped and out of the way. 
I appeal to the Government to link the consideration of departments which have similar interests, as have been indicated in some of the examples I have given. I would suggest that one Estimates committee deal with the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Administrative Services and Veterans' Affairs, and perhaps- if that were not enough- the Department of the Special Trade Representative. Alternatively, I would ask the Government to stick with the present departmental groupings. That would enable senators to follow the activities of departments from one year to the next and develop expertise on matters of special interest. On particular subjects, such as telecommunications, it would give us an opportunity over the years to become more expert. If consideration of the Estimates is to be successful it must be treated seriously. There must be scrutiny of the best kind. 
I agree with  Senator Robertson  that the making available to the committees of research staff has been a great success, but if one depends only on them one has to follow their line of questioning and does not have an opportunity to pursue matters from one year to the next. If honourable senators are well briefed and can carry out a thorough scrutiny, not only is the Parliament better served but so too are the people of Australia. I ask the Government to consider my remarks and hopefully implement them the next time it considers the matter of Senate Estimates committees. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It refers to the bugging of the Australian Embassy in Moscow. Is it a fact that staff ceilings, financial constraints and travel restrictions that affect the section of the Department of Foreign Affairs that deals with personnel and protective and technical security have resulted in fewer inspections of Australia's overseas missions, thereby increasing the security risks at these missions? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it correct that the Prime Minister's official car, a Mercedes Benz which was purchased for the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  for approximately $9,500, will be sold for a figure in excess of $25,000? Will the Minister take this type of saving into account when official vehicles are purchased for use in Australia and at our overseas posts? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It also concerns  Mr Harry  M. Miller. Is it a fact that  Mr Harry  M. Miller, acting on behalf of the former GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, approached commercial television networks in Australia seeking to arrange interviews with  Sir John  Kerr on a commercial basis? Is it also a fact that no commercial network showed any interest in the deal and that pressure is now being applied on the Australian Broadcasting Commission to screen the interviews? 
I present the following petition from 1 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the proposal by the Australian Government to abolish Paternity Leave and restrict the provisions relating to Maternity Leave which are currently contained in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject the passage of any legislation which has as its purpose the abolition of Paternity Leave and the restriction of the Maternity Leave provisions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the fact that the International Labour Organisation has condemned the Australian Government's industrial legislation which allows for the immediate stand-down, suspension or dismissal of public servants for engaging in industrial action, will the Government give consideration to repealing the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
How are items classified under the 'D' notice system; who has the authority to classify items; and how are items under the 'D' notice system reviewed as circumstances change. 
Will the Government critically examine the whole 'D' notice system to determine whether or not it is adequate to deal with important matters in this way. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the proposal by the Australian Government to abolish Paternity Leave and restrict the provisions relating to Maternity Leave which are currently contained in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject the passage of any legislation which has as its purpose the abolition of Paternity Leave and the restriction of the Maternity Leave provisions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General: Will those pensioners eligible for legal aid in the alleged New South Wales social security frauds be able to brief their own counsel with whom they have been working for many months in actions before the Supreme Court and be granted legal aid to retain them? 
Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who represents the Minister for Transport, agree that one of the reasons why Australians pay such inordinately high internal air fares may be the fact that Ansett Airlines of Australia has been diverting profit from its airline activities into organisations such as Associated Securities Ltd? 
-I move: 
1 ) That a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon- 
all aspects of existing electoral laws affecting the Australian Parliament; 
b) changes that should be made to existing legislation; 
the provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates in Federal election campaigns and the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance by corporations and individuals to these parties and candidates; and 
the possibility of establishing fixed election dates subject to a Government retaining the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the Committee be contained in a subsequent Resolution. 
I think it is a most reasonable and rational proposition to set up a committee to investigate the matters referred to. We need a major overhaul of the Australian electoral laws. There has never been one. For the past three years relevant Ministers for Administrative Sendees have been promising a full review of the electoral laws but as yet nothing has happened. In moving this motion I would like to deal with several reasons why Australia needs some form of public funding and therefore why we need a parliamentary committee to investigate this matter and report to the Parliament. If I have time I shall also deal with some general electoral matters arising from the question of party funds and the pecuniary interests of individual parliamentarians and parliamentary parties. 
The first and most obvious reason why Australia needs to introduce some form of subsidies for political parties is that election campaigning in Australia has become a very expensive business. In the last decade costs have escalated to levels that parliamentarians a generation ago- in the days of soap box campaigning- could never have imagined. As we are all well aware, the means of real communication with the electors is no longer street corner meetings and rallies in parks, but television, radio and national newspaper advertisements. The incredible costs of these basic tools of political communication, not to mention the cost of market research and opinion polls, are necessary aspects of modern political campaigning. The traditional funding sources of the major as well as the minor political parties can no longer supply the funds to do this. I have mentioned market research. It is a new area. It is an area to which the major parties are committed. It is an area which the major parties will be using more and more in their political campaigning in the future. It is certainly a very expensive area of campaigning and it will continue to be expensive in the future. 
If we look at the history of political funding it is apparent to us, first of all, that the general flow of funds has been particularly meagre in the case of the Australian Labor Party. The Labor Party traditionally gets a large percentage of its funds- approximately 70 per cent- either directly or indirectly from the industrial labour movement. The rest is made up of relatively small private donations. The Government parties have historically received most of their funds from private donors. I suppose many of them are individuals who give donations because they believe for their own reasons in what the Government stands for. A lot of the funds of the conservative parties have come from large businesses and recently from large corporations based overseas whose interests often are not reconcilable with the public interests in Australia. We had a situation in Victoria in which  Mr Lynch  received a campaign donation from a  Mr Leek-  a cheque for $12,000. He apparently did not even notice it or at least he was quoted as saying that he did not notice the extra funds. In the Labor Party a $12,000 cheque is not generally treated as petty cash and would certainly be a noticeable contribution to a House of Representatives candidate in any election. 
I would certainly think that one would. 
I would certainly think that any $12,000 donation in a local campaign account for a House of Representatives seat should be known by any political party in Australia. The Australian Labor Party runs campaigns for House of Representatives seats for many rural electorates and many metropolitan electorates where the whole cost of the campaign would not reach $ 12,000. 
I have just said that traditionally we get most of our funds- 70 per cent of our funds- directly or indirectly from the trade union movement. 
Of course we are aware of them. I am sure the honourable senator is aware of them because there is usually a great deal of publicity when a union hands over a cheque of that size. In fact, a donation of that size is a very rare donation. This leads me to my next point. Recently there has been a sad history of scandals overseas. Brilliant careers have been ruined by a moment's weakness, governments have been destroyed because of a party official's short sightedness or oppositions have been discredited because of a hint of possible or potential corruption. We all know the situation of exPresident Nixon in the United States but also I think one could say that the main reason for the resignation of the ex-Chancellor of West Germany, Willy Brandt, was an aide's deception for which he took full responsibility. If there is one thing that Nixon and the Watergate scandal did, it was to make the climate in America very susceptible to a change in the laws concerning political funding for the Presidential campaign. There are a number of laws now in force in the United States that I should think would be opposed by a large number of Government members in the Senate. One of the things that impressed me very much was to be able to go to the United States electoral commission and be able to purchase for 10 cents a page a list of all the donations for that day ranging from $5 upwards that had been made to Presidential candidates. It was there and it was available. That is one of the things that we ought to be looking at in Australia. 
As I have said, most recently there have been a number of overseas scandals concerning the origin of party funds because the amounts have become larger. The apparent deals and conditions of donations have become correspondingly greater and more embarrassing. A number of speakers on the Opposition side of the chamber, including myself, expressed their concern during the Address-in-Reply debate at the deepening cynicism in the Australian community towards the Parliament. There have been continual rumours about party funding. Surely this causes a large section of the community seriously to doubt the ethics and moral commitment of government. This cynicism about government not only breeds political extremism but also deadens the electorates' political awareness. Whilst the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  might think it is good that the vast majority of Australians turn to the sports pages first when reading the newspapers, I would like to see a community politically and constructively critical of governments and of society. I believe that this is essential to true democracy. I believe that most of the problems about which I have been speaking arise not because party officials and parliamentarians are inherently dishonest- at least not the vast majority of dedicated people on both sides of the political fence- but because of the difficulty of making ends meet in election campaigns today. 
Another important reason why I am moving this motion is the obvious inequity between the parties and between certain candidates. I intend to refer to my home state of New South Wales of which I have some direct knowledge as a former assistant general secretary of the party in that State. The Labor Party in New South Wales is the wealthiest and largest branch of the ALP. It has the largest number of affiliated trade unions. I understand that the New South Wales Liberal Party has lately become the poor second cousin in relation to the Queensland National Party or the Victorian or Western Australian branches of the Liberal Party. Yet when one compares the facilities of the New South Wales Liberal Party with the New South Wales Labor Party it is rather indicative of the ALP's plight and for that matter the present plight of the Australian Democrats in trying to compete today. 
The ALP in New South Wales has two fulltime organisers on relatively low salaries, two assistant general secretaries, a general secretary and one full-time research officer; and the restfour in all- are part-time organisers on a small allowance. So the organisational staff of the largest branch of the ALP consists of six full-time and four part-time members. The New South Wales Liberal Party has, as far as I am aware, a full-time research staff of five as well as administrative staff and one full-time field officer for every three federal electorates. In electorates where the Labor Party is not strong in membership terms we rely entirely on overworked volunteers. The Liberal Party in New South Wales traditionally has had sufficient funds to pay people to staff booths that their members will not go near. I know that in the last State elections this was not the case but it has traditionally been so. In referring to the Liberal Party and its staff in New South Wales I have not referred to the fact that the National Country Party has a very large field staff especially when House of Representatives and Senate elections are being held. 
In short, parties like the Democrats, the ALP, independents like  Senator Harradine,  and the gone but not easily forgotten Democratic Labor Party have to rely on a handful of dedicated supporters while the major Government parties can hire small private armies to help in elections. 

 - Senator, are you saying that the Liberals of New South Wales or Victoria have never paid people to work on election booths in the past? I would think they have. 
The situation in New South Wales is that this practice has been widespread for a number of years. 
Of course you get hundreds of volunteers, but they are not all volunteers. Continuous allegations by one party against another, such as we have just listened to, and by the Press against one of the other parties concerning the origin of its campaign funds, have served to undermine the people's confidence in the political process. Undoubtedly some of these allegations are true, and this is a matter for general concern. State aid for political parties would reduce or perhaps even eliminate corruption where it exists and improve the quality of communication between the various political parties and electorates and also, more importantly, improve the standing of the Parliament in the eyes of the people. I believe that it is time we looked at the options open to us in relation to public funding because almost every comparable parliamentary democracy has some form of public aid. I will name just some of those countries. They include Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Great Britain, France, Japan, the United States of America, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, West Germany and Italy. I am certainly not dogmatic about which of the many possible systems Australia could adapt to suit its needs. That is why I have not drafted a motion proposing any particular type of system. Rather, I have left the possible terms of reference of the proposed committee very broad so that it will be up to the committee to investigate a wide variety of comparable systems which at present operate overseas, somewhat like the Houghton committee did in Great Britain. 
I intend briefly to compare three different systems currently in operation. The first is the West German system. In West Germany political parties are recognised by the Constitution, which of course is not the case in Australia although I personally feel that there is a strong case that they should be. State aid for political parties takes several forms of which the most important is for election campaign expenses. Payments are spaced over a period of four years, with the greater part being paid during election years. A law introduced in 1967 lays down the rules for subsidy through grants advanced for election purposes based on the performance of the parties concerned at the last election. An agreed sum is fixed for each elector according to the number of votes polled for each of the parties. This system operates in such a way that it is necessary to win seats in the lower House to qualify for aid. Any party donation over and above $6,000 must be specified by the name and address of the donor. This is the only accounting requirement by law for a political party wishing to qualify for aid. Each political grouping is also given a proportionate sum of money to maintain research facilities for its parliamentary representatives. In passing I mention that parliamentarians are also required by law to give a proportion of their salary to their party if they wish to qualify for local campaigning aid. 
Each party receives a subsidy for the purpose of party research and educational institutions. I believe this would be invaluable in Australia from the point of view of increasing communication between the party, the parliamentarians and the general electorate. Party education is important because it improves the general understanding of politics and government within the community. I am not an historian but I have a sense of pride in the history and traditions of my party and its role in Australia's development and I am saddened that many ALP members and supporters and of the general community have little access to specialised resources on Labor's history and politics generally. Many otherwise educated Australians know little, if anything, about the parliamentary process, its evolution and role in the nation's development. Surely this is a matter of intrinsic concern to us all on both sides of the chamber. As I said earlier, my colleagues and I on this side of the chamber have nothing to fear from history and we are confident that we would only gain from a more politically educated electorate. I expect that if the members of the Government have any sense of pride in their government they will feel exactly the same way. 
The second system that I wish to talk about briefly is the system that presently operates in Canada which has an electoral system more like ours than the system in the Federal Republic of Germany. The Canadian Elections Act of 1974 introduced a system of financial aid to political parties. Candidates are partially reimbursed for election expenses if they are elected or receive more than 15 per cent of the total votes cast in their electoral district. The extent of reimbursement is decided by ascertaining whichever is the lesser of the two amounts, namely, the amount of the candidate's expenses as stated on his or her own declaration or an amount which is the aggregate of, firstly, the postage costs of mailing an ounce or less to each elector; secondly, 8c for the first 25,000 names on the preliminary list of electors; and thirdly, 6c for every formal vote cast in excess of 25,000 electors. The National Country Party senators might take note that there is a special allowance for candidates in specified remote electorates which is why the Canadian system is of some importance in Australia where the geographical size of the electorates varies enormously, as it does in Canada. In Canada there are also tax credits for political donations up to a specified maximum which at present is the equivalent of $A435 in any one year for a donation to the political party of the donor's choice. 
The last national system of State political aid that I wish to talk about operates in Britain. Britain of course has an electoral system which is almost identical to ours, at least in terms of the correlation between our House of Representatives and Britain's House of Commons. Britain also has a political culture that is very similar to our own. The Houghton committee which was set up in Britain recommended that to qualify for a grant a political party, at the previous election, must have firstly saved the deposits of its candidates in at least six constituencies. As most honourable senators will realise, a candidate saving his deposit is a traditional index of his degree of popular support. The recommendations continue: Secondly, as a party, it must have polled at least 150,000 votes and had at least one member elected in the previous election; or thirdly, as a party, it must have had at least two of its candidates returned as members in the previous election. 
It is very interesting to note the reaction of the various parties to the recommendation of the Houghton committee report. The Conservative Party said that it did not believe in state aid. The Labour Party said that as the parties were indispensable to democracy they should be assisted. It was finding things difficult and came down in favour of state aid being given to political parties. The co-operative party said that it also would support state aid. The Liberal Party said that previously it had a view which opposed state aid but that now it came down in support of it. The Confederation of British Industry came down reluctantly in favour of a limited form of state aid. The British United Industrialists came down in favour of the present system of private donations. A number of trade unions were opposed to the idea. Also, a number of major trade unions were in support of the idea. Other groups throughout England had mixed views on whether state aid should be provided. 
I outline to the Senate the results of a survey taken throughout England of people representing the various political parties. Of the 91 replies received from various sections of the Labour Party throughout the United Kingdom, 69 were in favour of state aid, 10 were opposed to it and 12 were neutral. In spite of the fact that the Conservative Party in its formal submission to the Houghton inquiry said that no state aid should be given to political parties, of the 84 replies received from the Conservative Party 32 were in favour of state aid, 39 were opposed to it and 13 were neutral. Of the 80 replies received from Liberal Party organisations throughout Great Britain 63 were in favour of state aid and 10 were opposed to it. A survey of the British public commissioned by the Houghton committee, without any canvassing at all, showed that 45 per cent of people interviewed were opposed to state aid for political parties and that 44 per cent were in favour of it. Of course, this was before either of the major parties made an issue of it. 
Under this system new parties could easily enter the political scene and old ones could fade out. For example,  Senator Chipp  and  Senator Mason  might find it interesting that under a system similar to that recommended by the Houghton Committee, their party, the Australian Democrats, the newest party in Australian politics, would be eligible for a significant amount of state aid in the next election, having established that their party is a popular force and that it had considerable electoral support at the last election. However, the Democratic Labor Party would have lost any state support as its electoral support declined. Thus public funding would not have affected the fluidity of the political process. With the right sort of system, state aid does not cause a stagnation of the political process in favour of the two major parties. The total cost of implementing the recommendation of the Houghton Committee in Britain was estimated at $3,375,000. The total cost would be much lower for a similar scheme in Australia provided that it was introduced only at a national level because the Houghton committee report referred to local government authorities as well as the national Parliament. 
I make the point that all of the nations which presently have some form of political funding are among the most democratic in the world and in most countries where systems of political funding have been operating they have been so since the beginning of this decade. All of these countries remain working parliamentary democracies and, if anything, they have become more truly democratic at a time when the number of true parliamentary democracies has declined throughout the world. Finally, I outlined earlier in this speech the various ways in which the obligations and functions of political parties have increased in the past decade, while the sources of funds open to political parties have either remained static or are actually decreasing. If political parties in a democracy fail to meet these new challenges that democracy will fail. That is what I fear most if we ignore or defeat this motion now or in the forseeable future I commend the motion to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Jessop)-  Is there a seconder of the motion? 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Knight)  adjourned. 
-Firstly, I agree with what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wreidt)  said earlier about the timing of this debate. I do not believe it is good enough that tonight we are debating a comprehensive, 19-page report on the global situation which was presented this afternoon. We deserved an interval of at least 24 hours in which to look at it and thus be able to make a better contribution to the debate. 

 Senator Sheil spoke earlier in the debate. It is seldom that I agree with him but when he spoke about the borders of the African countries I thought he was right. He has to realise that those borders are remnants of our colonial past. He spoke about the elections in Rhodesia. I am glad to see that Great Britain and the United States are not going to support a puppet regime which I believe will fail regardless of the results in that election. I think that for once the foreign policies of Great Britain and the United States will be proved correct. They are not interfering with a government which I believe will not have the support of the people after the April elections. 

 Senator Kilgariff spoke on a number of issues and he mentioned the present roles of the Romanians and the Yougoslavs. It is very interesting to see the Romanians being critical of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the United Nations and also warning about the dangers of Warsaw Pact troops being used in South East Asia. From what I have read of the Romanian statements that country certainly would not commit its troops to South East Asia. 
Yugoslavia, not being a member of the Warsaw Fact, would not be in that situation, but Yugoslavia has its own problems at present in the form of border disputes with one of the Soviet Union's allies, Bulgaria. 
Although the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on important events throughout the world concentrated essentially on the recent developments in Indo-China, he did not review closely enough some of the mistakes that this Government has made with regard to this conflict, nor did he look sufficiently at the ramifications for the South East Asian region overall. The Sino- Vietnam conflict has made the whole of the Indo-China and South East Asia region far less stable. This conflict marks the entry of Sino-Soviet rivalry into the politics of the region on a scale greater than the rivalry between those two powers in Africa, or that of the United States and the Soviet Union in other part of the world. Unless there is a rapid conclusion, escalation of the conflict could well eventuate in a Soviet military strike against China. Viewed in the context of Sino-Soviet rivalry throughout the world, the implications are disastrous and could lead to a protracted conflict. Some commentators still have not ruled out the possibility of a fullscale conventional war between China and the Soviet Union. The situation on the Sino-Soviet border at present is that the Chinese have 9 1 divisions. The Soviet Union has 44 divisions, half of which are heavily armoured. Half the divisions could be activated in a matter of 24 hours and the full 44 divisions could be in conflict within a period of five or six days. 
Although some newspapers say that the Soviet Union has not placed its troops on alert, its 44 divisions on that border are in such a state of readiness that they do not have to be put on a 24-hour alert. In this situation a miscalculation could lead to World War III. The attitude of the Soviet Union at the moment has remained low key. I think that it has acted quite moderately up to the moment but I have no doubt that there are some people in the Soviet armed forces who would like to encourage a pre-emptive strike against China. Luckily enough, at the moment those people do net seem to have the numbers in the Politburo, which is where the decision would be made. I think it is also fortunate from this point of view that it is not in the interests of Vietnam to encourage a Soviet military strike against China since the Chinese would then be forced to take rapid strike action against Vietnam in order to neutralise their southern flank. This does not preclude the possibility of a nuclear strike. I know people say that a nuclear strike in that area is unthinkable, but I put it to honourable senators that the scenario is there at the moment and a miscalculation could lead to one occurring. I remember reading Harrison Salisbury's book in 1969 on the inevitability of a war between China and Russia. I did not think it was possible then but I have just started to read the book again. 
Yes, I did, as a matter of fact. My essential criticism of the Australian Government's current approach to Indo-China is that we have allowed ourselves to be seen as taking a pro-Chinese stance. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  on a number of occasions, has been seen as committing himself to one of the participants. On 19 February the  Sydney Morning Herald  said: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  was muted in his criticism yesterday of China's attack on Vietnam, claiming that it was a direct result of Vietnam's earlier invasion of Kampuchea. 
Of course the same Malcolm Fraser was such a staunch critic of Gough Whitlam 's China policy. In August 1 97 1 ,  Mr Fraser  said: 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  has ignored China's support for revolutionary warfare, he has ignored the fact China is building strategic military roads in Asia. 
At that time he made a number of other statements that showed that he was violently opposed to the Chinese. Then the other day we had the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  describing as 'louts' the unionists who were blocking wheat shipments to China in opposition to its invasion of Vietnam. I would say that if that action had been taken a few years ago he probably would have been recommending that medals be struck and given to the people that were stopping ships that were going to China. Recently  Mr Anthony  told Parliament: 
If there is to be this continual disruption and discrimination against China, because somebody  doesn 't  like its involvement in the Vietnam war, all I can say is that those people are doing great harm to a great Australian industry, to the nation as a whole and to our relationship with China. 
I do not think that basically I disagree with that statement but when one considers some of the remarks that  Mr Anthony  made a number of years ago concerning South East Asia one can see just how hypocritical that statement is. 
It is interesting and important to note that, whilst the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea obviously provoked Chinese intervention, the Chinese have not yet demanded Vietnamese withdrawal as a condition of the cessation of hostilities. It is also important to recognise that the escalation of any conflict between nations is usually a result of a series of real and sometimes imagined provocative actions between the two parties. I give two examples. Firstly the Khmer Rouge guerillas were frequently crossing the border and harrassing Vietnamese border positions for months before the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea. The other example, of course, is that the Vietnamese, as we know, have been exporting thousands of ethnic Chinese, especially the Wau people, throughout the last six months. These two examples show that neither side is innocent of provocative activity and, at the same time, show that both sides believe they are justified in their actions or at least believe that their cases are more justifiable than the case of their opponents. This is why it is essential that Australia does not allow itself to be seen as a partisan supporter of either side. 
Much attention has been given to the fact that Vietnam is a pro-Soviet regime but it is important to realise that the Vietnamese have been increasingly forced to rely on Soviet technology, advice and expertise because of the democratic nations' reluctance to help Vietnam gain access to United Nations developmental funds and, more recently, the cutting off of aid funds by many nations including and especially Australia. I believe it was a decision that was wrong and a decision that we will come to regret. I believe the Vietnamese still wish to avoid colonial dependence on any nation but the further they are forced into the Soviet strategic alliance the more intense Sino-Soviet rivalry in the Indo-Chinese and South Pacific region will become and the more likelihood there is of there eventually being a Soviet naval base in Cam Ranh Bay, both of which would be disastrous developments as far as Australia is concerned. It is fairly obvious that the Chinese believe that they have the tacit support of many Western nations for their actions.  Mr Lin  Ping made it clear in an interview on television by the Australian Broadcasting Commission that he interpreted  Mr Fraser  's statement as being sympathetic to China. 
Whilst it is fairly obvious that the Chinese are a greater potential source of trade for Australia and that it may be of benefit to Australia to share China's attitute in regard to the demilitarisation of the Indian Ocean and a reduction of super power activity in Asia it does not justify, either on moral grounds or strategic grounds, Australia's unqualified support for China. The highest priority for Australia must be the achievement of a cessation of armed conflict and the recognition by both sides of the principle of national sovereignty. Surely we have learned, after our tragic mistakes in Vietnam, that to support any super power in the area and give it unqualified support is wrong and will always be wrong. It amazes me that some government back benchers, some of the very same people who gave unqualified support to the United States in its wars in Vietnam, are now giving unqualified support to Chinese military action in the very same country. 
One has only to read in the newspapers some of the comments from the former hawks in that last conflict to see that there is muted admiration that somebody else has taken up the military position of the United States in Vietnam. 
I now wish to make some remarks about the situation in Iran. One of the things which concerned me about the situation in Iran was the lack of warning that we received generally- the lack of Western intelligence coming out of Iran and certainly the lack of warning in Australiaand why. From looking at the situation and trying to find out what was the position, it became quite obvious to me that we were not getting any intelligence out of Iran because we were taking the Shah's word on what was happening. If the United States had had a decent intelligence operation going in Iran, surely it would have known that the key to the whole of the conflict in that country was the political control of the 30,000 oil workers who brought down the former government and who could bring down the present government if they decided to take more political action and not to get the oil moving again. No wonder Australia, in those circumstances, had no prior warning of what was happening. Is it not ironic, as  Senator Wheeldon  was saying this afternoon, that Prime Minister Baktiar was one of the West's main hopes. The United States gave him unqualified support a matter of 24 hours after he was made Prime Minister. Who was  Mr Baktiar?  He was a colleague of Mossadegh. He worked with Mossadegh, whom the United States had helped to overthrow in August 1953. It is a strange turn of events. If the Mossadegh regime had not been overthrown, Baktiar might have been the Prime Minister of Iran and might have had the support of the people instead of being forced to flee the country in the way that he was. 
There will be a meeting of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries within the next month. It is quite possible there will be an oil price rise. I hope that the Government is closely watching the likely developments, especially in the light of the fact that a number of countries, including Great Britain and Japan, have already begun stockpiling oil in anticipation of a decision by OPEC that is contrary to the interests of those nations. One has only to look at the position in New Zealand to see what the situation will be if oil from Iran does not start flowing again and the OPEC countries put up the price. New Zealand will be placed in a horrendous situation. 
Weekend driving already has been cut out. If this situation occurs, I would say petrol will be rationed on a very strict basis. I wish to make some remarks on the related topic of defence. I know that it was not dealt with at length in the statement today, but the Prime Minister touched on it in the address he gave last week. In general terms, the Prime Minister's review of the defence situation was extraordinarily deceptive, since the depletion of capital expenditure which he claimed occurred under a Labor government was a result of action taken in a period in which he was Minister for Defence and defence expenditure was reduced on a votebuying basis. The capital expenditure which represents 12.9 per cent of total defence outlays this year, is almost entirely a result of orders initiated under previous Labor governments. Of the capital outlays mentioned by the Prime Minister, the orders for two of the three guided missile destroyers were announced by Labor, the construction of the  Tobruk  was announced by Labor and the purchase of 12 Hercules aircraft was announced by Labor. The modification of the FI 1 1Cs was announced by the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  However, in October 1 975 the Labor Minister for Defence announced that the FI 1 ls would be given in-flight refuelling capacity and stand-off weapon capability. In three years, all that has been achieved is provision for reconnaissance pods. The purchase of the two PC3 Orions was also announced by the Labor Government. 
I do not think that the statement is sound. It lacks depth. It lacks an understanding of the role Australia can play in this region. It is too simplistic. Our thinly-veiled support for one of the combatants in the Indo-China conflict at the moment is certainly not in Australia's long term interests. 
I present the following petition from 59 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question in the Senate last year in which the Minster told the Senate that there were 75 Australian Defence Department officers in Washington and to the fact that the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs refer to 93 Defence officers stationed in Washington. Can the Minister explain the discrepency between his answer to the question and the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs? Further, will he undertake to inform the Senate of the actual number of Defence Department officials stationed in Washington and provide a summary of the duties of the military personnel stationed there? 
My question is directed to either the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. In view of the decision of the New South Wales Government to establish a committee to investigate the possibility of public funding for political parties in election campaigns, will the Government reconsider the terms of the motion moved by me and seconded by  Senator Grimes  on 22 February calling for the establishment by the Federal Parliament of a joint committee to investigate the introduction of public funding of political parties at a Federal level? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that because of government regulations, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines flies out of Sydney to Europe on a weekly basis with 190 vacant seats out of a total seating capacity of 365 and that from May, JAT- Yugoslav Airlines will also be forced to fly out of Sydney to Europe with a reduced capacity of approximately 100 seats a week? As this is happening at a time when people cannot make reservations to Europe because of capacity booking, how does the Government reconcile this situation with its stated philosophy of free enterprise? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and arises out of a question asked earlier today by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Does the Government see any inconsistency in its reaction to the New South Wales power workers being granted a 37'A-hour week in view of the fact that power workers in Victoria already enjoy a 37W-hour week? Further, will the Minister comment on the possibility that the threats made by the Treasurer to reduce funds for New South Wales constitute an attack on States ' rights and threaten to undermine the relative harmony of State-Federal financial arrangements? 
I present the following petition from 121 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, or alternatively to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the Government has already made arrangements to print the literature and tickets necessary to introduce the rationing of aviation gasoline for agricultural use, particularly for crop dusting and other related activities? 
-The Minister for Social Security will be aware that present Government arrangements allow reduced rates of telephone rental for pensioners living alone. I draw her attention to the fact that the initial cost is a $200 connection fee where no service previously existed whilst the connection fee where a service has previously existed is only $34. Will the Minister review present Government policy in this regard with a view to introducing concessional rates for connection fees for pensioners eligible for telephone rent concessions so that any coincidental inequities will be eliminated? 
I will be very brief. I wish to make a few remarks about this defence statement and also to support the remarks that were made earlier by  Senator Harradine.  It is not good enough for the Government to present a statement of 38 pages of which the Opposition did not have prior notice.  Senator Bishop  and I are both members of the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We did not know that the statement was to be presented. The fact is that the debate would have been adjourned and placed on the Notice Paper, and probably we would not have had an opportunity for some weeks to talk about the matter. 
Only the other day, we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a statement to the Parliament list a number of purchases of defence equipment supposedly initiated by this Government. Whilst it is true to say that this equipment has been purchased during this Government's term of office, most of it was ordered during the period of the Labor Government. The list that he read out contained only minor augmentations of defence equipment or slight increases in particular items. This was pointed out in both Houses in replies to the Prime Minister's statement, but for the record I will restate the position: Of the capital outlays the Prime Minister mentioned, the construction of two of the three guided missile destroyers was announced by the Labor Government. The construction of the  Tobruk  was announced by Labor. The purchase of 12 Hercules aircraft was announced by Labor. The modification of the F111C aircraft was announced by the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  However, in October 1975 the present Minister for Defence announced that the FI 1 ls would be given an inflight refuelling capacity and stand-off weapon capability; but in three years all that was achieved was the provision for reconnaissance pods. The purchase of the two PC3 Orion aircraft was also announced by the previous Labor Government. 
When the Prime Minister made this statement he neglected to mention a series of unfortunate foul-ups, some of them quite disturbing, that have come to the attention of the public in the last few months. I want to list some of them: There are widespread reports of low morale, especially in the Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. There is an insufficiency of and poor planning in maintenance and equipment development. We have seen the mothballing of an entire squadron of Leopard tanks. Increasing concern has been expressed that, even though there is widespread unemployment and also a strategic need, the Government has not made any serious attempts to improve Australia's defence industry structure- a matter about which  Senator Bishop  spoke.  Mr Fraser  and the Minister for Defence have been attempting to portray themselves as the champions of Australia's defence needs. Yet, instead of taking action in these areas, they have simply tried to cover them up and keep them from the public's attention. 
I also wish to make a few remarks about a subject that was written about in the  Australian  newspaper recently under the heading 'Our US defence staff are missing'. It is perhaps ironic, as part of the inconsistency of the Minister for Defence, that the Government is presently maintaining in the United States of America, what could only be described as a small army of defence officials supposedly responsible for the review of defence purchases and equipment. In all, according to the figures of the Minister for Defence, there are 75 Defence Department officials in Washington- 19 at the equivalent rank of major and 17 at the equivalent rank of lieutenant-colonel. The rest of the 57 officers are civilian personnel. At a time when the Minister for Defence has had a number of overseas tours reviewing possible purchases in Great Britain and Europe, it seems strange that is is necessary to have such a large contingent for this purpose in the United States employed full time. 
I said that this situation was ironic in view of the mothballing of the Leopard tanks and other areas in which expenditure perhaps would better meet the present defence needs of Australia. However, the situation can only be described as ludicrous when it is realised that, while the Minister maintains that only 75 defence officials are stationed in Washington, the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs and officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs maintain that there are 93 personnel there- 70 uniformed officers and 23 civilians. This does not include personnel on temporary postings for specific purposes or on an exchange basis. It was reported in the  Australian  of 5 March 1979 that a Foreign Affairs official commented that the Department's estimate may include officers outside Washington. However, this would still leave five officers unaccounted for. 
Two essential matters are involved in this question: Firstly, how is it that such confusion as to the number of personnel presently stationed in Washington can remain after three months? A number of questions have been placed on the Notice Paper on this subject. Why are two government departments unable to agree on the number of staff working in this area? How could such confusion have arisen in the first place and when will the Senate be given a definite answer on the number of staff actually involved? These are questions that the Parliament has a right to have answered promptly. Secondly, it seems to me that either figure- that is, the 75 which the Defence Department officials assert or the 93 on which the Foreign Affairs Department is equally adamant- is a tremendously large number of staff to be responsible for purchasing equipment when the Government is actually ordering some equipment to remain unused because of expenditure pruning in defence and is failing in a number of important areas such as the development of a defence industrial self-sufficiency. 
It would seem that the Minister and departmental staff are capable of initiating defence equipment expenditure where no full time staff is stationed overseas. So perhaps the staff in Washington could be better deployed in other areas, either in a similar role in other countries or in Australia itself. In any case, the cost of maintaining such a large staff in terms of salaries alone would seem to be prohibitive. The Minister for Defence or the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who represents him in the Senate, should undertake a review of this matter urgently and tell us how many Defence Department staff we have stationed in Washington. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Can we now assume that following the discussions between the Prime Minister and the Premier of New South Wales at the Loan Council meeting no punitive action will now be taken against the New South Wales Government as a result of its decision to grant power workers a  37 1/2  hour week? 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. I think that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. I did not intend to make any comments about the speech made by  Senator Lewis  because I am the last  speaker  in what has been a very long debate. However, he talked about people in Australia who are trying to overthrow the Government by violent revolution. If that is the case we must have a very poor intelligence organisation because I cannot recall the last time anybody was arrested in this country for trying to overthrow the Government by violent revolution. 
I wish to make a number of points concerning the legislation before us. I think the first and most obvious objection is the context in which the legislation has been introduced. This Bill has the most wide-sweeping ramification for civil liberties of any legislation introduced into this Parliament since the previous Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill was introduced by the Menzies Government in 1956. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said in his second reading speech: 
The legislative reforms are so fundamental and wide ranging that a completely new Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill rather than an amendment to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Act 19S6 has been drafted. 
One would think therefore that legislation as important as this, with so many consequences for the quality and type of intelligence that governments must receive and of such widespread consequence for individual rights, would warrant lengthy and considerable public debate. Instead the Government has gone out of its way to limit public debate. Even parliamentary discussion and assessment has been limited to less than one would expect on such an important Bill as this. Although the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced on 27 October 1977 that legislation concerning ASIO would be introduced in order to implement the recommendations of the Hope Royal Commission, little was said about the matter. 
The legislation was drafted in virtual secrecy. Government leaders did not consult with Opposition leaders on the content of the Bill. This is particularly ironic because the legislation will make it legally binding on the Prime Minister to consult with the Leader of the Opposition on future appointments of ASIO directors-general. Yet, there has been absolutely no consultation with the Opposition on the contents of this Bill despite the conciliatory remarks made by the Attorney-General about bipartisanship in this debate. 
I would like to make a few observations about the Government's approach to this legislation in terms of allowing public debate. The Government has introduced amendments to the Customs Act concerning narcotics and the powers of customs officials to intercept telecommunications. This coincides with this ASIO legislation which also contains some reference to narcotics. Surely this has added to public confusion on the matter and presents critics of the legislation with a scattered target to aim at. 
Copies of the Attorney-General's second reading speech were unavailable until minutes before it was delivered. This was wrong, considering the importance of this legislation. Once the speech was delivered it became the news and any comments or criticisms from the Opposition took a back seat. This is not terribly important in itself but honourable senators will realise that there has been limited public airing of the issues concerned in this legislation. Another example to which I would like to refer- this perhaps is only a coincidence- is the fact that at the Australian Government Publishing Service bookshop in Sydney it was impossible to get copies of this Bill. Many honourable senators would be surprised at the number of people who went to the AGPS bookshop in Sydney. Obviously there was tremendous interest and people were trying to get copies of this Bill but in fact they were not available for scrutiny. 
I have had representations from a number of civil rights groups and individual citizens concerned about aspects of the legislation. Many of them feel that the Government is rushing through this legislation without giving time for public scrutiny. There has been no time for concerned organisations to prepare position papers or to raise objections to any particular aspect of the Bill that may concern them. I would not have thought that such matters were very important, nor would I normally raise these objections, but these Bills are so important that the Government should have been prepared to make provision for consultation with the Opposition and also to allow sufficient time for public debate. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner and before I was rudely interrupted, I was talking about the lack of consultation with the Opposition on these Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bills. Although I know that we cannot discuss the statement that has just been put down I point out that it is another example of the lack of consultation that has been occurring between the Government and the Opposition. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  pointed out that the Hope Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security was established by the Whitlam Labor Party Government.  Mr Justice  Hope is to be commended on presenting a comprehensive and detailed report. However, the final decisions about ASIO's structure, its function and powers, are political and Parliament must take the final responsibility. The Government cannot wash its hands of responsibility for this legislation by saying that it is exactly the same, or very nearly the same, as the recommendations that were made by the Royal Commission. The Opposition will not simply pass the legislation because the concept of a royal commission was sponsored by both major parties. The responsibility for legislation is still with this Parliament. That is the reason why the Opposition has sponsored a number of amendments to the Bill in a constructive spirit and in the hope that the amendments will be accepted and that improvements will be made. I must say that I was encouraged by some of the comments that were made by  Senator Lewis  prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner when he said that he thought that there would be some agreement between the Government and ourselves on some of the amendments that had been moved. 
Some of the reforms recommended by  Mr Justice  Hope, including many of those already implemented by the Government, apparently have been successful. For example, the establishment of the Office of National Assessments is a case in point. I think that its intelligence collection and reporting, especially regarding the recent Sino- Vietnamese conflict, is consistently accurate and timely. A number of honourable senators on this side of the Senate, who are members of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence found the reporting from the Office of National Assessments to be very good, to be a no-nonsense type of reporting and better than some of the stuff that we have had in the past. The general administrative improvements in training and recruitment of staff since the appointment of  Mr Justice 
Woodward have also been welcome developments. I believe that the redefinition of the relationship between ASIO, other intelligence services and the Commonwealth police and Customs, will also prove to be beneficial. 
The establishing of a Director-General with more clearly defined statutory responsibilities and powers is also an improvement. However, it stops short of what I believe to be necessary; that is, that the Director-General should be obliged to provide the responsible Minister, on request, with any information that is relevant to his or her portfolio. Under the proposed legislation the final decision as to what information will be disclosed and what will be withheld is to be left to the discretion of the Director-General. 
There are basic reasons why the Minister should have full access to this information automatically rather on the fiat of the DirectorGeneral. Surely it is a basic principle of responsible government that the Minister be accountable to Parliament and, through it, to the people. If the Minister cannot be trusted with the information without its having been vetted by an official, we are in fact denying one of the basic tenets of parliamentary democracy. I am not saying that the Attorney-General should be able to look at all the contents of the files that he might be able to get from the Director-General but the important point is that he must have access to those files and, in fact, must know whether they exist. 
Another important point, about which I am sure most honourable senators have received representations and complaints from constituents, concerns the whole issue of telecommunications interception or telephone tapping. I know a great number of people are concerned about loss of privacy and the development of this Big Brother type of bureaucracy. It is obvious when one looks at the society in which we live today that, inevitably, telephone taps will be undertaken by security organisations. Most of the communication between people today is by telephone. I believe that in certain circumstances ASIO should have these powers but they should be used in emergency situations only. Also, provision should be made whereby ASIO will be accountable. Under this legislation the AttorneyGeneral is responsible for issuing warrants, but in emergency situations the Director-General can issue them. This seems to me to be a very dangerous provision. If the Attorney-General refused to issue a warrant and the DirectorGeneral decided that an emergency existed he could than allow the telephone to be tapped anyway. 
I do not know how many telephone conversations ASIO would intercept, but my guess is that it would certainly be a lot more than need be intercepted. I am also worried that, if these matters tended to become procedural, senior officials could simply tend to sign warrants without first undertaking a serious review. That would concern me greatly. That is one reason why all warrants should be subject to judicial authorisation. That should be so, even though the AttorneyGeneral and the Director-General might act with absolute prudence on every occasion. This section of the Bill could compromise the AttorneyGeneral at the best of times and, at worst, could allow ASIO's powers to be dangerously abused. It is usual in cases involving criminal detection for police to be required to obtain a warrant from a magistrate in order to conduct a search. The same proviso could and should apply to the operations of ASIO. No warrant should be issued for telephone interception other than at the discretion of a court. 
Another point about which I have always been concerned- it is one that I have raised previously in the Parliament- concerns the financial and general accountability of ASIO. Another improvement that has derived from the report of the Hope Commission is that ASIO is to be subject to some external discipline by the intelligence and security committee of Cabinet. However, ASIO receives a considerable appropriation and is virtually immune to the financial scrutiny to which government departments are subject. No Estimates Committees examine ASIO's accounts, but surely some rudimentary estimates of the amount spent by ASIO could be provided for scrutiny. Even if we merely looked at a number of headings, with a rudimentary breakdown of the amounts spent on, for instance, administration, operations or transport, and these were reviewed from year to year, we would at least see whether in a particular section there had been an increase in the amount spent. 
The best way to develop a similar scrutiny in respect of ASIO would be by conducting a confidential joint party review. I believe that  Senator Missen  referred to that and spoke of the situation that exists in the United States. If that is not possible- I am prepared to acknowledge that the Government might not be prepared to agree to it- at the very least ASIO should have to face a complete judicial audit and review, which would then be the subject of a detailed report to the Parliament. 
I have already said that I would prefer the establishment of a joint party committee of review along the lines currently employed in the United 
States. This is because I believe that any review of an intelligence service's expenditure and activities must be comprehensive and should be such as to keep the organisation continually in check. If it is not kept in check, it will be the intelligence community and the public that will be the losers. We have only to look at the example provided by the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States. After revelations were made concerning it there was certainly a lack of public support for it. I understand that this has been followed by a loss of morale in the CIA itself. One has only to look at the standard of United States intelligence on a world-wide basis, and in particular at what has happened in Iran, to become very worried about it. I refer to the fact that the United States was receiving poor reports, or none at all, on what was happening on the oil fields and among the oil workers in Iran. That concerns me greatly. 
It is possible, even probable, that large amounts of ASIO funds have been spent upon essentially wasteful investigations- for example, spying on many of the small groups of university extremists, such as some of the Trotskyist organisations which, despite all of their rhetoric, are harmless in terms of security. How much money has been wasted on this type of investigation? I do not think there has been any need for the sort of monitoring that has taken place of the activities of these small groups in the universities. It has been a waste of ASIO funds. I think it was  Senator Mulvihill  who said earlier that all we seem to get from the fringe groups of the far Left is much rhetoric, many pamphlets and, at the most, perhaps a few broken windows, but that it is the far Right that has been making the bombs. 
Apparently the honourable senator doubts that that is so. Who has been making the bombs? Who were the people who were recently apprehended in New South Wales with plans to blow up Sydney's water supply or the Elizabethean Theatre? They were not some Trotskyist group or fringe group of the Left. I think that the honourable senator would agree that they were organisations of the Right. A judicial audit and review would be a more open way of assessing value for money spent and also of ensuring that ASIO was following its charter. 
Another important aspect of the Bill in its present form is that it acknowledges the right of appeal of persons who have had an adverse security report. However, this section is virtually useless since any person who is adversely affected by a security report will not be able to know exactly what has been reported about him. It will therefore be impossible for him or her to prepare any real defence. Surely this will negate whatever value this reform may have had. In fact, it makes the whole procedure of appeal a farce, reducing it to a ludicrous  Catch-22  situation. It could be said that since one is a security risk already, one cannot be allowed to see evidence that has led to one being considered to be a security risk in the first place. Indeed, it would be funny if it were not for the fact that people's careers, rights to citizenship and even basic human rights are being threatened by this sort of idiocy. It reminds me of the closed courts of totalitarian regimes, which this Government so rightly condemns. Totalitarian regimes of both the Left and the Right justify such courts on the grounds of national security. That is why I would not support such a Bill unless a right of appeal were allowed whereby any person who was accused of being a security threat would have a normal right of appeal during which he or his advocates could hear the claims that were being made against him. 
The most obvious priority for ASIO is counterespionage, but this aspect of its functions will not be assisted unless ASIO is directed to pay greater attention to the activities of foreign intelligence services. I have mentioned on previous occasions my concern about the activities of foreign intelligence agencies in Australia. I mentioned that American Congressmen who had served on intelligence committees had told me of their experiences concerning CIA activities in foreign countries, including the successful infiltration of other intelligence agencies, even those of allies. That certainly could include Australia. Steps must be taken to ensure that such penetration is made as difficult as possible. In that regard, I recall spending some few hours with Congressman Otis Pike in the United States. He was able to tell me of some quite horrific situations that he and his colleagues had been able to uncover in the course of conducting an inquiry into the intelligence services of that country. 
Another important area that ASIO must be concerned with is the activity or potential activity of terrorist organisations. Australia's only experience in recent times with terrorism has been with the Ustashi and Ananda Marga or whoever it was that perpetrated the Hilton Hotel bombing. And was not that a disgraceful situation? Has anybody been arrested over the Hilton Hotel bombing? There has been a great silence on that. One of the things that I raised during a hearing of an Estimates committee was that after that bombing the Government made funds available to shopkeepers or those people who had lost business because of the closing of the Hilton Arcade and a small fund was set up to provide for the education of children of the parents who were killed in an explosion. Of course it was not nearly enough. This is the sort of priority that was set. If it had not been for the Municipal and Shire Council Employees Union, the union that represented those people who were killed and which raised $90,000 through an appeal in Sydney, the families of the people who were the subject of that bombing outrage would be in a much more difficult situation today. 
I have already mentioned that there is reason to believe that there has been wastage and political bias in intelligence gathering- the most obvious example being the continuous allegation of ASIO activity in the trade union movement and the revelation during the Salisbury Royal Commission in South Australia that ASIO had actually provided money and manpower to the South Australian Special Branch to spy on members of the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party, none of whom could by any reasonable standard be considered security risks. A repetition of these sorts of wastage, incompetence or bias cannot be prevented altogether but it can be reduced if there is responsibility to a judicial body for the issue of all warrants, a review of the expenditure and activities of the organisation and an annual reporting to Parliament. This at least provides a method of ongoing criticism by the Parliament even when the Opposition could know only the broad outlines of the activities of ASIO for the year. I will conclude by saying that we of the Opposition recognise the need for an efficient intelligence organisation. However, we are far from happy with the Government's reluctance to encourage public debate and we do not believe that key sections of the legislation before us take the forms of ASIO far enough. I hope that the Government has looked at the amendments that have been moved by the Opposition and will at least be prepared to go along with a majority of them. 
I speak in support of this motion and join with honourable senators in deploring the situation which has arisen. I will not canvass the rights and wrongs of the case but I think it is important that we look at the decision of the High Court of Pakistan which, by a four to three vote, rejected the appeal against the death sentence. Originally, there were nine judges hearing this case. One judge turned 65 during the hearing and was retired. Another judge had a stroke and asked for a one-month adjournment, which was refused. Both judges were rumoured to be leaning towards  Mr Bhutto  during the conduct of the trial. The four majority judges came from the Punjab. Maybe this is a coincidence, but it has already been used to foment regional discontent in Pakistan. Bhutto was described by General Zia as a social democrat. That interpretation might be open to question by a number of us but, importantly, it was used by General Zia as a term of denigration as he promised to lead Pakistan back to a traditional Islamic State. In view of this execution, I believe that elections in Pakistan now scheduled for November will be postponed. The present controllers could not take the risk of Bhutto's party, the Pakistan People's Party, being successful and possibly seeking revenge. Surely this is one of the most worrying things for all of us who believe in parliamentary democracy. It has been said on a number of occasions in this Senate that parliamentary democracy is on the decline throughout the world and that the number of parliamentary democracies declines every year. 
On the Indian subcontinent where only recently parliamentary democracy received one of its greatest victories in years- I refer to Indiaand where an Opposition which was thought to be in a hopeless situation was able to win power through the ballot box this tragic situation occurs. It will lead to instability in the region and a possible reign of repression in Pakistan. It is to be deplored by all of us who believe in parliamentary democracy. 
 I have a simple question to ask of the Attorney-General. If the Transport Workers Union of Australia, as part of industrial action specifically designed to bring pressure on the Government, held up the delivery of, amongst other things, pieces of machinery to the naval dockyard in Sydney, would this amount to a significant interference with the functioning of the Defence Force? Can the Attorney-General tell me whether this action would amount to subversion in the context of this clause? 
I can assure the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the question I asked was not put in a cavalier manner. I realise that he might not want to make what he said would be a kerbside opinion. However, the New South Wales branch of the Transport Workers Union is vitally concerned that industrial action that it has taken in the past could now be classed under this clause as subversion. It is a responsible union and it wants to know the answer to the question that I have posed. If it does not get an answer tonight it will want an answer in the very near future. The industrial action that I talked about which has been taken by the Transport Workers Union in New South Wales in the past has not been classified as subversive and it wants to know whether it will be classified as subversive under this clause. 
I present the following petition from 1 ,059 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees)Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources seen a statement from the  chairman  of a company called Expo of World Wines Pty Ltd in which he said that trading difficulties caused by strained diplomatic relations with South East Asian nations had contributed to the liquidation of his Melbourne company, Expo of World Wines Pty Ltd, and that the company's difficulties had been magnified by the international air fares dispute. Can the Minister confirm or deny the claim? If the statement is correct, will further Australian companies be placed in difficulties while the air fares dispute continues? 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of reports that the Soviet Union has gained access to secret information regarding the operation of American defence installations in Australia? Can the Minister inform the Senate as to the truth of the assertion that the information that the Soviet Union now has concerning the bases renders the bases virtually ineffective? Further, does he believe that this will in any way alter the Government's present long-term attitude regarding the presence ofthe bases? 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Does the Government intend to retire compulsorily certain grades ofTelecom employees at 55 years of age on approximately 36 percent of their salary: if so: 
) what are the reasons for such an action: and 
what arc the grades of employees involved. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In the light of the further increases in home loan interest rates which will cause acute hardship for persons on fixed incomes, will the Government give urgent consideration to introducing a moratorium on home loan repayments where the major income earner of a family unit is unemployed? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that persons insured with private medical benefits funds are finding that, after they have contributed to a fund for lengthy periods, their fund reduces the benefit to 75 per cent payment because those persons have made too many claims? Does the Minister for Health intend to take any action to prevent this practice since it often imposes unfair hardship on elderly sick persons? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware of the provisions in the relevant British legislation which provide for a sufficiently popular sporting event to be declared a broadcast of national importance, thus preventing commercial television stations from monopolising any particular sporting event, for example, the Olympic Games or international cricket, at the expense of the British Broadcasting Corporation? Will the Federal Government consider introducing such changes to Australian legislation in order to protect the competitive position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to sporting events? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health to the widespread belief that many surgical operations performed in Australia are unnecessary, a view strengthened recently by the Doctors Reform Society's call for the introduction of a system of compulsory second opinions and the statement by  Mr Brian  Morgan,  Chairman  of the Manpower Committee of the Royal Australian 
College of Surgeons, to the effect that surgeons can generate more work for their profession and ask whether the Government will consider the introduction of compulsory post-surgical tissue monitoring for all surgical operations, a procedure already practised in a number of countries. 
I refer to a subject that has already been spoken on by my colleagues,  Senator Doug  McClelland and  Senator Reg  Bishop, and that is the statement by  Senator Peter  Rae that TransAustralia Airlines should be sold. In my view, and in the view of the Opposition, a view which I am sure is held by many Government members as well, the sale of TAA to private interests would be a disastrous mistake. TAA is a profitable public enterprise. Its operating profit in the year 1973 was $6.76m, in 1974 $3.7 lm, in 1975 $4.52m, in 1976 $4.88m and in 1977 TAA made $9.5 lm. TAA's annual report for 1978 was tabled in the Senate recently. It showed that the profit was $2. 8m. TAA costs the Government absolutely nothing to maintain, and makes quite a sizable contribution to public revenue. 
Let us go back to the reasons why TAA was established. It was brought into existence to compete against private interests and prevent the undesirable economic and social effects which occur when industry is controlled by a monopoly of private interests. Recently we saw an example of the way in which TAA can serve the public when a private enterprise would not. The recent domestic fare cuts for advance purchase bookings were initiated by TAA and followed by Ansett Airlines of Australia. They were a direct result of pressure from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  This pressure would not be effective if the government link were broken and TAA were sold to private investment. We do not want a situation where two companies like the Ansett group of companies funnel off profits from their airways for investments in ventures like Associated Securities Ltd. The implication in  Senator Rae's  statement that TAA could be sold to the public, meaning small investors is ludicrous. The sort of capital flow necessary to buy an enterprise the size of TAA would inevitably result in single corporation control of TAA, possibly even outright foreign control. The argument that selling TAA would be beneficial to its employees also fails to hold water under examination. The Government could quite easily introduce profit-sharing, especially a system of productivity bonuses, job enrichment programs and worker participation at board level, as well as work council level. All this could be done without selling TAA to private interest. Indeed, many of these things would not be possible if TAA were sold to a private company. 
This Government calls itself a free enterprise government. I think  Senator Rae  would agree with that. I do not believe that at the moment if one looks at the airline policy, both internal and international, one could possibly say that it is a free enterprise government.  Senator Rae  said that the two airlines do not compete. He said the timetables were farcical. I would certainly agree with him in many instances. Perhaps one of the worst examples would be the route from Melbourne and Sydney to the Gold Coast, the particular airline route that services Tweed Heads and Coolangatta. Here we have a tourist airport. The airport itself and the facilities are disgraceful. Because of the timetables, there is often a situation where there are two large Boeing 727 aircraft on the runway at the same time. People, including international tourists, have no facilities at all at the airport. When both airlines leave at 8 o'clock in the evening, that airport is then completely deserted. If anybody wants to leave that tourist area after that time, there are no flights. 
If  Senator Rae  were serious, he would be discussing some other options. One that I wish to speak about briefly would be an amalgamation of Qantas Airways Ltd and TAA and then, following that, the allowing of some deregulation in some areas of Australia. Perhaps then we could have some cheap tourist packages coming into 
Australia. What we have at the moment is a situation where somebody coming to Australia from the West Coast of America pays a fare which is as low as $480. If he arrives in Sydney or Melbourne he then has to pay in excess of $400 to go to one of the other capital cities. I think the fare to Perth from Sydney at the moment is $440. So it costs him as much to visit another place in Australia as it does to travel all the way from the west coast of the United States. If there were an amalgamation of Qantas and TAA, perhaps those people who come into Australia not only from the United States but also from Europe would be able to see Central Australia, the Great Barrier Reef, Tasmania and Western Australia for a special fare which would be worked out with the international airline company- in this case Qantas. 
Perhaps then we would not have the farcical situation we have at the moment whereby a firstclass passenger arrives in Australia- obviously as he has travelled here first class he has a lot of money to spend as a tourist in Australia- gets ofl" his international first-class flight and goes on to an internal first-class flight in Australia and immediately is asked whether he would like to purchase a drink. It costs, say, $2 for the average drink. If he does not feel like an alcoholic drink and says: 'I wouldn't mind a glass of soda water', he is then asked as a first class passenger to pay 20c for that drink on an internal first class flight in Australia. If it could be proved- I am sure it could be proved on some routes- that there should be a subsidy for rural areas, perhaps it should be a direct subsidy and not the sort of hidden subsidy that we have at the moment under which people in particular areas are paying higher fares. Perhaps then we would be able to deregulate the east coast of Australia. 1 am deliberately leaving Perth out of this because I know that there are particular problems with Perth. 
If we deregulated the east coast of Australia we could then compare our situation with the situation which exists on the west coast of the United States at the moment. For example, if a person is in California and wishes to fly on an airline from San Francisco to San Diego, a distance of approximately 700 miles, the fares start at as low as $28 one way. If a person wanted to fly from San Francisco to Los Angeles, approximately 500 miles- the distance between Sydney and Melbourne- the fares start at $32. 1 recently took advantage of one of those fares. Under that arrangement, one has a firm booking on a regular flight; one does not have to take part in a shuttle. Those are the sorts of prices which the airlines in the United States have been able to get down to for those distances. 
Airlines are already in existence in Australia which would like to take advantage of a situation in which there was a deregulation of the particular run about which I have been talking. For example, we have East- West Airlines Ltd, which is a very efficient airline based in Tamworth in New South Wales. It is a good example of a decentralised industry. All its service and maintenance work is done in a country town. I am sure that if it were allowed to compete on the run between Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and the Gold Coast and then further up the north Queensland coast it would be very keen to do so. Already it is competing against the major airlines, TAA and Ansett, on the Sydney to Alice Springs run and the Sydney to Hobart run by using- it was forced to use- Fokker Friendships, F27s, small prop-jet planes. That airline was able to reduce fares on the run between Sydney and Alice Springs. Then, what happened? TAA and Ansett got together, looked at the timetable structure and went into what I thought was quite a cynical manoeuvre to squeeze East- West Airlines out of that run. Of course, East- West, on a run such as that and on the run to Hobart, needs jet aircraft. But what did this Government say? It said: ' By regulation, you can 't have it '. 
I remind honourable senators of the scandalous situation which arose here the other day with respect to IPEC Air Cargo. I am no great supporter of Gordon Barton and his enterprises. But there we had a situation in which the Government said: 'Yes, you can compete. You can use DC3 aircraft which are 40 years old, but you can't use any modern aircraft which you might have already'. It is like putting somebody into a cricket team and saying: 'You can play, but when it comes to your time to bat you can only use a baseball bat'. 
Yes; or else he is told that he can use no bat at all. Our international airlines policy is in a shambles at the moment. As I said earlier, we have a government, which calls itself a free enterprise government, regulating international flights in and out of Australia at the moment. We have people waiting for seats to go to Europe. They cannot book on an aircraft. Yet our regulations are forcing aircraft to leave Sydney with empty seats. JAT Yugoslavia Airlines, the Yugoslav national airline, was flying two 707 aircraft into Sydney a week. I think that those aircraft carried about 177 people each. That airline bought new equipment. It bought 
American equipment- DC10 aircraft specifically to operate between Belgrade and New York and Belgrade and Sydney. When the airline came to the Australian Government and asked for permission to fly two DC 10s a week into Australia they were told: 'No, that represents an increased seat capacity. You can fly in only one DC10 a week'. That means that with a full load on the plane that airline has lost between 70 and 80 seats a week. I do not know how anybody could call that sort of action in favour of free enterprise. 
The Dutch airline KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has one 747 service out of Sydney a week. It was allowed to have 190 seats sold, which meant that 1 77-odd or 1 80 seats were empty at a time when, as I said, people were waiting to fly to Europe. That airline complained and the Government has seen fit now to increase the number of seats that the airline can sell. But the point is still the same: KLM operates out of Sydney once a week with empty seats at a time when people want to get to Europe, particularly in the two aircraft about which I have talked. Recently I was talking to the NSW Manager of JAT and I asked him: 'Why don't you take more advantage of the cheap airfares you have to Yugoslavia at the moment? Why aren't you pushing the tourist business harder?' He said: 'Over 90 per cent of our trade, even though the statistics show that the passengers are Australian citizens, in fact is migrant trade. They are people who came here from Yugoslavia, who have become Australian citizens and who are now going back to Yugoslavia for a period and then returning to Australia. There are no vacant seats at all to encourage tourism '. 
In the Association of South East Asian Nations area, we have just seen another disastrous example of our foreign policy as it concerns airlines. We tried to stand over the ASEAN countries. This Government felt that it would be able quite easily to play one country off against another and that then the Government would be able to take advantage of the fact that one of the other airlines was prepared to break the agreement or to accept fares which were put forward by this Government. Of course, as a result of what happened Australia's foreign policy with respect to the ASEAN countries is in tatters at the moment because those countries adopted a combined front; they did not crack in the negotiations. I do not think that it will be only airlines of the ASEAN countries which in future will present a united front to Australia. I think that that will be so on a whole range of issues, especially trade issues. The ASEAN countries will win the airlines fight because Australians are demanding the cheaper fares. 
What this Government did not realise was that a whole new range of people in Australia wish to fly internationally. The only international trip that some people in this country have ever made has been to the ASEAN countries. All of a sudden those people found that for the same price they were able to go to the United States and to Europe. Of course, what the industry has now found out is that a whole range of other people in Australia in fact have never been overseas and have only taken their holidays within Australia but they now find that they can afford a holiday to one of the ASEAN countries. As the airlines in those countries put out their publicity and state that they are prepared to drop their fares, in some instances to as low as $350 return, people in Australia will demand to be allowed to take advantage of those fares. 
Another area in which our airlines policy came in for a great deal of criticism- and I believe that our foreign policy has suffered as a result- was in the South Pacific. Last year I went to the South Pacific Conference in Noumea. The Australian airline policy was severely criticised. I shall quote from the report that I wrote to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when 1 came back from the conference. At the Conference, a resolution critical of Australian airlines was put up. Part of it read: 
. that the metropolitan governments concerned be and they arc hereby respectfully requested to negotiate and resolve their respective flag carriers' differences, keeping in mind the very considerable interests of the Island states and territories of the Pacific. 
I went on in my report to state: 
Indeed, the criticism in the preamble mentioned only United States airlines. 
A referral caused delays to proceedings and by contrast to the criticism of Australia, the New Zealand delegation gained great credit by making decisions on the spot to support the resolution. 
While it is not unusual for one of the Metropolitan Powers to bc singled out for criticism at these conferences it appeared that on this occasion criticism was to bc directed towards the United States- 
It was directed, less specifically, to Pan American Airways. My report continued: 
By the vacillating attitudes adopted by the Australian delegation this was diverted to Australia as is evidenced by the damning statement by one delegation leader . . . 
That delegation leader said the following day: 
How much longer are we, the island countries, to allow ourselves to bc treated in this insulting and paternalistic way by some of our partners? 
That statement received support from other delegations. My report continued: 
The end result was considerable damage to the image of Australia in the South Pacific despite the increases in aid programs sponsored and financed by Australia, which importantly in private discussions remained a subject of great appreciation by individual delegates. 
What was the reason for the anger of these delegates at this conference? It was that Australia was opposing the entry into this country of Continental Airlines Inc. This airline already flies into Micronesia and American Samoa. It is now flying into Fiji and New Zealand. It is filling a gap that was left by Pan Am and Qantas Airways Ltd. Those two airlines, because of the size of their aircraft, increasingly are overflying the smaller countries of the South Pacific. We should have seen the damage that our airline policy was doing to our foreign policy. It was quite obvious, after spending a couple of days at this conference- I am no expert on this subject- and speaking to other delegates who agreed with me, that the South Pacific island states wished Continental to fly into their area. They felt that Australia was hurting their economies by keeping Continental out. 
No, it is Continental that is now coming to Australia. We tried to keep it out for a great length of time, when I am sure most Australians had no idea that the airline was being heavily supported by the smaller states of the South Pacific to which it now flies from Hawaii. 
I am aware of the problems of Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. I know what it costs these airlines to keep their aircraft on the ground. I know the problems that they have with curfews and distances. I think that if there were a merger between Qantas and TAA we would be able to generate travel and traffic into the South Pacific. It appears that Qantas now has a policy of operating a full fleet of 747 aircraft and this is leaving a gap. The South Pacific area has a very high fare structure. The governments of the South Pacific, whether we like it or not, are trying to encourage tourism. As I said, Continental is already trying to fill some of that need. If TAA were amalgamated with Qantas we would be able to fill this need with TAA aircraft. They would be able to use the runways that are already there. More importantly, the two airlines would be able to utilise their own equipment and they would be able to bring cheaper fares into the region for Australians and also for people who are already in the region and who want to come into Australia. 
-No, not at all. What happened in recent years, before new sophisticated equipment was introduced, was that our airlines stopped at a number of places and acted as a vital link throughout the South Pacific. That, in fact, is not the case any longer. Unfortunately, South Pacific Air, which operates out of Fiji and in which Qantas already has a great deal of money and shares, has not acted as a regional air carrier. It should. The concept was good. But at the moment the smaller island states all want to have their own national airline. Whilst other senators and I might think that is wrong, we cannot tell them that they should not have their own national airline. 
If  Senator Rae  is right, the sale of TAA would be a disgraceful political exercise. The sale of a healthy, profitable and functional government enterprise in exchange for what? I do not know. Maybe it would be in exchange for a cosmetic job on the Budget. I believe that it would be a cynical manoeuvre and in the long term would achieve no improvement in the financial position of the Government. It would lead to a situation where two large private firms would dominate Australia's domestic airline system, with no possibility of public accountability or influence on prices by the Minister. The sale of TAA would benefit only a handful of the larger shareholders in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the present Government possibly would be able to seek some temporary ways of covering up its Budget deficit. It would not benefit the employees in the domestic airline industry or the consumer or the general public. The vast majority of Australians would be out of pocket and the possibility of an efficient domestic airline service for internal passage and of potential growth in the tourist industry would be lost indefinitely. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
Has the Soviet Union gained access to secret information regarding the operation of American defence installations in Australia; if so: (a) does the information which the Soviet Union now holds render the bases virtually ineffective; and (b) will this alter in any way the Government's present longterm attitude to the presence of the bases. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that Australia has voted against an International Civil Aviation Organisation motion that would have allowed the Australian VIP Boeing 707 aircraft to use any airport in the world until at least 1988? Is it also a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force VIP Boeings will become too noisy for civil airfields in the United States of America from 1 January 1985 and that after 1985 they would not be allowed to operate in Australia either if they were not RAAF registered and thus not subject to civil aviation regulations? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government will undertake to install quieter engines at a cost of approximately $10m, or will the residents of Sydney affected by aircraft noise from Mascot be subject to the worst aircraft noise in the Western world whenever the VIP 707s use the Sydney ( Kingsford-Smith ) Airport? 
I wish to raise an item under Divisions 230 to 234 in the Department of Defence. In Senate Estimates Committee F I asked Air ViceMarshal Cornish the precise cost of the two Boeing VIP 707s. I was told that the fly-away cost was $5m each. When I asked where I could find the cost of modernisation and the cost of refitting, Air Vice-Marshal Cornish stated:   . . it is not actually stated in the appropriations. The Government approved a total expenditure of $l4.575m for the acquisition of these aircraft. That covers the actual purchase of the aircraft for $ 10m. Some avionics work was carried out at a cost of about $300,000. modification of the aircraft and also a major overhaul at a cost of $2m, spares and ground support equipment for about $ 1.24m, total training of$3l5,000. 

 Senator Gietzelt went on to ask whether it would not have been possible for the Committee to be given this sort of information and why it should not have been in a general item.  Senator Guilfoyle  replied: 
I think that the information  Senator Gietzelt  is seeking will be in the next year's Estimates. This $10.20 1 m is the expenditure in this year. 
I then put some questions concerning the aircraft noise, and I asked: 
I have been told that from next year in the United States there will be stringent noise abatement provisions required for Boeing 707 aircraft which operate in the United States. Have we taken this into account in any of the breakups? 
Air Vice-Marshal Cornish replied, and I think this is very interesting: 
No, it has not been taken into account. At the present time, the Boeing 707 aircraft complies with all international and Australian noise regulations. There will bc changes to these regulations and the Boeing 707 will not comply with the requirements of the new regulations. Of course, that is for civil aircraft. In Australia, the Department of Transport will require partial compliance by 1981 and full compliance by 1 985. Royal Australian Air Force aircraft will be military aircraft. There is no requirement for them to comply with the civil noise regulations and currently there are no plans to proceed with any noise suppression modifications to the engines. 
I then went on to ask Air Vice Marshal Cornish how these aeroplanes would operate in the United States. He said: 
There will not be any restrictions on military aircraft in the United States. Similar aircraft are operated by the United States military, lt will not apply to them. 
The  Chairman, Senator Thomas,  asked him a question about how many Boeing 707 aircraft will be operating out of Australia, and he was told that there would be only two. Those aircraft are on lease to Air Niugini and probably will be phased out before the regulations come into effect in 1985. This led me to ask a question without notice in the Senate dealing with the matter of noise from these VIP aircraft. I asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  who represents the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon):  ls it a fact that Australia has voted against an International Civil Aviation Organisation motion that would have allowed the Australian VIP Boeing 707 aircraft to use any airport in the world until at least 1988? Is it also a fact that the Royal Air Force VIP Boeings will become too noisy for civil airfields in the United States of America from I January 1 985 and that after 1 985 they would not be allowed to operate in Australia either if they were not RAAF registered and thus not subject to civil aviation regulations? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government will undertake to install quieter engines at a cost of approximately $1Om, or will the residents of Sydney affected by aircraft noise from Mascot be subject to the worst aircraft noise in the Western world whenever the VIP 707s use the Sydney ( Kingsford-Smith ) Airport? 
The people who live near Botany Bay and near the Kingsford-Smith International Airport- the constituents of the electorates of Barton, St George, Grayndler, Sydney and KingsfordSmith are demanding to know whether the aircraft will be modified to prevent the excessive noise levels that will not be tolerated in the United States or anywhere else in the Western world after 1985. Earlier tonight  Senator Townley  asked some questions about the cost of the VIP fleet. He did not get answers at the time. I have looked at the  Hansard  reports of the estimates committees and I might be able to help him. I asked Air Vice Marshal Cornish: 
Did we make any payments to Qantas for any of that training? 
Air Vice Marshal Cornish replied: 
The $20 1 ,000 here is for the training of RAAF personnel at Qantas and completed up to 3 1 March of this year. 
I think  Senator Townley  also asked where the aircraft were to be repaired, serviced and maintained, and who would do this- whether it would be the Air Force or Qantas. The  Chairman, Senator Thomas,  asked: 
My concern is the cost of major repairs. I take it that normal servicing will be carried out in Australia as it is now with overseas aircraft. 
The  Chairman  did not receive a very successful answer, and three times he pushed the question of who was to do it. In the end, we obtained the following answer: 
In many ways Qantas operated a large number of these aircraft. It has a great repository of expertise. In fact, it has a very large support area for these aircraft. Qantas will continue to hold that, or else eventually the RAAF might take over. 
I assume from those questions that the answer to  Senator Townley  's question would be that the maintenance at the moment will be carried out by Qantas. 
I have one brief query on Divisions 480 to 484, of the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I raise the matter because this afternoon I read a telex which stated: 
Melbourne 30 May . . . The differences between the Australian Cricket Board . . . and media magnate Kerry Packer's world series cricket organisation ended here this afternoon with the release of the terms of settlement of their two-year old feud. 
ACB  chairman Bob Parish announced at a news conference that Publishing and Broadcasting Sports Pty Ltd. a Kerry Packer company, had been granted exclusive rights for a ten-year term to promote cricket organised by the ACB 

 Mr Parish said that television rights for the first three years of the agreement had been granted to  Mr Packer's  Channel Nine network which for the past two years has televised world series cricket. 
The telex went on to spell out the other details of the deal. I asked a question when we were dealing with the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Arising out of that in this chamber I asked the relevant Minister: 
Is the Minister aware of the provisions in the relevant British legislation which provide for a sufficiently popular sporting event to be declared a broadcast of national importance, thus preventing commercial television stations from monopolising any particular sporting event, for example, the Olympic Games or international cricket, at the expense of the British Broadcasting Corporation. 
My question went on: 
Will the Federal Government consider introducing such changes to Australian legislation in order to protect the competitive position of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in relation to sporting events. 

 Senator Chaney said that he knew of the legislation. Of course, there were some differences between the situation in Australia and the situation in Great Britain. But he said that he would bring the matter to the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  I am still waiting for a reply to that question. I think the situation is now extremely urgent. It is made quite clear that people in Western Australia, in north Queensland and in a lot of the far western areas of New South Wales will not be able to see the test cricket when it is broadcast because, as the News Release points out, the exclusive rights for a three year period have been granted to  Mr Packer's  Channel Nine. I think the Government should do something about this situation as a matter of urgency. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for 
National Development. Is it a fact that agreement was reached between the Wagga Wagga City Council, the Cootamundra Shire Council, the Australian Gas Light Corporation and the National Pipeline Authority for the development of a natural gas pipeline to be constructed to serve the cities of Wagga Wagga, Cootamundra and Young in New South Wales? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the National Pipeline Authority will not now be granted the funds to go ahead with that project? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs by reminding him that superannuation funds belonging to employees of the Bank of Adelaide were used to bolster the ailing Finance Corporation of Australia by directors who held directorships in FCA, the Bank of Adelaide and the superannuation fund. I ask the Minister: What can be done to ensure that employees' superannuation funds are not appropriated and endangered in this way? Further, will the Government consider encouraging- by legislation if necessaryemployee representation, including relevant trade union representation, on bodies entrusted with employees ' superannuation funds? 
My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs or the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the campaign being conducted by the Union of Christmas Island Workers to bring the wage levels of non-Australian workers working in the Australian Territory of Christmas Island to levels equal to those payable under equivalent Australian awards. In view of the obvious racial discrimination involved in the low wages currently being paid to the non-European employees of the British Phosphate Commission on Christmas Island, will the Minister recommend that the Federal Government become a party to the pending arbitration case involving these employees to ensure that they enjoy wage justice? Further, has the Minister or Officers of his Department discussed this matter with the Department of Foreign Affairs in view of the implications of the case for Australia's reputation in the field of human rights, and particularly in view of our relations with member nations of the Association of South East Asian Nations? 
We are debating a Bill for an Act relating to the provision of certain equipment for Qantas Airways Ltd. Before I refer to the Bill, I must point out that the last two speakers have touched on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, albeit briefly. To be fair to  Senator Gietzelt,  I think he was making the point, despite the opposition, that that Bill was debated in this place for approximately 3 weeks and no amendments were accepted. It went to the House of Representatives and today it was debated. Regardless of the comments, I think that was the point that  Senator Gietzelt  was trying to make. 
I think it is a very opportune time to be debating this Bill. Air safety is a very topical issue, especially in light of the DC 10 crash in Chicago and the subsequent grounding of DC 10 aircraft throughout the United States of America. I would hope that the Australian Government would be in a position very shortly to make a statement about what is happening to DC 10 aircraft which are flying into Australia. I would like the Government to make a statement as to whether the inspections that have now been recommended in the United States are being carried out in this country, or whether they are being carried out in the country of origin of the carrier that flies into Australia. 
Qantas now is rated as the world 's safest airline. In 1974 a set of statistics was issued which established that Transportes Aereos Portugueses, the Portuguese national carrier, was the safest in the world. I believe a new set of statistics shows that Qantas is now the safest airline in the world. It has had no fatal accident in a period extending over 30 years. It is one of a very select group which has had no fatal accidents in the last decade, let alone the last 30 years. I think there is a very good reason for this. It is that Qantas has placed safety above all other factors. If one looks at the matter historically, one further factor is that Qantas has purchased correctly. It did not purchase the Comet aircraft, although at the time there was tremendous pressure from the British Government and British aviation interests for it to do so. More recently, it did not purchase the DC 10s. 
Qantas has maintained a highly competitive economic position. In 10 years, the productivity of Qantas employees rose by 150 per cent. As  Senator Collard  said, Qantas employs 13,000 people throughout the world, 1 1,000 of them in Australia. Many ill-informed attacks have been made on the wage rates and conditions that the employees of Qantas enjoy in this country. A number of Government spokesmen have compared the wage rates and the conditions that Qantas employees enjoy with the conditions of some of the Asian, Middle East and European carriers. They have said that Qantas should make more money but the problem is that its salaries, wages and conditions are too high. I would not complain if the wages and conditions that Qantas employees enjoy were the very best in the world. As far as I am concerned, whilst our safety standards remain the best in the world, our wages and conditions of employment should remain at least amongst the very best in the world. 
I want to deal briefly with the question of safety. In doing so I go back to an article which appeared in the magazine  Flight International  in October 1974. It was written by a spokesman for the airline industry. The article reads: 
Australia has been described as a 'police state' as a result of the severity of its air-safety regulations and enforcement. Nevertheless it is one of the safest air-transport nations and the national flag carrier Qantas has not had a fatal accident in the last 28 years. Captain Ron Gillman recently visited Australia to discuss air safety with Qantas. 
Captain Gillman wrote the article, which went on to say: 
An airline which has operated for 28 years without a fatal accident has beaten the law of averages by such a wide margin that it cannot be a matter of chance; there must be sound reason or reasons. 
Qantas has committed itself to a policy of safety above every other factor, including cost. Some other international carriers do not observe that principle and pay dearly for it. One airline which operates into Australia tried at one time to cut costs by reducing maintenance expenses. It has taken years for that airline to recover from the terrible circumstances which resulted from that decision. The article in the magazine  Flight International  went on to say: 
In airlines where the primary question is 'can it be effective?' flight-operations managers and those concerned with safety find it hard to justify expenditure on training and equipment. This is particularly true when there is a lack of sympathy or understanding at director level. I once heard an executive say that his airline could afford to have one fatal accident every seven years. Although this may have been statistically accurate, the idea is morally abhorrent and an attitude such as this must militate against any improvement in safety standards. 
In the light of that comment, I think it is pertinent to quote an extract from another article in that magazine. The article which was entitled Safety is no accident', states:   the fine record that Qantas enjoys is attributable to a management which is not prepared to narrow safety margins in the cause of economic expedience, an engineering division that follows this example, an operations branch with the right policies, and a training organisation with the expertise and integrity  . . 
If anything, these words are more relevant in 1979 than they were when they were written and printed in 1974. As  Senator Gietzelt  said, it is a pity that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has failed to explain fully the financial implications of the purchase of these aircraft. What effect will the conversion to 455 seats for the Boeing 747 aircraft have on Qantas 's profits? Also, what effect will it have on the facilities for the people who travel on the aircraft? What effect will the combi-configuration Boeing 747 aircraft have on freight and passenger profits and charges? 
I have said some nice things about Qantas. I would like now to make some comments about what I consider to be the lack of foresight that the company has shown. It is quite obvious that it did not anticipate the increased traffic loads that have been caused by the lower fares. It did not realise that it was catering not for an elite but for a new class of traveller. In this era of air transport there were hundreds of thousands of Australians who traditionally took their holidays in the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. They went to Singapore, Jakarta or Malaysia for their holidays. With the introduction of the new cheap air fares these people found that they were able to go to Europe or to the United States. 
What the management of Qantas apparently did not realise is that there was a whole range of people who had never taken a holiday outside this country, who had never taken advantage of international air transport. Hundreds of thousands of people were prepared then to go to those countries to which cheaper air fares were offered for the first time. Of course, we have learnt a very important lesson in our negotiations with ASEAN. The ASEAN countries are prepared now to join together to negotiate against Australia in respect of air fares and I think that in the future they will be negotiating as a group on a whole range of other issues. Although these air fares to the ASEAN countries have not been determined, I am sure that while they remain united on this issue they will be able to wring concessions from this Government and to get cheaper fares. An example of what I have been talking about is the fact that Qantas is now talking about charter operations to cope with the extra traffic to Europe. 
Another example of the lack of foresight has been the South African route. I have here figures which show that in 1 976 both South African Airways and Qantas were carrying a combined total of 26,000 people on this route. By 1978, when Qantas had withdrawn from the route to South Africa, South African Airways alone was carrying in excess of 28,000 passengers per year on the route. Recently when inquiries were made of South African Airways it was found not only that it was carrying this increased capacity but also that its flights were booked out for at least the next six months and it was impossible to get on a flight to South Africa until after Christmas. A table that I have shows the passenger traffic between Australia and South Africa from 1 964 to 1978. It shows the figures when Qantas suspended its services in September 1977. I seek permission to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906064_71_1.jpg"></graphic>

When one discusses this situation with Qantas it is said that one of the main reasons that we pulled out of the South African run was that there was an industrial dispute. As a member of the Sub-committee on Southern Africa of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I have been very interested in this matter. I have talked to the Airline Pilots Association, which has assured me that this is not the situation. This leads me to say that if the decision was political- I am not arguing that it might have been a political decision to cease those services to South Africa- it is about time that the Government said so. Certainly the decision cannot be justified when one looks at the traffic being carried there at the moment. Another service which Qantas ceased was its flight to Mexico City. It is quite obvious that Mexico will become very important politically for Australia. More importantly, if the cheaper air fares were operating to Mexico, I am sure that Qantas would be able to recommence its service. There would not be any argument with that. The big problem is that at the moment it does not have the aircraft to fly this extra route to Mexico City. 
Quite obviously a vacuum has been created in the South Pacific. That vacuum is being filled by Continental Airlines at the moment. The vacuum exists because Qantas does not have all the suitable aircraft that are required. The island states are very critical of Australia. In a debate here only recently I mentioned their attitude to us as expressed at the South Pacific conference which was held last year in Noumea. They were critical of the operations of the Australian airlines. It seemed that the Government did not realise that we were insulting these small countries of the South Pacific because we had not thought out a long term travel arrangement into those countries. We did not realise also that the smaller island states of the South Pacific were encouraging Continental to fly into the area because they had been the victims of the fact that Qantas and specifically Pan Am had tended to over-fly the area completely; and those places in that region which historically used to be stops have now ceased to be stops. 
There have been many rumours about a merger of Trans- Australia Airlines and Qantas. I spoke about it here recently when I supported it. In England the British Overseas Airways Corporation and British European Airways have merged into British Airways. Only recently in New Zealand, Air New Zealand merged with the National Airlines Corporation. I believe that if TAA and Qantas merged it could lead, amongst other things, to cheap tourist packages into Australia, combined with cheap internal fares for those people coming here on package tours organised internationally. People would be able to go to Perth, to the Great Barrier Reef, to Tasmania, to Alice Springs and to many other places in Australia where it is now too expensive for them to fly. We have the ludicrous situation that somebody could pay as little as $480 to fly from the West Coast of the United States to Sydney on a package tour. But if he wanted to go to Perth he would have to pay $440 for an economy ticket. He would have to pay almost exactly the same price for an internal trip in Australia. We have to do something about that. If there were a merger TAA's equipment could be fully utilised and, more importantly, we would be able to generate traffic into the South Pacific and improve Australia 's image there. 

 Senator Gietzelt spoke about the discrimination which has become apparent in the negotiations on cheap air fares. I certainly support him, especially when one considers the situation which exists with Italy. To the present time that country has provided us with over 700,000 migrants. Apart from Great Britain, it is perhaps the country which has provided the most migrants who have come here and become naturalised Australians. Yet at the moment we are still negotiating; we still do not have cheap air fares to and from that country and the people of Italian origin are still being discriminated against. 
There is another important area for which something has to be done with cheap air fares, namely, the Middle East. I know that for a long time pressure has been placed on Qantas for flights to go into Tel Aviv. But of course that situation does not involve only Tel Aviv now because the whole of the Middle East area is providing an increasing number of migrants who are coming to Australia and making their homes here. A number of migrants want to go back home to Lebanon, Damascus and other places in the Middle East. I hope that on this particular issue the Government will act as quickly as possible. 
Qantas is a successful enterprise. It has the highest safety standards in the world. It requires bold and imaginative management to cope with the challenges created by the new air fares. That management must realise that hundreds of thousands of Australians wish to take advantage of those fares in travelling to an ever-increasing number of overseas destinations. I believe that the Bill before us should authorise the purchase of not only the two additional 747 aircraft but also many more aircraft to fulfil the requirements about which I have been speaking tonight. 
-I wish to speak briefly to this Bill. It was my intention to raise some issues about clause 15 during the Committee stage but for some personal reasons I have to make my comments now. I was surprised at some of the remarks made by  Senator Knight.  After listening to him speak this afternoon, I wondered why industrial action was taken at all. To listen to  Senator Knight  one would think that everything is all right for the employees. I ask  Senator Knight  to state why he thinks these people went out on strike. 
If one looks at the historicsituation and considers the fact that these people have never been on strike in over 60 years, I think one must agree that for in excess of 4,000 people to go out on strike was a very good effort. 
I do not know what the percentage was. I repeat that it was the first strike to take place in this section of the community for 65 years. I think it was remarkable effort to get 4,000 people to go out considering that many of them will be discriminated against for their actions. 
I will speak about that in a minute. There is still discontent in the Public Service. This morning I received a telephone call from people in Wollongong who told me that a stop work meeting was being held there today. They would not hold a stop work meeting if they did not think anything was wrong, if they did not think they were threatened or if they were not worried. 
Despite the claims by  Senator Walters  and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that the appeals provisions in the legislation are adequate, let us look at the make-up of the appeals tribunal. The  Chairman  is to be appointed by the Government. That is one against the employee. One is to be appointed from the management of the department- that is, a representative of the body who decided to sack the employee in the first place- and one is to come from a nominated employee organisation. That is a stacked deck. It is two to one against the employee before he starts. Public servants cannot appeal on the grounds that their jobs should not be eliminated. They must make out their case in such a fashion that one of their colleagues will face the sack instead of themselves. In other words, this provision turns government employees against one another. It is true that both State and Federal public servants are continuously appealing against promotions- that has been the case for many years- but these provisions for appeal against sacking add a whole new element of undesirable competition whereby in order to save their careers and the incomes of their families, public servants will be trying to 'put-in' their work mates. Is that the sort of thing that we want? 
These provisions will turn one employee against another and in certain areas will create an air of continuous suspicion and make it difficult to maintain any kind of co-operative spirit in an office situation. 
Let us take the case of 20 employees in a section who are to be sacked under this legislation. They cannot take a collective action. Even if they could they would have to prove that another 20 people deserve the sack more than they. The grounds for appeal have nothing to do with the validity of the task performed, and in practice would create an intolerable situation of continuous ' back-biting ' and insecurity in sectors of public employment. It goes without saying that this would decrease efficiency of any sector affected. Another matter that is of concern to me is the potential for victimisation of honorary trade union officials. Already I have heard of a number of cases of union activists being discriminated against or given unfair treatment by management in terms of promotion simply because they were doing their job as union delegates in the interests of their work colleagues. In general, these cases have not been severe but they are, of course, always difficult to establish. However, the potential for getting rid of unwanted union activists by management is there if this legislation is passed unamended. 
I have had instances of that drawn to my attention. I used to work in the white collar section of a municipal employees union. One of the union's big problems, especially in sections where there were a lot of women- exactly the same sort of problem exists in the Public Service- was to get people to act as honorary trade union officials. Time and time again I would get someone who worked in a library, a tourist bureau or in the general office capacity of a council to act as an honorary union official. However, when the time came for promotions or an examination of whether these people should be regarded, it was amazing how many of the people who had taken on an honorary union position found that they were discriminated against. 
That is right. But I am not worried just about union officials. At a more general level, anyone who is creative or innovative in his job but who is considered a potential rival or simply someone who may rock the boat by producing original ideas or approaches to his work may be singled out for treatment by senior management. There is, of course, the perennial problem of the potential for personal discrimination on the grounds of religion or race or simply a personality conflict where a more senior officer does not like a particular employee. 
The Bill as it stands will reduce the career orientation of Commonwealth employment. If we are honest we will admit to ourselves that many jobs in the Public Service are boring and repetitive. Some people remain in these types of jobs for the greater part of their careers. Others gain promotion to more interesting areas or more interesting levels of Commonwealth employment. In spite of these drawbacks, many talented people are attracted to the Public Service because of the security involved in the work, because of some of the benefits available and because there are areas in the Public Service where their personal interests or talents can be utilised for the good of the community. Historically, many of these people could have earned more money in private employment but they have not moved to private employment because of the security involved and the opportunity to use their particular talents and to offer community service do not always exist in the private sector. If the provisions for management-initiated retirement are used at all, never mind how frequently, neither of these attractions will remain for the brighter people attracted to the Public Service. 
This will lead to less efficiency and to a less imaginative and creative Public Service. 
This Bill is a bad piece of legislation. It is bad because it is sufficiently ambiguous to allow the victimisation of individual public servants on political, industrial or even personal grounds. To this end it will decrease the potential for job satisfaction within the Public Service and will lead to a less creative, less innovative Public Service. It is foolish because it will further decrease the efficiency of the Public Service and add to the present diseconomies that result from staff ceilings. It is dishonest because along with desirable features- that is, the provision for voluntary retirement at 55- the Bill contains clauses which allow for the wholesale sacking of public servants. It is hypocritical because it directly contradicts the Government's stated policy on industrial relations in general and on employee participation in particular. Most importantly of all, this Bill compounds the mess that the Government has made of public administration and the economy by its over-emphasis on staff ceilings and its obsession with reducing the size of the public sector for its own sake. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, or to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, and concerns the Olympic Games. Nobody has been able to tell me which Minister should answer this question. Has the Minister seen a statement by the Premier of New South Wales that it would cost approximately $2,000m for Sydney to stage the 1988 Olympic Games and that the Federal Government had not indicated what financial support, if any, could be expected? If these costs are correct it would, therefore, be impossible for any Australian city to stage the Olympics in Australia's bi-centenary year without substantial support from the Federal Government. Will the Government consider making a detailed statement on this matter as soon as possible? 
I wish to take advantage of the first reading of the Wine Grapes Levy Bill to make a few brief comments about penalty rates. I was quite staggered to hear a few minutes ago the contribution made by  Senator Sheil  when he spoke about southern Africa. I must say that  Senator Sheil  is always consistent when he talks about Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and South Africa. I know that he believes what he says, but I think he is tragically wrong. If he looked at the situation that occurred in the election that took place recently in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia he would find that 4 per cent of the white minority in that country had 28 per cent of the votes in the lower House. The role of the Senate is not being talked about at all at the moment, but one-third of the people who were elected to the Senate are from the white minority and one-third are from the ranks of the tribal chiefs. If one looks at the statements of the tribal chiefs and their role in ZimbabweRhodesia, they often turn out to be more conservative than the whites. 

 Senator Sheil was putting a case for the instant recognition of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and a lifting of the restrictions that apply. Of course, if that were to happen there would be an immediate campaign by all the black countries in Africa. Moderate countries such as Nigeria, Kenya and Tanzania have pledged themselves to support the Patriotic Front if this situation occurs. This would be a tragedy because there would mean a step-up in the fighting and a step-up of the guerrilla activity. The Rhodesians themselves would turn to South Africa, and I think everybody recognises that South Africa has said that it would commit itself militarily in a situation such as this. Of course, with the forces that South Africa possesses, it would be in a much stronger situation than the Patriotic Front. As I have said, if the Patriotic Front, aided by moderates states such as Nigeria, Kenya and Tanzania, did not have arms and could not get supplies it would turn to the Eastern bloc. It has been said already that the East Germans acknowledge that they have in Africa what they call volunteers who would be prepared to fight. There would then be a blood bath that nobody would be able to stop and nobody wants. 
It is not often that I agree with the Prime Minister of Australia, but I am sure that  Mr Fraser  knows that. One only has to read his statements to understand that. One has to read only what  President  Carter and the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, Andrew Young, have said to realise that they know it too. It is for that reason that the United States will not lift the sanctions that apply at the moment and bring about instant recognition of ZimbabweRhodesia. It seems to me that only  Senator Sheil  and Margaret Thatcher do not seem to understand that point of view. 
I want to speak briefly about an issue that is causing a great deal of concern to a large number of trade unionists and their families. I refer to the consistent attack on penalty rates by this Government and by employer organisations. Under the guise that assistance has to be given to tourism and to the tourist industry, a campaign has been orchestrated by the Press, especially the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Age  aimed particularly at the liquor and hospitality employees in this country. No regard has been given to the consequences of this campaign. One only has to look at the history of penalty rates in this country. They have been an integral part of the Australian wage structure since 1947, following a test case in the Federal Arbitration Court. They are standard in seven-day-a-week industries. People in the industries do not regard penalty rates as fringe benefits. Because they have been in existence since 1 947, the people who work in those industries now regard penalty rates as a basic industrial right. 
There has been no consultation with the trade unions about this at all and, if it continues, there will be complete industrial chaos in the hospitality industry. It will not be any help for tourism at all. The unions will ensure that. It will be of no help to tourism if people cannot get a drink, if they cannot get their meals and if they have to carry their own luggage. There has been a union campaign against this situation. There are 90,000 members of the Liquor Trades Union throughout Australia. In New South Wales, 15,000 members of the Liquor Trades Union have already attended stop work meetings. Honourable senators hear a lot from the Government about the fact that unions hold stop work meetings and nobody turns up; only a militant few are able to manipulate union meetings. I stress again the fact that at stop work meetings called in an industry where it is particularly hard for some people to attend meetings, over 15,000 people have attended. They are determined. They voted unanimously. If this campaign continues they will close every club and hotel in this country. 
There are people who say that that is a threat, that the union is threatening industrial anarchy. I pose the question to anybody in the work force, or to any honourable senator: Who would be prepared to drop 25 per cent of their weekly salary if there were an immediate taking away of penalty rates? That is what it means to the vast majority of people who work in this industry. One also hears members of the Government talk about the odd person in the hospitality industry who, because of overtime rates say at Christmas time, earns a huge amount of money. The vast bulk, the overwhelming majority, of people in this industry do not receive those wages. They receive ordinary wages with inbuilt penalty rates. For historical reasons, weekends in Australiaespecially Saturday and Sunday nights- have been considered to be free time. Of course, some industries must continue over the weekends. The hospitality industry is essential but, as I have said, there are hundreds of thousands of people in the liquor industry whose average weekly wage is $2 10 a week. That includes penalties. 
It is also said by some people that in Australia and New Zealand there is a penalty rate situation that does not exist in any other country and that, therefore, they are better off. I point out that Australia and New Zealand probably also have one of the safest industrial records and some of the best workers compensation schemes anywhere in the world. Does that mean that we should start attacking these conditions the way that the penalty rates are being attacked? I would say not. It has been said by many people that if penalty rates are cut then that will help the tourist industry. If one compares Australian tariffs with those in the major tourist resorts, one finds that Australian rates compare quite favourably. 
I would not say that in all instances, either. 
The  Australian  carried a short but very revealing article on 2 February 1978 which reported on the regular  Financial Times  survey of the relative costs of hospitality in the major trading cities of the world. Sydney was thirtieth out of 72 cities, and well behind other capital cities where no penalty rates are paid to any of the employees. In many cases, room service would cease altogether at about 10 p.m. and many of these countries by comparison are very low-wage economies.  Senator Hamer  mentioned people not being able to get a meal on a Sunday. I suggest that in a lot of tourist resorts in the world, a similar situation exists. I suggest that honourable senators go to Fiji or Hawaii and try to get room service after midnight when there are no penalty rates, see what is charged, and compare that with the wages that people get. 
The Liquor Trades Union in New South Wales carried out a survey throughout the world. I will not take the time of the Senate by quoting extensively from the document that I have. I will just mention one particular example, in which the Liquor Trades Union found that the Hyatt hotel in Berlin charged $80, in Hawaii the charge was $60 and in Sydney it is only $45, and yet Sydney was the only place where penalty rates were paid. Similar examples can be quoted in detail for many other cities, especially Karachi, Bangkok, New Delhi, Calcutta and other Asian nations where hotels are as expensive or more expensive than Australian hotels but in which the people employed work for pathetically low wages by Australian standards. Often, a section of the staff works for nothing else but tips. 
The Premier of New South Wales has pointed out that the only fair way to adjust the present penalty system without provoking industrial chaos would be to negotiate a trade-off in wage levels. I believe that this process would be painstaking and would take a long time. It would cost almost as much as the present system. I have raised this issue as a warning to the Government that a deliberate attack on penalty rates would be unjust and would be seen to be unjust by those who have come to expect them as part of their conditions. Such an attack would be based on false premises economically and would be an invitation to prolong industrial conflict. The Liquor Trades Union in New South Wales is gearing itself for a prolonged conflict and for industrial chaos if this campaign continues. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government undertaken to extend the existing Coffs Harbour Airport, or does it intend to build an entirely new facility. 
Has any undertaking been given by an airline operator to operate medium jet aircraft on routes involving Coffs Harbour airport facilities. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon: 
All provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 and associated regulations and procedures, and in particular: 
changes that should be made to Parts XIII to XV of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which deal with methods of polling and the present system of counting returned votes; 
changes that should be made to Parts XVI and XVII of the Commonwealth Electoral Act so as to determine the best means of ensuring the public disclosure of the sources and amounts of donations to political parties and candidates, and prevent abuses of existing limitations on electoral expenses; and 
An appropriate method of allotting proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the Committee be contained in a subsequent resolution. 
I preface my question to the Attorney-General by explaining that, during the parliamentary recess, I received a letter from the office of the Minister for Education. It was an acknowledgement from the Minister concerning a problem of one of my constituents and contained no metal staples, paper clips, et cetera. However, on the back of the letter was a stamp which read: 'Examined by Australia Police'. Underneath was an unreadable signature and a date- 7 August 1979. The seal of the letter obviously had been interfered with. I have the letter here. I ask the Attorney-General: How long has it been the practice of Australia Police to open ministerial mail containing the confidential queries of constituents? In what circumstances is the mail of parliamentarians interfered with, and why? 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee: 
The revision of Standing Orders to provide that Committees may sit during the sittings of the Senate. 
I present two petitions from 1 19 and 66 citizens of Australia, respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate " is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension payments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and arises out of a question asked yesterday by  Senator Gietzelt  concerning the fact that  Mr Tony  Eggleton, the National Director of the Liberal Party, accompanied the Prime Minister on his recent visit to Africa in the Government's VIP Boeing aircraft. Can the Minister provide the Senate with  Mr Eggleton  's flight itinerary and inform it as to how many times, and for what purposes,  Mr Eggleton  has travelled on VIP aircraft, and whether the Liberal Party organisation, or  Mr Eggleton,  pays the relevant firstclass fare? 
I think that it is timely that we are debating the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that dealt with the topic of Australian representation overseas in the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is timely at this stage because we have just had the publishing of  Mr Alan  Renoufs book.  Mr Renouf,  as we know, was the Secretary at one stage of the Department of Foreign Affairs, and more recently was our Ambassador to the United States of America. In his book he has been strongly critical of Australia's foreign affairs policies. He has also dealt with the crisis that he thinks exists in the Department at the present time. I would like to quote from a review of his book. The review was written by  Sir Alan  Watt, who was Secretary of the Department of External Affairs, as it was then known, from 1950 to 1953. He has also been Australian Ambassador to the Soviet Union, West Germany and Japan. I am quoting from the review because I believe that a great deal of what he says in it would be agreed upon by the Committee, and certainly the majority of it I do agree with. He says: 
Renouf wants an independent foreign policy, directed to the promotion of Australian national interests. Harold Holt's All the way with LBJ and Menzies' support for Britain, right or wrong, at the time of the Suez crisis of 1 956, he finds misplaced, ineffective, inappropriate as a means of gaining respect, and dangerous because other countries tend to conclude that Australia is merely a British or American satellite. 
Australia should formulate and announce its own policy clearly, but not loudly or crudely, and pursue it normally by diplomatic means, avoiding reiterated confrontational public statements. 
An independent Australian foreign policy requires an effective Department of Foreign Affairs which, Renouf insists, alone has the trained personnel capable of devising a policy which pays due regard to the totality of Australia's overseas interests. 
He believes, however, that the department is just now in a state of crisis. Savage and disproportionate staff cuts, encroachments in the field of foreign policy by other departments such as Trade, Transport and Immigration, administrative shackles imposed by the Public Service Board and Treasury, and pressures for the Head of the department to become a business manager rather than a policy adviser have led to a loss of departmental self-confidence. 
Moreover, the growing tendency in recent years for Australian Prime Ministers to act as Presidents and to dominate the decision-making process, requiring their own enlarged staffs to counter-check the advice of functional departments, has helped to reduce the status and efficiency of the Department of Foreign Affairs and has stimulated indirectly the rate of resignation of valuable officers from that department. 
It was only this morning in Question Time that we heard  Senator Carrick  representing the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  really saying that the expertise of  Mr Eggleton,  the National Director of the Liberal Party, on southern Africa and Commonwealth affairs was such that he had to go to the Lusaka Conference. The way he was putting it, he tended to be our expert in this part of the world. I would not disagree that he has a great deal of experience with the Commonwealth Secretariat and that he has a great deal of knowledge and experience in southern Africa. I would also put it that there are people in the Department of Foreign Affairs who would be just as well qualified or perhaps better qualified. 
That is probably right. The review continues: 
In the author's opinion, Australia needs a Foreign Service Act giving the Minister for Foreign Affairs full administrative control and enabling all officers of other departments serving at Australian missions overseas to be seconded formally to Foreign Affairs while abroad and subjected to its Minister's discipline. This is a contentious proposal which other departments are likely to oppose strongly. 
I find myself in agreement with that. It continues: 
Only 'insiders' can judge the extent to which Renoufs account of his late department's 'crisis' is justified, but the February 1979 Report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, - 
That is the report that we are debating now.  after inquiry into the functions and activities of the Department of Foreign Affairs, provides considerable supporting  evidence of the need for the present government to reconsider its administrative arrangements for the conduct of foreign policy, especially the adequacy of finance and sufficiency of staff made available to Foreign Affairs to carry out its prescribed functions efficiently. 
As I said earlier, I find myself in agreement with just about all of that statement. I would like to turn to the report itself and deal with some of the recommendations that we made. The Committee found that staff ceilings had lowered morale considerably within the service, reducing efficiency and causing confusion for some officers concerning their future careers. This reduced career orientation of the Foreign Affairs staff could lead in the long term to a drop in the staffing standards of the Department. As a general rule, the staff ceilings resulted in dislocation and administrative difficulties, especially in foreign missions. In a number of cases locally engaged staff working in Australian missions had to be retrenched, lowering Australia's reputation as an employer. This is not just bad public relations; it also contributed to greater difficulties in recruiting appropriate overseas staff. 
I have just heard of one post, where as a result of locally engaged staff being dismissed, the staff concerned took out a court case against the employer, which in that case was the Australian Government. They did not win that court case, but I would submit that it did nothing for our reputation overseas. A number of locally engaged staff, particularly in some of the South East Asian countries, have worked for us for a number of years. Having to put those people off in those countries where there is no comparable jobs has certainly lowered Australia's image as an employer. 
In the region of security, the Committee recommended that urgent action be taken by the Government, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the relevant regulatory authorities to ensure that adequate funds were available for effective security at overseas posts; that staff ceilings do not inhibit the capability of the diplomatic security section of the Department of Foreign Affairs to perform its duties; that a separate travel provision is available to permit the section staff to undertake visits overseas for security measures; that regulatory authorities are fully briefed and made aware of the importance of recognising security threats and the need to plan against possible threats; that an appropriate authority is delegated to officers overseas to enable immediate action to be initiated when special circumstances arise. At a time when we have increased spending on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and increased spending on internal security, I think we ought to be thinking of the security at our overseas missions, and also of the security of our overseas staff. 
Along with  Senator Georges  and  Senator Knight,  I recently had the opportunity to visit some of our posts in Africa. We looked at the posts and at the staff conditions at DaresSalaam, at Lagos and at Nairobi. At DaresSalaam and Lagos security is vital. If there is no adequate surveillance, if just simple things such as windows, doors or locks need maintenance, really in those areas it could be a matter of life or death. I am sure that my colleagues who went with me would agree with me that it is not putting the situation too strongly to say that if these things are not done it could certainly result in injury or death to some of our overseas staff. 
As far as the overseas property management is concerned, I personally believe that we should purchase or construct property wherever it is possible to do so. I realise that in some countries it is certainly not possible. There are some countries where we are not allowed to purchase. Also there are some countries where, if we look at the instability ofthe political system, or if we look at the market trends, we would be well advised not to purchase or to build property. But in a number of countries, especially in a number of western countries and a number of countries in Europe, we are spending fortunes on rents and leases. I suppose the greatest example that one could point to would be the property that we own in Tokyo and the property that we own in Paris. I think it would be fair to say that if those properties were sold at the moment we would make millions of dollars in profit on the price we paid for them. In the past there has been a number of expensive errors in closing down posts. We had an economy drive a couple of years ago during which time we closed a number of posts- seven in all. We closed posts at Bombay, Calcutta, Hamburg, Berlin, Milan, Osaka and Los Angeles. Practically immediately afterwards we had to reopen in Los Angeles and Bombay, at a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars. I have spoken in this place at least twice before on the situation in Los Angeles. I will not bore the Senate with a continuation of that tonight, but in Los Angeles, we found ourselves in a situation where we were trying to buy back, just over 12 months later, I think for a cost of an additional $200,000, property which we had already sold. It was a residence. I think what we ought to do with overseas property is to reappraise our situation. We are continually opening new posts. It is only in the last 12 or 18 months that we opened in Damascus and we opened in Iraq. 
I notice that in Alan Renoufs book he has suggested that Australia might close in Ghana because in his opinion we do not have a great deal of interest there. He also suggests that, if we are going to continue to cut aid to Vietnam, perhaps we ought not to have an embassy in Hanoi. I believe we should continue with aid to Vietnam and that we should have an embassy in Hanoi. What I am saying is that we ought to operate on the basis of looking at the posts and how they affect Australia's interests. If it is a fact that Ghana requires closing, we ought to close it. If we need to open somewhere else, we ought to open there. We should not be getting involved in phoney economy drives such as we have seen over the last couple of years. 
The Committee dealt at length with the situation concerning recruitment and training in the Department of Foreign Affairs. There have been Government cutbacks in yearly intakes. There have been resignations in the Department and I believe that these have left a rather large gap. Perhaps we are not going to feel the effect of that at the moment, but in a few years time, when the people who should have been recruited a few years ago should be reaching senior positions, there will be a gap there. There will not be available people to fill those positions. One of the things that I wanted to remark upon in relation to training was the inadequacy of our language training. Quite frankly it is a joke. One would not expect that Australia would have the facilities of, say, the United States of America or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. One would not expect Australia to be in a position that the Committee heard about where diplomatic representatives from the Soviet Union visited Tonga or Samoa- I forget for the moment which country it was- and when they arrived there could speak the local language. Those sorts of facilities and language training could be indulged in only by super-powers like the Soviet Union or the United States of America. There would be languages in which Australians would never be adequate, where there would never be enough people to warrant training in those languages. I can only think of one off the cuff at the moment, the Burmese language. Our post there would not be big enough. We would not have enough people going through there continually to warrant training in that particular language. But there are a number of other languages in which we ought to encourage training, especially in the languages of the South Pacific, where these people are extremely sensitive to the increased diplomatic pressures with which they are being surrounded at the moment. But certainly there should be training in the languages of member countries of the Associations of South East Asian Nations and, more importantly, in a few of the Arabic languages. 
Another important thing that the Committee dealt with was consular careers. Over the years, especially recently, there has been a growing number of Australians travelling overseas, and there has been an increasing demand on consular services. The usual problems arise. There are lost passports and lost medical cards, and people who are travelling suffer ill-health which requires hospitalisation. There are robberies, there are accidents, there are drug arrests and, generally, the sorts of things that Australian embassies, consulates and high commissions did not find they had to deal with in such large numbers in past years. I think one example which comes to mind is Bali in respect of which we heard evidence that because of the large number of Australians visiting and passing through as tourists, because of the number of problems that they are finding, especially with some of the younger people with drug offences, consular services would in fact be required there. 
At the moment, in a number of countries we find that the British are carrying the bag for us. I do not know why they should do so. It is quite obvious that in a number of countries the British are closing posts. Recently I received a query from Australians on holidays in Colombia in South America where they had to rely exclusively on the British Embassy to help them out in very difficult circumstances. We would certainly have to be flexible in regard to locations because, as the tourist trade moves up and down, so these locations would have to be changed. Another example comes to mind very readily, that is, with the introduction of cheap fares and the increased number of Australians travelling between Australia and Honolulu, the very thing that I have been talking about is happening. I believe that not only has there been an upgrading in the status of our people there but also there has been a request for an increase in the consular staff. 
The Committee dealt at length with the situation concerning the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. The Committee found that more flexibility was needed with regard to the classification of positions in ADAB. In many posts, Foreign Affairs officers are performing duties which largely concern development assistance, but because of the present arrangements specialists in the development assistance area are not able to be employed. The present rules applying prevent them from being posted unless their duties are 100 per cent development assistance. The Committee also saw as a matter of urgency a need to increase the staff resources of ADAB so that it could adequately discharge its responsibilities. The Committee also recommended the introduction of secondments to international organisations with similar functions as part of an overall increase in the emphasis on the training of ADAB staff members.The Committee recommended that there must be a more realistic assessment of the travel needs of ADAB staff. Overall, the general impression of the priorities given to ADAB by the Department and the Government was one of disappointment. It should be remembered that the present Government has accepted the proposition that narrowing the gap between the wealthy and the poor nations of the world is the most important international issue. It was certainly given this priority by the Prime Minister recently at Lusaka. One would be hard pressed to figure this out from the inadequate staffing and general facilities made available to ADAB. 
I wish also to make some comments about Australian aid. With  Senator Georges  and  Senator Knight,  I recently visited an Australian project in Singida in northern Tanzania. It was the Australian-Tanzanian ground water project. That aid is particularly well received. The Australians there are doing a great job. Australia is a small aid donor in Africa, and I believe it will always remain so. One matter about which the Tanzanians are worried, and what we have to ensure, is that there will be sufficient funds and that these funds will come on a regular basis so that we are able to tell the Tanzanian Government and the people there that these projects will be able to be finished. Even though I said that Australia will always remain a small aid donor in Africa, if one looks at the cost and efficiency of these projects and the way they are received there is certainly room for more projects at low costs on the same sort of scale as we saw at Singida. Australia could also do more in regard to tropical medicine and research in the underdeveloped nations of South East Asia, Africa and perhaps South America. 
The Committee dealt with the conditions of service of members of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Accommodation was one matter that arose. I recently looked at accommodation in Lagos, Dar-es-Salaam and Nairobi. In Lagos and Dar-es-Salaam we have 2 hardship posts. One of the things that struck me was the difference between the residence provided for the High Commissioner and the accommodation provided for the staff. In all of those places the difference is absolutely staggering. In fact, from talking to the heads of our missions in these places I know that they are embarrassed and certainly something has to be done about the standard of staff accommodation in some of these posts. I know that Australia is building a new compound in Lagos. I am very impressed with it. It will have its own electricity supply and air conditioning. However, I wonder how many senators and how many people in Foreign Affairs would be happy about living behind brick walls with barbed wire and broken glass on top of them. This is the sort of situation in which our staff in Lagos will have to live. 
I object strongly to the fact that the Committee- so I felt- was being used as a tribunal for salaries, allowances and grievances by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Affairs staff have their own industrial strength and association. They should be part of the Public Service unions. Even though I agreed to recommendation No. 9 on conditions of service, which talks about allowances, I did strongly feel that that was not the task of the Committee and that the remedy was in the hands of the Foreign Affairs staff to take whatever industrial action they think is appropriate. 
I think the Committee had a difficult task. In fact, this was the third time in recent years that a committee of this Parliament has inquired into the Department of Foreign Affairs. In the circumstances it was a very good report. In an era of increasingly complex international issues and growing interdependence between nations, Australia must participate both bilaterally and multilaterally in world affairs. We need an efficient Department of Foreign Affairs, and a Department of Foreign Affairs with a high morale.  Mr Renouf  was worried about the crisis in the Department. The Committee was aware of that situation. I am certainly worried about what I regard as a crisis within the Department of Foreign Affairs and I will be interested to see the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock). 
This report was brought down in February; it is now August and I do believe that if we had a reply from the Minister then the Government perhaps would not be in such an embarrassing situation, as it is at the moment, over  Mr Renoufs  book. If we had received a reply on this report perhaps the Minister and the Department would have been able to say: 'Yes, the Department and the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence looked at this; they looked at the problems and we are doing something about it'. That is not the situation. That situation has gone on for over six months. There has not been a reply to this report. I am grateful for the opportunity that we have now been given to debate it. As I said earlier, it is an appropriate time because of the publishing of this book on the crisis in the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is something about which all members of the Senate should be aware and about which they should take a great deal of notice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) Was agreement reached by the Wagga City Council, Cootamundra Council, the Australian Gas Light Corporation and the National Pipeline Authority for the development of a National Gas Pipeline to be constructed to serve the cities of Wagga, Cootamundra and Young, in New South Wales. 
Will the National Pipeline Authority be granted the funds to go ahead with this project; if not, why not. 
No doubt the Minister representing the Treasurer is aware that in Australia there are a number of registered charities whose activities include sponsoring children in various parts of the underdeveloped world. As these schemes encourage Australians to participate actively in Third World aid on an individual basis, has the Government considered providing an incentive to donors by making such donations tax deductible? 
In the other place earlier today the honourable member for Robertson,  Mr Barry  Cohen, at Question Time asked this question of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon): 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether it is a fact that the original tender documents for car rental concessions at Commonwealth airports provided that the third or local car rental concessionaire could not sell or assign his right to operate to another party. Were the terms and conditions of contracts changed after tenders had been accepted to enable the third operator to sell or assign with the approval of the Secretary to the Minister's Department? Has this enabled Avis, which missed out as one of the national operators, to purchase from Elite and Thrifty rent-a-car firms their concessions at Hobart, Devonport, Wynyard, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta, thus enabling Avis to link up with its own concessions as third operator giving it rent-a-car concessions at 90 per cent of prime airport locations for a fraction of the price paid by Hertz and Budget? Who gave the authority for this action? 
At this point the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party  (Mr Hayden)  said: 'Scandalous'.  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport said- it is very revealing- 'There is nothing scandalous yet. Just wait and be patient'. I am sure that this will prove to be a Freudian slip. He went on to say: 'There will be nothing scandalous about this matter by the time it is completed '. I want to give some background to the matter and to the Minister's response. At 2 p.m. on 9 March 1979 tenders closed for the rental car concessions at the 58 Commonwealth airports owned and controlled by the Federal Department of Transport. The original tender document C3/79/10 contained an appendix B headed Terms and Conditions to be observed by Concessionaires'. Section 6, dealing with the assignment of rights, stated: 
The concessionaire shall not assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under this authority or sub-let any part or parts of the business, except that he may appoint persons as his agent on franchise for the purpose of conducting the business at any of the airports. The concessionaire shall not permit any person so approved to conduct the business otherwise than in the name of the concessionaire. 
On this basis, Hertz, Budget and Avis tendered for two national concessions. Budget, Avis and a number of small rent-a-car firms tendered for various third or local concessions. When the results of the tenders were announced, Hertz had won the No. 1 position with a tender of $8.1m and Budget the No. 2 position with a tender of $3.2m. Avis, the holder of the position for sole operation for a number of years, had missed out with a bid of $3.1m. However, Avis had been successful for the third operation spot at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns, Mackay, Mount Isa, Rockhampton, Townsville, Launceston, Port Hedland and Alice Springs. A variety of other firms had won the third operation spot at the other airports. 
Shortly afterwards it was announced that Avis, in complete breach of the tender documents, had negotiated the purchase of the concessions at Hobart, Devonport and Wynyard from Elite and at Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta from Thrifty Rent-a-Car. The figure for the purchase has been suggested as between $ 1.5m and $1.6m. Avis therefore had gained access to the 18 prime airports that generate 90 per cent of traffic for a figure of around $2m which is twothirds of what Budget had paid and for onequarter of what Hertz Rent-a-Car had paid. When the documents of contract were returned to the other companies it was noted that a significant change had occurred that altered the whole meaning of the original tender documents. 
The alteration had occurred to appendix B which I quoted before and which now reads: 
The concessionaire shall not assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under the authority - 
These are the new words- 
Without the approval of the Secretary of the Department of Transport. 
They had not been in the original tender documents. Budget has now announced that it is taking legal action. It is now quite clear to a number of people who have examined these documents that some person or persons in the Government acted in an immoral, unethical and corrupt way to advantage Avis Rent-a-Car and therefore Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. If the Facom- IBM incident was a scandal for this Government I believe that the issue that I have raised tonight will prove to be a disaster for this Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Has the Government reviewed the position of the North West Liquefied Natural Gas project; if so, does the Government intend to support the project. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for National Development to the Minister's statement on 30 August 1979 in which he said: 
Because of problems in Iran, the outlook for further supplies of avgas from Abadan in the remainder of 1979 is very uncertain. 
What is the information in the possession of the Government which is the basis for that statement and how uncertain are the supplies of avgas from Iran? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that because of the difficulty in obtaining petroleum product carriers on the international shipping routes, it will be some months before distillate distribution shortages in north Queensland are overcome? When was the Government first made aware of this situation? 
Has the Minister for Social Security received a submission from the ManlyWarringah Children's Refuge Association requesting Federal Government assistance for the staffing of a children's refuge in the ManlyWarringah district? Does the Government support in principle the Federal funding of such worthy community projects, especially when the New South Wales Government has contributed the land for the project and a voluntary committee has raised $41,000 in just 18 months? In view of the importance of such facilities in this Year of the Child, will the Government give funding assistance to this particular project. 
Has the Leader of the Government seen the statement by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  that he personally favours a four-year term for governments and that a referendum to alter the term of the New South Wales Parliament could be conducted in conjunction with the next State election? Can the Minister say whether the Government has given any consideration to this concept? Will the Government consider supporting such a move by initiating legislation for a constitutional referendum on the question? 
I present the following petition from 66 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament assembled. The petition of certain citizens of N.S.W. respectfully showeth: 
Dismay at the reduction of the total expenditure on education proposed for 1980 and in particular to Government Schools. 
Government Schools bear the burden of these cuts, 1 1 . 2 per cent while non-Government schools will receive an increase of 3.4 percent. 
We call on the Government to again examine the proposals as set out in the guidelines for Education expenditure 1980 and to immediately restore and increase substantially in real terms the allocation of funds for education expenditure in 1980 to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: In view of the active role played by the Australian 
Government on the United Nations Preparatory Committee and in the Special Session on Disarmament in 1978, does the Government have any plans to mark United Nations Disarmament Week, beginning 24 October, with special activities or the distribution through public bodies of materials informing the Australian people of the importance of disarmament? Also, does the Government intend to establish, and assist in the funding of, a committee representative of interested groups in the Australian community to undertake research and to publicise the second Special Session on Disarmament in 1980, along lines similar to those of committees established for the International Women's Year and the International Year of the Child? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will be aware that on 25 May 1 978 the Prime Minister stated that parliamentary committee reports would be responded to by the relevant Ministers within six months. As none of the reports tabled since that time by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has been responded to, will the Minister agree that that Committee's work and recommendations are being deliberately ignored? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
What action is proposed to modify any of the Perry Class Missile-firing Frigates that have been ordered by the 
Royal Australian Navy, to allow them to carry and operate Lamps III anti-submarine helicopters. 
What is the estimated cost of any such modification and when will they be undertaken. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
What action is proposed to waive the requirement of the Department of Social Security for elderly pensioners over the age of 75 regularly to fill out entitlement review forms, in view of the low probability of any change in the income or marital status of these pensioners, and in view of the savings of paperwork within the Department which would result from the waiving of the requirement. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a submission from the Manly- Warringah Children's Refuge Association requesting Federal Government assistance for the staffing of a Children 's Refuge in the Manly- Warringah district. 
What action has the Government taken to support the principle of Federal funding of such worthy community projects, especially in view of the New South Wales Government's contribution of the land for the Manly- Warringah Children's Refuge and the fact that a voluntary committee has raised $4 1 ,000 for the project in a period of 1 8 months. 
What action is proposed to give funding assistance to this particular project, in view ofthe importance of such facilities, in the International Year of the Child. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
Why have restrictions on leave of absence for long term nursing home patients been imposed by the Department of Health. 
When were the restrictions introduced, and what is their exact nature. 
What action, if any, is proposed to change these restrictions. 
I present the following petition from 2,412 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, as it is clear that unemployment is a long term problem in Australia, the Government should extend to the unemployed the same assistance as is given to any other disadvantaged member of the community. There is an urgent need to alleviate the financial hardship and emotional stress that the unemployed are suffering. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Government adopt positive policies to reduce unemployment, 
That the basic Unemployment Benefit be raised to at least the level of the poverty line as calculated by Professor Henderson, 
In line with other Social Service additional income awards, and in order to encourage work creation schemes and the fostering of initiative and self respect, that the $6 per week additional income limit be raised to at least $20 per week, 
That the financial penalties above the earning of $20 per week, assessed on a monthly basis, bc calculated at the same rate as other Social Security benefits. 
That the Commonwealth grant subsidies to state governments so that the unemployed can be granted transport concessions in order that they are not penalised in job seeking. 
That pharmaceutical and medical concessions be granted to the unemployed equivalent to those received by other Social Service beneficiaries. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the Senate of the reason or reasons that  Mr Jim  Bayutti has not been reappointed to the Board of Qantas Airways Ltd, especially in view of the excellent work done by  Mr Bayutti  amongst the Australian ethnic community on behalf of Qantas while he was a member of the Board, an example being the work he did as  President  of the Italian-Australian Association, an organisation based in Italy, which was responsible for raising millions of dollars of additional revenue for Qantas in recent years? 
This Bill modernises existing legislation. I agree with the majority of the provisions of the Bill. 1 disagree with some sections of it. I find myself in agreement with a lot of the remarks made today by  Senator Knight  and  Senator Sim.  Along with them I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that held an inquiry into the Department of Foreign Affairs and dealt with some of the problems of our consular service. As  Senator Knight  said, there has been a tremendous increase in the number of Australians who are going overseas. I believe he used a figure of one million for this year and said that it is likely to increase to a figure of three million a year in the 1 980s. 
Our consular services as they exist at the moment are inadequate.  Senator Sim  mentioned the point that in a lot of places the British are carrying the bag and doing the work for us. I had a letter recently from an Australian who got into difficulties with visas in South America, in Colombia and in Paraguay. In each case he had to go to the British Embassy to get him out of trouble. In fact right throughout the world Britain is declining its diplomatic representation and we will not be able to rely on that country all the time in the future. I believe there is a very strong case for having a special consular section within the Department of Foreign Affairs where people can take up consular work as a career as opposed to the present situation. I would expect that because of the tremendous number of Australians who are travelling overseas at the moment there will be a special need in the near future to increase our consular staff in Honolulu and to open a new post in Bali purely because of the sorts of problems that are occurring. I have had people write to me about the problems they have encountered in Bali with drug offences, traffic charges, hospitalisation problems, and lost passports- all the sorts of things that occur as Australians travel more and more throughout the world. 
The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in its report on dual nationality, looked at a problem that has been talked about today. As a member of the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee I support the amendment which would delete the place of birth on the passport and insert the place of residence. When people make application for an Australian passport we need to ascertain the date and place of birth. I wish to read into  Hansard  evidence which was placed before the Committee from the Joint Baltic Committee of Canberra. It states: 
A matter which requires special attention regarding Australian citizens of Baltic origin travelling abroad is the information contained in Australian passports issued to such travellers. At present such passports require to state the place of birth of the holder of the passport. If such place happens to be within the present boundaries of the Soviet Union and the passport is presented to a Soviet authority abroad, or at a place which is governed by the Soviet Union, the authority may treat the person as a Soviet citizen for all purposes. He may be detained, imprisoned or deponed to remote Soviet regions, without giving him adequate right and opportunity to defend himself. 
We believe that there is no special need to state in the passport the place of the birth of the holder of the passport. Such information is in the same category as the religion or the race of a person. It is not essential for identification purposes but it may cause embarrassment and hardship to the holder. It is suggested that the 'place of birth' be omitted from Australian passports and the 'present domicile' of the passport holder be inserted instead. 
As I said, that came from the Joint Baltic Committee. Of course, when it is near election time the Government always wants to do something for the Baltic community. It throws it a scrap when some fake communist campaign is on in some trade union. 
Or captive nations week. I suggest that there is a chance for the Government to really do something today for the Baltic community by supporting the amendment put forward by the Opposition. 
I will get to that in a minute. I do not believe that there is a great deal of difference. I am sure that the Baltic community would not want the city shown on the passport. As a result of this, the Joint Committee on 
Foreign Affairs and Defence stated in its recommendations: 
There is a strong argument that in any official document the Australian Government should not appear to make distinctions between naturalised and natural-born citizens. In view of this the practice of showing the place of birth of the holder on an Australian passport might bc discontinued and in its stead 'place of residence ' inserted. The adoption of this suggestion might tend to avoid some difficulties encountered by dual nationals when visiting the country of their other nationality. The Committee suggests further study of this possible change in the form of passports. 
I know that  Senator Knight  and  Senator Sim  have said today that there is an argument- what seems to be a fairly legitimate argument- that some other countries object to this and that if we did this on our own we would be placing people in a difficult situation. However, I believe that it can be overcome. I understand that in Switzerland recently legislation was introduced allowing for the sort of thing we are putting forward today. 1 want to refer now to clause 8, which deals with the reasons for refusing passports. Clause 8 states that a person can be refused a passport when the authorised officer believes that he already has in his possession or control an Australian passport in force, unless there are special reasons. I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  to tell the Senate later what are the special reasons for somebody having two passports. During the last parliamentary recess I was a member of a parliamentary delegation that visited Africa. When we were having a briefing on the Sudan- one of the countries we were going to- it was pointed out that if any of us had Israeli visas in our passports we could be refused admission to the Sudan. Subsequently I checked this out with officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, which also gave us a briefing. They confirmed that this was correct and that I should apply for another passport as I had an Israeli visa- unused, incidentally- in my official passport. Finally, a matter of three weeks to a month later, when I was in Nairobi an ordinary Australian passport arrived. The situation then was that I had an official passport and an ordinary passport. 
I have still got them. When 1 was in Nairobi I spoke to the Egyptian Ambassador, who would be well known to many members of the Senate because he was the Egyptian Ambassador in Canberra before he went to Nairobi. I raised this matter with him and also with the Ambassador from the Sudan, who was at a social function with us. They both advised me that at that moment it was not necessary to have two passports, probably because of the increasing links between Israel and Egypt and the strong links between Egypt and the Sudan. I want to make it perfectly clear that I am not critical of the personnel of the Department of Foreign Affairs, either in Canberra or Nairobi. In fact, the opposite is the case. They did everything to protect my interests, and I appreciate that. They followed the instructions that were given to them and I followed the instructions they gave to me. Of course, the situation now is that I have an official passport with an Israeli visa in it and an ordinary passport with a visa for the Sudan. 
That leads me to a number of questions. Firstly, what is government policy? What happens when a Minister, a trade official or a businessman travels through the Middle East? Would such a person have a passport for Israel in one pocket and a passport for the Arab countries in another pocket? When he flies out of Israel does he change aeroplanes and change his passport? What is government policy for tourists visiting the Middle East? What advice do we give to Australians who may be forced to have a stopover in Damascus or Bahrein, places where Qantas stops? What happens if mechanical or technical problems arise and people have to stay in those cities for a number of days? What would be the situation if they already had an Israeli visa in an Australian passport? Do we give them any advice? Does Qantas give them any advice? I point out that Qantas is not the only airline that flies from Europe to Australia with stopovers in the Middle East. A number of airlines stop over at Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, and even parts of Iran. What advice do we give to Australians who are visiting Libya or Iraq, two countries that question Israel 's right to exist, if they have an Israeli visa in their passports? It could be that the visa is years old. It could be that the passport is coming to the end of its life and that early in the life of that passport the person visited Israel. Do we give such people any advice at all? It could be that before they left Australia to go overseas and sought a visa to Israel they had no intention of going to some of the countries I have mentioned. What happens to such people if they arrive at Libya or Iraq and have an Australian passport with an Israeli visa in it? If it is government policy that people should have two passports because of this Middle East issue, I think it is wrong and should be reviewed. 
I am coming to that. I think it is a fundamental part of Australian foreign policy, a bipartisan part of our foreign policy, that we do not question Israel's right to exist. I do not believe we ought to tarnish that policy with a two-passport policy for the Middle East, at any level. 
I think we should be dealing with this at a government-to-government level. I think the appropriate level at which to commence is the official passport level. As I have said, it is a question that ought to be dealt with on a government-to-government basis. We should inform the countries which are demanding this that there is one official passport and that is it, full stop. 
On my experience, we ought to check up on the policy in a number of these countries. I have mentioned that we were informed here that the Sudan would not accept my passport, but in fact it did. 
It does change with circumstances, but I believe that a stand ought to be taken at a government level. The Government ought to protest at least about this situation. I have raised a number of issues and I hope that the Minister can give me answers to them later. It is something that I intend to push in the Committee stage of the debate. 
-I appreciate the answers I got from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  about the two passport policy. I understand why it is necessary. However, I wish to ask some other questions. In my earlier speech I asked about the Government's policy on tourists visiting the Middle East, and I now include Taiwan, and the advice given to Australians who may have forced stopovers. I mentioned two places, Damascus and Bahrain. I mention this because of what happened to me on a flight. We stopped at a place called Abadan in Iran. Luckily enough we had to stop for only about five hours. What would have been the situation for somebody with an Israeli visa if the travellers had to stay there overnight? I wonder how that great liberal democrat the Ayatollah Khomeini and his team would have dealt with the situation. Such a situation nearly occurred with the airline with which I travelled. What advice do we give Australians who are visiting countries like Libya or Iraq? What information do the airlines give these people when they are leaving Australia? Sometimes these people would not wish to visit those countries but they might be forced to stop over. 
I also appreciate the point that  Senator Knight  was making, that the government of a country can insist on certain conditions. The point I was trying to make was that we should protest at the highest level- government to government. I think we should avoid the situation which happened a couple of years ago. It was ludicrous. Everybody in the countries which a delegation of members of this Parliament visited knew that the delegation had been to Israel- it was touring the Middle East- and that its members each had two passports. In that situation members of the delegation should have said that they would not go. 
Again I appreciate the answers I got from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I suggest that the Commonwealth should print a brochure, to be given out when anybody purchases an airline ticket, telling people about the dangers of visiting certain places in the Middle East and of the situation between China and Taiwan. I still think that there is a loophole. The loophole occurs with a passport which has been in force for four or five years and which has been used for visits to Taiwan, China, Israel, Libya or one of the other countries concerned. When that person makes another visit he may find himself in trouble the first time he produces his passport. 
I suppose that is my question. I do not think there is. The situation has been brought home to me personally. I make these observations for whatever they are worth. 
I take it from what the Minister has said that in my situation I should have had two official passports, one as a member of the Parliament and one as a member of an official delegation. I should not have been issued with an ordinary passport, but with a second official passport. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
Has the General Secretary of the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations made statements concerning the alarming situation which has developed whereby many of Australia's brightest graduate students are unable to gain sufficient funds for research work and are forced to find posts overseas; if so, what action is proposed to increase research expenditure in Australia. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As the true nature of the Pol Pot regime in Kampuchea is now becoming apparent to all Australians, will the Minister explain the technical reasons why the Government continues to recognise this monstrous regime? Can the Minister explain why the Government does not adopt the policy of non-recognition of any of the various regimes in the country as has been adopted by the United States Government? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of remarks made by the  Chairman  of East- West Airlines (Operations) Ltd,  Mr George  Harrison, that the Federal Government is determined to restrict the growth of the company? Is it a fact that this country-based free enterprise company paid over $2m in government charges last year? Is the decision to grant a licence to Ansett Airlines of Australia to duplicate services between Sydney and Maroochydore in Queensland- a route built up over 10 years by the East- West company- another example of the Government's so-called free enterprise airline policy? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Is it planned to establish a pre-natal statistics unit at the school of public health and tropical medicine; if so; (a) will the general public, or at least medical practitioners, have access to the statistics on demand; (b) what will be the total staff complement; and (c) what qualifications will staff members be expected to have obtained. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate. It arises out of the question that was asked earlier by  Senator Melzer.  Has the Department of Transport carried out any studies to determine the potential extra risks arising out of widespread use of liquefied petroleum gas as a substitute for petrol in both commercial and private vehicles? Further, does the Minister have any information on the disastrous lethal range of an LPG tanker if it were involved in an accident and exploded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
What action is proposed by the Government in relation to Amnesty International's request to have included in the European Convention of Human Rights the principle that any person who is, under the national legislation of his country, liable for conscription into his country's armed forces, may, on the grounds of conscience or profound conviction arising from ethical, moral, humanitarian, philosophical or similar motives: 
refuse military service or any direct or indirect participation in wars or armed conflicts; 
refuse to serve in a particular war or armed conflict, because he considers it unjust; or 
refuse to participate in a war or armed conflict in which weapons of mass destruction are likely to be used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veteran's Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
1 ) What is the normal waiting period for the granting of a Veterans * Affairs pension after the initial application. 
What certification of service is required by the Department of Veterans ' Affairs from the Department of Defence. 
What is the usual time lapse between a request from the Department of Veterans' Affairs for certification and its receipt from the Department of Defence. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is the Minister aware of the warnings by  Dr Mark  Harris, a Sydney paediatrician attached to the environmental health group of the inner Sydney regional council for social development, that the concentration of carbon monoxide and other pollutants in the atmosphere in south-western and centra] Sydney was sufficient to exacerbate bronchia-pneumonic and respiratory complaints in children and heart disease in adults. In view of this and other warnings about the dangers to public health presented by air pollution in metropolitan Sydney, will the Government cease its attacks on the New South Wales Government's intention to enforce rule 27A on motor vehicle exhaust emission by 198 1? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the total cost to the Government of chartering private planes to undertake coastal reconnaissance. 
How many companies are involved and what are their names. 
How many aircraft are used by each of the companies, and of what type are they. 
On what basis is payment to the companies calculated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979:  
What action is proposed to rectify the situation whereby there is no tax rebate for the purchase of hearing aids while there is a system of rebate for the purchase of eyeglasses. 
Can the situation be alleviated by providing rebates for the purchase of hearing aids, or by providing any other form of direct assistance to deaf persons requiring these devices. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that Qantas Airways Ltd recorded a $773,000 consolidated operating profit after tax of $ 17.5m for the year to 31 March 1979? Is he further aware that exchange losses of $23.1 m were due to the fact that Qantas was required to borrow in Swiss francs to finance aircraft purchases? As this is the second substantial loss suffered by Qantas because of exchange variations, will the Government consider changing its policy to allow Qantas to borrow in Australian dollars in Australia to finance further aircraft purchases? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Are arrangements being made for the United States Ambassador to Japan,  Mr Mansfield,  to visit Australia in November 1979. 
Are the arrangements being given a level of priority reserved for visits by Heads of Government; if so, what is the reason for this level of priority being given to the Ambassador's visit and is it related to the inability of key members of the Carter administration to visit Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
Does Telecom not now check intra-state trunk call bookings with subscribers; if so: (a) was this practice adopted as a temporary measure during the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association dispute: (b) will Telecom revert to the former practice: and (c) will subscribers have any recourse to query accounts if their trunk calls have not been checked before connection. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that Japan has paid a $1.4m licence fee for access to tuna in the Australian 200-mile economic zone? In view of the fact that the Chief General Manager of the South Australian Fishermen's Co-operative Ltd,  Mr Fowler,  estimates that the Japanese would have paid $10m for the access, will he agree with  Mr Fowler  that the decision has done a great deal of damage to the Australian fishing industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) What measures dues the Bureau of Customs take to monitor imports of industrial chemicals to ascertain: (a) the type and amount of each particular chemical; (b) the identity of the importers; (c) the purpose for which the chemicals are to be used; and (d) the potential occupational health hazard of certain chemical imports. 
Does the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs refer potentially toxic industrial chemicals to the Department of Health, or medical bodies for examination. 

 Senator Durack the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs does not monitor on a continuing basis imported industrial chemicals and their end use in Australia for the purpose of determining their potential occupational health hazards. 
End use controls and expert knowledge of potentially toxic industrial chemicals rest with other Commonwealth and State departments and authorities. Those bodies bring to the notice of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs cases where sampling may be required or positive import restrictions and prohibitions should be introduced. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the nature of the facilities at the Deakin telephone exchange, other than the domestic and international telephone systems, in view of the attention drawn to the facilities during the protracted period of Skylab's descent. 
How long have these facilities been in existence and what function do they perform. 
I present the following petition from 4,02 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, as it is clear that unemployment is a long term problem in Australia, the Government should extend to the unemployed the same assistance as is given to any other disadvantaged member of the community. There is an urgent need to alleviate the financial hardship and emotional stress that the unemployed are suffering. 
Your petitioners therefore pray. 
That the Government adopt positive policies to reduce unemployment. 
That the basic Unemployment Benefit be raised to at least the level of the poverty line as calculated by Professor Henderson, 
In line with other Social Service additional income awards, and in order to encourage work creation schemes and the fostering of initiative and self respect, that the $6 per week additional income limit be raised to at least $20 per week, 
That the financial penalties above the earning of $20 per week, assessed on a monthly basis, be calculated at the same rate as other Social Security benefits. 
That the Commonwealth grant subsidies to state governments so that the unemployed can be granted transport concessions in order that they are not penalised in job seeking. 
That pharmaceutical and medical concessions be granted to the unemployed equivalent to those received by other Social Service beneficiaries. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It refers to the social security frauds case. On what date did the Attorney-General and the Governor-General grant a pardon to  Mr Nakis  who, on his own admission, had lied in several interviews with the police? Was it before or after 4 April 1978 when  Mr Nakis  was arrested? Were the terms of the pardon to grant him immunity from government prosecution and from any future legal action arising from the alleged social security frauds case? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
What were the extent and cost of the damage caused by fire at the Radio Communications Service Centre at Botany on Sunday, 17 December 1978. 
How was the fire reported, and were there any suspicious circumstances. 
What precautions were taken to prevent access to the building. 
How did the damage affect the radio communications network. 
What security is now being provided for the radio communications facilities at Waverley-Redfern, in view of the fire at Botany. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
What is the normal length of time that persons purchasing: 
neckbraces under the pensioner medical benefits scheme; and 
eyeglasses, have to wait between application for, and fitting of, these devices. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) What are the details of the classification of private schools in New South Wales to which State Aid is paid. 
What is the amount paid per student to schools which fall into each classification. 
What are the criteria used in classification of private schools. 
Do private schools receiving State Aid specify, and account for, how these funds are used. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Has the Government considered introducing a system, on a means criterion, of identification cards for persons on superannuation benefits who are experiencing hardship because of inflation, but who are ineligible for concessions offered by local and State Government authorities, so that such persons would be eligible to receive sundry benefits and discounts for which other aged persons are eligible. 
-by leave- I present the report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Tanzania, Nigeria, Gabon and the Sudan in June- July 1979 and seek leave to make a brief statement. 
Leave granted. 
The delegation visited five Commonwealth countries, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia and Nigeria, French speaking Gabon and the Sudan in a period of 26 days. The itinerary was particularly crowded. The delegation stayed in 1 7 different hotels and made 1 5 international flights. As well, it undertook ground travel internally within a number of these countries. This travel took place in conditions which ranged from frost in Zambia to 43 degrees centigrade in the Sudan. I think the itinerary was probably too strenuous. Because a parliamentary delegation had not been in Africa for 1 1 years the temptation to crowd the itinerary was something that none of the members of the delegation foresaw. One of the problems was the additional internal travel that took place in a number of the countries visited. The delegation made a number of recommendations concerning Australia's representation in Africa. On page 84 of its report it states: 
The delegation believes that Australia should be increasing its representation in non-Commonwealth Africa and Sudan is a case in point. In respect of Gabon, the other nonCommonwealth country visited the delegation recommends that, for the time being at least, the Australian High Commissioner in Lagos should also be accredited to Gabon. (The  delegation recognises that there may well be more important French African countries, such as Senegal or the Ivory Coast where an Australian Embassy could be established in due course.) 
The delegation further recommends that in view of the importance Zambia and its Leader are assuming in the southern African question as a whole, Australia's representation should be visible and resident in Lusaka. 
Nigeria clearly regretted the closure of Australia's Trade Office in Lagos. It appreciated the reasons for it at the time but it would welcome a review of the decision. Nigeria also made a particular point of the expertise Australia has in areas of agriculture relevant to Nigeria 's planned development with a view to increasing the number of Nigerian students receiving training in Australia. The delegation recommends a review of the facilities Australia has with a view to expanding development assistance in this area, fitting in, as it does, into the technology transfer that Nigerians themselves see to be so important today. 
The delegation made a recommendation about direct air links to Africa. On page 86 of its report it states: 
The delegation believes that the opening of a direct air route to East Africa would be the single most important stimulus for the development of relations with these countries overall. A flight to London via Nairobi, for example, would open up East Africa's game parks to Australian tourists. Qantas currently does not have landing rights to Nairobi, the most obvious point for a stop. Negotiations with a number of other countries would be involved. Nevertheless the delegation believes that the necessary negotiations should begin however difficult they might prove to be. To consider re-opening a service to Johannesberg and to ignore the tourist potentialities of 'Black Africa' would be inconsistent with our current African policy and do little to encourage more Australians to visit, enjoy and appreciate the African Continent. 
It is too difficult for Australian tourists to get to Africa at the moment. The experience of this delegation was an example. The main bulk of the delegation had to travel to Nairobi via London.  Senator Knight  and myself, who left 24 hours later, had to go via Bombay, Aden and Addis Ababa over a period of two and a half days. Obviously Australian tourists would not want to travel the same route. The delegation believes that a direct air link by Qantas Airways Ltd to London through Nairobi would be very worthwhile. Qantas already has air links with Air Zambia. A number of Qantas pilots fly for that airline company and Qantas is training a number of the Air Zambian ground staff in Australia at the moment. 
The delegation looked at Australian aid and dealt with it in detail in the report. We looked at a water supply scheme project in Kenya that is costing us $3.6m over three years, at a ground water scheme project in Tanzania and at an agricultural research institute in Nigeria. The delegation recommends an extension of development assistance in Africa. We realise that 
Australia will never be a large aid donor in Africa; but if we look at the example of what we are doing in Tanzania, where only five Australians are involved, consider the benefits and the low cost, I think all honourable senators would agree that that is the sort of development assistance that we should support. 
The timing of the visit was important because it was prior to the meeting of Commonwealth Heads of Government at Lusaka. It is probably because of this that we had access to a number of heads of State, including  President  Nyerere in Tanzania, General Obasanio in Nigeria and  President  Bongo in the Gabon, and officials at high levels in the other countries that I mentioned previously. The delegation kept the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in touch with events as we saw them in Africa. All members of the delegation agreed on the advice we gave and on the position that the Government adopted at the Lusaka conference. 
There are a number of important issues mentioned in the report that I think the Senate ought to debate: The situation in Uganda today; the role of the Tanzanian army in Uganda; the elections that have just taken place in Kenya and in Nigeria; the role of the Soviet Union in Africa; and the situation in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia today. I hope that the Government will bring down a statement covering the southern African question and the Zimbabwe-Rhodesian question in the near future. Perhaps also we could debate this report at an early date when the Parliament resumes. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. The Minister will no doubt be aware that last Friday the applications closed for the construction of a hotel-casino in Canberra. Can the Minister give an assurance that if a hotel-casino licence is granted in Canberra the casino licence will be granted to an Australian company and not to a foreign company? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
What are the details of the total loans provided for commercial fishing projects by the Primary Industry Bank of Australia and the Commonwealth Development Bank. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
Do many wholesale supply firms set minimum amounts of purchases for retailers who buy their products, especially in the electronics, sporting goods and electrical appliances fields; if so: (a) what action is proposed to ensure that such firms comply with existing federal trade practices legislation; (b) does this practice cause difficulty for retailers in small towns, particularly in relatively isolated rural areas; and (c) what action is proposed to review this situation in order that action may be taken to prevent such practices. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation. The main purpose of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Amendment Bill is to amend the finance provisions of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949. 
These provisions relate to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority which was established for the purpose of designing and constructing the Snowy Mountains scheme. The scheme was substantially completed in 1 974, after a construction period of almost 25 years. Even now this represents probably the largest project in Australian history and the longest in terms of construction time. Until now the finance for this project has been provided by way of advances by the Commonwealth Government, repayable over 70 years. To date over $820m has been advanced by the Commonwealth to the scheme and $500m has been repaid in the form of interest and repayment of advances. Total indebtedness remains at about $960m. Given the level of funding required for the scheme obviously it was necessary for the Commonwealth to provide the finance. However, now that the project has been completed these arrangements are no longer necessary. 
The Bill before the Senate will allow the Snowy Mountains Authority to borrow money in its own right rather than be dependent on advances from the Commonwealth. The Opposition is not opposed to this policy, as it believes that the Authority should be able to operate- as is the case with most other statutory authoritiesaccording to normal commercial principles. Although the scheme has been completed the Snowy Mountains Authority still has a very important role to fulfil. Funding requirements are no longer large but close to $1 m is still required annually. Last year about $850,000 was advanced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to the Authority for construction purposes. The changes to the Act will allow the Authority itself to borrow and, as is the case with other statutory authorities, those borrowings will be guaranteed by the Treasurer. 
Although the Snowy Mountains scheme has been completed it still remains unique in Australian history, in terms of both its size and its construction period. Over 700 people are employed full-time in the scheme. The power stations provide valuable peak-load electricty to New South Wales and Victoria. All of the Australian Capital Territory's electricity comes from the Snowy Mountains scheme. The charge for this power is low compared with similar schemes overseas. In addition to electricity the scheme also provides valuable additional water for irrigation to both the Murrumbidgee and Murray valleys. The success of this project is a tribute to the Snowy Mountains Authority. The experience gained in it has meant that the staff involved have been able to provide similar valuable services in engineering projects in Australia and overseas. The Snowy Mountains Authority, the Snowy Mountains Council and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will continue to provide Australia and many overseas countries with a very important service. 
The other sections of the Bill relate to the standardisation of the Act to bring it into line with other statutory authority legislation. The provisions largely relate to officers and employees of the Authority. The Bill also allows the Minister to appoint an Acting Commissioner, or Acting Associate Commissioner. Previously such appointments were made by the Governor-General. Amendments embodied in the Bill will allow the Authority to enter into contracts worth up to $500,000 without the approval of the Minister. Previously the allowable limit was $200,000. The Snowy Mountains Authority is a great Australian Labor Party initiative and the Opposition supports this legislation. 
I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament assembled. 
The petition of certain citizens respectfully showeth 
Their support for and endorsement of the National Women's Advisory Council. We call on the government to continue to maintain the national Advisory Council and increase Federal Government support for its activities 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to an article by David Potts in the  Australian Financial Review  of 14 November entitled 'The pressure is on for higher State taxation'. Is it a fact, as stated in the article, that most States have this year brought down Budgets which significantly increase their recurrent expenditure in real terms and that if they wish to maintain their current levels of services they will have to start imposing their own taxation? Will the Commonwealth's approach to the Premiers Conference on 7 December be directed at facilitating and encouraging the introduction of State taxation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Were two Australians,  Mr S.  King and  Mr R.  Prosser, killed in the Zimbabwe-Rhodesian raid into Mozambique. 
2 ) Were these persons holders of Australian passports. 
Are any other Australians currently involved in the war of Zimbabwe- Rhodesia; if so, who. 
What steps can the Government take to prevent Australians from becoming involved in foreign wars as mercenaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
Has the Government examined the merits of establishing a separate Ministerial portfolio to cover the fishing industry, in view of the increasing participation of Australians in the commercial fishing industry and the considerable economic potential of the industry: if so, what action, if any, is proposed to establish such a Ministry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Has the Australian Government made any formal protests to the present Government of Iran regarding the arrest and detention without trial of Iranian citizens opposed to the present regime; if so: (a) what forms have these protests taken; and (b) when were they made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) What industrial chemicals are banned by the Depanment of Business and Consumer Affairs from importation because of their toxicity. 
) How are such bans enforced. 
