Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration inform the House of any developments that have taken place this morning concerning the industrial dispute involving the Transport Workers Union of Australia, the Professional Musicians Union of Australia, the Australian Journalists Association and the visiting American entertainer Frank Sinatra or, as the Minister may know him, Old Blue Eyes? 
I move: That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister would be aware of the confusion that existed in the community during the recent election campaign following upon the alleged statements by the Leader of the Country Party in regard to world parity prices for oil. Can the Minister inform the House as to the effect of the implementation of such a policy on our overseas passenger carrier Qantas Airways  Ltd? 
-Mr Acting  Chairman  - 
-I thank the honourable member for Angas. I have no doubt why other honourable members from South Australia did not speak after  Senator Steele  Hall. Most of them used to be members of the Liberal Movement. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has been missing all day. He was a very fond follower of the ideals and principles of the Liberal Movement as espoused by  Senator Hall  in this chamber. Coming so late into the debate one has an opportunity to assess the influence it has had on honourable members. After speaking to all people on our side of the chamber, I find that no one has been persuaded by the arguments put forward by the opposition. However, I have been given a new lease of life after talking to a number of honourable members opposite, especially those of the Liberal Party, who now realise how they have been hoodwinked by the Australian Country Party. The influence of the Country 
Party on the Liberal Party in this debate would be the greatest confidence trick ever played on any political party. This is the third or fourth time this matter has been debated by the chambers and this is the third or fourth time on which the Senate has shown no respect at all for the judgment of or the laws to be passed by the House of Representatives. What do the last 2 elections mean? No one in this chamber has put forward the view that the issue of electoral reform was not debated at the last 2 elections. We all saw the glossy photograph- we are not sure about their ages or their hair styles- of the 4 leaders of the Liberal and Country Parties. Each and every one of them in all their major speeches warned the people of Australia what a disaster it would be for the Labor Government to be reelected in Australia. The people answered them on 1 8 May 1 974 as they did on 2 December 1972 by re-electing the Labor Government. Obviously this was an issue. 
I think there is still some doubt on the Opposition benches as to who won the election. I was amazed to come across a document which I thought was a send-up of the Liberal Party. So I have not quoted from it before, but I shall do so now, seeing that honourable members want their views to be clarified. I think, judging by the front of the document, that there is some scheme going on in the Liberal Party secretariat to undermine the prestige of the Leader because it has a Pickering drawing of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden.  I did not quote from this document earlier because I did not believe it was a Liberal Party document. Some of the articles contained therein are 'The Best Vote for Years' by Bob Southey; 'How I Lost, Drew and Won Stirling' by Ian Viner; 'What's So Different About Queensland?' by John Moore; 'Why We'll Win Next Time' by Bill Snedden; and 'The Powers of Leadership'. 
The most interesting feature of the whole booklet is the article by  Mr Snedden.  I suggest to all honourable members that they should get a copy of it. It is a most interesting journal. At page 3 1 of the booklet in the article by  Mr Snedden  the following appears: 
I believe the Party's morale, stature and confidence are very high today. It is, perhaps, remarkable that this statement could be made in the aftermath of an election which, regrettably, we lost. 
My reading that quote will save the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  trying, for the remainder of this year, to get the Leader of the 
Opposition to admit that the Liberal and Country Parties lost the election. At the election in 1972 and again at the election in 1974 the Labor Party announced that there would be electoral reforms throughout Australia. How the Liberal Party can sit by and be hoodwinked and confidenced into going along with the Country Party is completely beyond me. 
What advantages are there to the countryside in having a 20 per cent electoral tolerance? I do not stand here to defend anybody who gerrymanders electorates, be he Tom Playford, Bjelke-Petersen or Vince Gair. What advantages are there? Country members say: 'We will not have to drive so far if we have a smaller electorate. We will not have to do a number of other things which city members do not have to do.' They are not the advantages that country people want. Someone spoke about going to Narromine. I went to Narromine before the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  was out of nappies. I suggest that the Liberal Party should take the lead from their  President  in Victoria and stand up to the Country Party. He was re-elected. People in the Liberal Party have faith in his leadership. Obviously what is required in the country are the things that governments can give them, not fewer miles for members to travel. The country needs schools and, of course, child care centres. The first time members of the Country Party heard the term 'child care' they thought it was an R-certificate movie. Obviously these are things that the country people need and this is the first Government that has ever thought about giving them these facilities. 
Let us consider the history of how the Liberal Country League in South Australia treated  Senator Hall.  What was his crime in South Australia following upon the Government of  Sir Thomas  Playford from 1932 to 1965? What happened to  Senator Steele  Hall in South Australia?  His  crime was not his policies outside his view- his progressive view- of electoral reform. People stood here and accused him of not bringing in the principle of one vote one value. How could he bring in the principal of one vote one value in the Upper House in South Australia that was controlled by the conservatives with a majority of 16 to 4? The only reason the conservatives did not have a majority of 20 to nil in the South Australian Upper House was because they would not run candidates in the other districts. That was the view held by the Upper House, the conservatives, the Adelaide Club, the 'Establishment' of that city.  Senator Hall,  the Leader of his Party, said that he could not go along with it and that there ought to be a recognition of the fact that the people were sick and tired of it. After the South Australian elections in 1968, when the Labor Party received almost 54 per cent of the votes but were defeated in government, 20,000 people marched from the parade grounds in Adelaide to Light Square to demonstrate against the iniquitous electoral system that operated in that State. In 9 elections held under  Sir Thomas  Playford 's Government, Labor won the majority of votes in 8 elections but it never governed during that period.  Senator Hall's  crime, for which he was convicted without trial in the Adelaide Club, was that he wanted the people to have a fairer distribution of the electoral boundaries in South Australia. He is to be congratulated for his stand on that issue, and we will reserve judgment on his stand on other issues. 
The final point I make about this issue is that I am amazed- perhaps I should say astoundedthat  Senator Withers  could come into this chamber and use his father as a spring-board in order to demonstrate some argument against the laws that are being introduced by this Government. 
It is a pity we could not let his father in to tell the truth about how he educated his son and what it means. Ours is the only Party that has been in existence since Federation. Ours is the only Party that is likely to continue. Ours is the only Party which truly reflects the thinking of the vast majority of the Australian people. I ask the members of the Liberal Party- the newspapers get to the country too late to let country people know what is going on- to come and join us. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the 
Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer to the announcement in the Budget that $4.4m will be made available in 1974-75 for a scheme to improve Adelaide's water. I am sure that the Minister appreciates the urgency of improving the quality of Adelaide's water which has been a scourge to residents of the city for many years. Can the Minister indicate when work will begin on this scheme, when it will be completed, what it will cost and what terms and conditions will apply to the assistance? 
It really does not take a great deal of thought to reply to the speeches which have been made by honourable members from the other side of the House in support of the amendment moved to the Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  last Tuesday. All those honourable members have talked about what is needed in Australia, the Liberal Party philosophy and how it protects individual freedoms. But over the past 20 months all the authorities, commissions and committees of inquiry which have been set up by the Australian Government have totally condemned the Government which was in control of this country for 23 years. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  talked about education and what we were doing to take away the rights of people-parents and individuals- to obtain the education they required. Surely no one in Australia can lay charges at the door of the Australian Labor Party, which has been in office since December 1972, because of what it has done for the education of children in this country. The only people who can lay charges against the Government are those who have not read the appropriations for education. We do not believe in an elitist- 
-I do not think the debate should be as restricted as has been suggested by honourable members opposite. They are talking about the activities of the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation. I think that we must try to analyse why they continue to engage in this House in the exercise of union bashing and try to solve problems which can be solved only in the industrial arena. Whenever a militant union emerges, it is always in the areas in which we have the most ruthless employers. If honourable members were to look at the history of the mines and the mining unions or of the shipping industry and the maritime unions they would appreciate my point. It follows that in areas in Australia in which there have been engaged people such as developers, militant unions will emerge. They emerged during the reign of the Liberal-Country Party Government in this country. 
I do not believe- as Henry Lawson would say- that the claptrap which has been put forward by the Opposition this morning is the real reason why it wants to bash the unions, nor do I see its attitudes or its venom being directed towards one union only. It has been the historical role of the Liberal-Country Party, unfortunately, to bash every union it can whenever it can and to oppress the working people who are not organised. It has not been the function of the Australian Labor Party, even though it knows a great deal more about the subject, to come into this chamber and engage in employer bashing in the manner in which honourable members opposite tend to want to bash those people who have organised themselves into trade unions. 
Honourable members opposite ought to be honest enough to put forward the real reasons why they are opposed to the activities of the Builders Labourers Federation. They are opposed because their backers- the developersare hostile about the fact that they have to pay full workers compensation to building workers. They are opposed to them because the builders' labourers want a wage of $124 a week for their 35,000 members throughout Australia. They are opposed to them because they have taken actions which have interfered with what the developers see as being in the best interests of Australia. If some of our so-called enlightened developers had been in Rome they would have put the bulldozer through the Vatican; if they had been in London they would have put it through St Paul's; if they had been in Leningrad they would have put it through the Hermitage; if they had been in Peking they would have put it through the Summer Palace. 
The resident wit-Lusher the gusher; the research officer for the Country Party- no wonder it has got no policies. If we want to talk about the activities of the builders' labourers I invite honourable members opposite to take their families around Australia and see those parts of the country that have been preserved because of action taken by the builders' labourers. They should take their families and their children around Millers Point and the Rocks area and Woolloomooloo and have sufficient courage to tell them who it was who saved those areas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member should come to the point of order. He is debating the issue. 
-The honourable member for Wannon reminds me of the wartime radio hero, 
First Light Fraser. The activities of the builders' labourers are not only the activities of an employer- employee relationship. As was pointed out in the National Estate report, this union, along with many others, has a conscience about what should be happening in this country to our national heritage. They have taken many actions to preserve lots of buildings and trees and areas of green which honourable members opposite ought to take their families to see, and they should point out who saved these areas. 
In 4 weeks time a gallery will be opened in Melbourne which will have photographs and drawings of all these areas throughout Australia which have been preserved by the builders' labourers. For the benefit of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  let us have a look at some of them in his State. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  ought to be careful he does not become a supporter of the bulldozer, because in an area like Mitchell that may not be accepted as being good policy. Have a look at areas like the Windsor Hotel in Melbourne, the Regent Theatre, Gordon House, Blanche Terrace, the Local Government Office, the CBA Dome, the parklands at Carlton and the City Baths; in New South Wales look at the Rocks area and Kelly's Bush and Woolloomooloo; in Tasmania look at Battery Point. All these areas have been preserved for the Australian community by the activities- and that is the term used in the motion- of the builders ' labourers. 
Opposition members talk about the deregistration of the builders' labourers and what a great move this was by the employers. Of course, provocation by employers in the building industry is rife. The people who ran Mainline were among the chief offenders in this area. Are Opposition members saying that Mainline ought to have been preserved from the activities of the builders' labourers? Who is right and who is wrong in that case? What does deregistration solve? How has the deregistration of the union affected industrial relations in the building industry? The 35,000 people who build the homes and multi-storey office blocks in this country are still financial members of the Builders' Labourers Federation. All that the deregistration has done is inflame the relationship that existed before the case took place. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said in this House on thousands of occasions, when governments learn to keep their noses out of industrial relations perhaps the unions and the employers will solve the problems. The attempt by the Opposition to paint the Government with the political leanings of the builders' labourers is a faint attempt to intrude into an area where both the employers and the unions have got to solve the problems. I consider that the people listening to this Parliament must be absolutely disillusioned by the activities of the Opposition in continuously taking up the time of the Parliament, not discussing the affairs of the country, not discussing the legislation which comes before the Parliament, but continuing to entertain the idea that this Parliament was instituted for union bashing. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
It is interesting to note the points which members of the Opposition wish to discuss in relation to the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Special Minister of State. 
We will remain friends because we are doing a lot for the honourable member for Riverina and his colleagues. We are educating their children, we are introducing all of the people in their electorates to the arts and we have also given them one of the finest leaders Australia has ever had. We are doing it bit by bit. Honourable members opposite will come to understand that. 
It is very interesting to note the point upon which the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  presented his argument to the House. It related to expenditure on child care. This is perhaps the first time that such a debate has been able to take place because on so many occasions in the past very little money has been allocated for that purpose. On this occasion, however, the sum of $75m has been set aside for the setting up of child care centres, with the emphasis on education, in the areas of greatest need. This is the crossroads between the people who sit on this side of the chamber and the people who sit on the other side of the chamber. Honourable members opposite would continue, as they did between 1949 and 1972, to spend money in areas not of greatest need but quite the opposite, that is, in areas that are affluent and that perhaps already have these facilities. 
As a member of this chamber who represents a disadvantaged area, an area of great need, I will fight to ensure that the principles upon which the present Government was elected to office in 1972 will continue to guide its policies. The money that is made available must be spent in the areas of greatest need. The principles laid down in the Karmel report and the principles laid down in the Social Welfare Commission's report on the ways in which these things ought to be done are the means by which the present Government will stay in office. Of course, they are the great principles that have been enunciated by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  ever since he took over the leadership of the Australian Labor Party early in 1967. Of course, they are the principles that have come to be accepted by the majority of the people of Australia. Those principles took us into government in December 1 972, they consolidated that position in May 1974, and, I predict without any hesitation, they will keep us in office for many years to come. So on the question of child care honourable members opposite ought to appreciate greatly what the present Government is doing for the women, children and families of this country. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks on the subject of overseas trips. I agree with the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  in that I cannot think of a more shallow attack upon a Prime Minister than to say that he goes overseas too much when problems are adding up at home and that the problems would not be so large if he were to remain here. What honourable members opposite have to understand is the philosophical difference between the approach to foreign affairs of their stale, conservative government of 23 years and our young, enterprising government of almost 2 years and the differences between their and our approaches to the people of this world. The Liberal and Country Parties never understood in all the years that they were in office the problems of Asia and the relations that ought to exist between Australia and Asia. They continued to build their hopes on the alliances that may have existed between ourselves and the United States of America, and ourselves and the United Kingdom. So it was always the case that previous Prime Ministers- in the last couple of years they were in office' the Liberal and Country Parties kept changing them, depending upon the actions of some of the members of their front bench- went running off to Washington and London and ignoring what was happening in. Asia, becoming frightened of what was happening in Asia and, of course trying to solve their problems with military intervention. 
The present Prime Minister has done a great deal to heal the scars that were left by the previous administration in Australia. The commencement of the Chinese trade fair in Australia tomorrow and the opening of the Australian trade fair in Peking some days ago are material evidence of the bonds of friendship that have been built between, ourselves and the largest country in Asia which the conservatives continually ignored for all the years in which they were in office. It is also evidence of the success of the policies of the Australian Labor Party led by the present Prime Minister. I do not think that any country has been ignored by us in the manner in which we approach our foreign policies. It has been made quite clear to the people of Africa, Latin America, North America, Europe and particularly of our own region- South East Asiathat we stand for self determination, that we stand for proper relationships between the government of our country and the governments of their countries, and that we stand for nonmilitary intervention and for the retention of friendship with the countries with which we have had alliances over a long period. 
They are proper, constructive policies which have been consolidated by the fact that the Prime Minister of this country, a person who is held in great esteem throughout the world, has been able to visit them personally and to speak to them at that level. It is rather beyond comprehension that people should come into this chamber and say, as a means of trying to criticise the present Prime Minister, that he travels too much. The only other point I would like to make about that is that I have been led to believe from inquiries I have made- I have not been a member of this chamber for very long-that whenever delegates are called for from the Opposition Parties for a parliamentary trip overseas there is never any shortage of candidates. Apparently the travel bug must also exist on the other side of the House. 
I do not want to be critical of the Government 's style of government and I am not going to be. The honourable member for Bennelong raised the question of political appointments being made by the Government. If kings can lose their crowns and popes can lose their thrones, surely public servants have to shift over occasionally for people from outside the Public Service. I think that the present Prime Minister has made some very excellent appointments. I think that his judgment in that area is just as good as it is in many other areas. I count myself among those he appointed during the period when I was serving outside this chamber. I know that this matter has been raised in the Parliament on a number of occasions but when one takes into account the fact that a political party such as the Australian Labor Party has been out of office from 1949 to 1972 for all sorts of reasons, including the actions of and collaboration between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the present Opposition Parties, one must concede that it only stands to reason that a Prime Minister coming into office after such a period would want to have serving under him a mixture of people he has worked with previously and people to whom he has been introduced after he has taken up his new post. That is very shallow criticism. 
I am quite sure that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  if he were ever to serve this country as Prime Minister, would follow the lead of the present Government in terms of such appointments. It is not as if anybody has been able to stand up in this Parliament and be critical to the degree of being able to say- I leave myself out of this category- that the Government is employing incompetent people. No one has suggested that. But if honourable members opposite want to present a case on that perhaps we can argue about it. The British system of having a political secretary in every Minister's office has been put up as being the ideal system. We do not want it and the Opposition does not want it. It might be a good idea in Britain. It may be a tradition in Britain, as is the appointment of parliamentary secretaries, but it is the sort of system which I think can be ruled out in Australia. Public servants are citizens of this country and they are subject to the Government of this country. If the Government of this country wants a mixture of people serving it, the Government of this country has every right to do so. 
I turn to the subject of the arts. A number of people have, unfortunately, said outside of this chamber and in this chamber that the Government can be judged as if the Prime Minister himself was travelling around the world buying paintings or as if, in effect, every painting or every object of art which the Government has purchased has become the subject of a debate in this chamber. Quite frankly, this chamber does not have the expertise for that. But this chamber ought to look at the conduct of the Council for the Arts or the body that may be set up by legislation to be put forward in this House in the future, to see whether it serves the community in the manner in which this Parliament wants it to serve the community. I reiterate what I said at the outset of this address: It ought to be done on the basis of need. If any criticism can be made of the actions of the Council for the Arts in the past, it is for the fact that the majority of the people of Australia have yet to be introduced to the arts. We are doing that by spending a great deal more money, by putting a lot more people back into the arts and by encouraging Australian artists. There can be no doubt that in the short term a lot more Australians are going to have access to the arts, access to a good education and access to good government leadership by virtue of what has happened since December 1972. 
-One would have thought from the remarks being made by honourable members on the other side that they were the economic masters of this country, but if one looks at the manner in which they conducted the affairs of this country between 1949 and 1972 and at the social scars that have been left on the community one can see that not only are they not the masters but they are certainly not students of proper economics. 
Before I get onto the remarks I wish to make in this discussion there is one feature on which I would like to comment and for which the Opposition Parties can be held wholly responsible and that is the complete political instability of the community since 2 December 1972. Ever since the Australian Labor Party was elected in 1972 the Opposition Parties have refused to acknowledge the right of the electorate to elect a Labor government. They continuously threatened new elections right through 1973, climaxing in an election in May 1974 when they were defeated and found themselves with a very slight majority, with the assistance of a couple of independents, in another place; they have continuously since May 1974 threatened elections. People wonder why industry does not have confidence and what sort of a future the unions, the work force and industry itself might have. The responsibility for political instability rests wholly and solely with the other side of the chamber. Honourable members opposite have to make up their minds. They have either to tell the community that they want an election or they are going to allow the people to elect a government for 3 years. If they do not do that then the instability which exists in the community is their responsibility. It is at their door. They have to answer for it. 
You are in Opposition here but I am now talking about the other place. In my Budget speech I defended the economic strategy of the Government. I pointed out that the Government had agreed on a strategy which was neutral in its fiscal impact. That is, it neither stimulated the economy to any marked degree nor was it designed to dampen down economic activity in any way. I still believe that this was the correct strategy. The Treasury strategy was widely publicised at the time the Budget was drawn up. In short, its budgetary strategy was devised to administer a short, sharp shock to inflationary expectations by a massive deflationary program. With unemployment increasing sharply at the moment, we can well gauge the impact a short, sharp shock produced by strong increases in taxation and severe cuts in Government spending would have had on the economy. The unemployment we are witnessing today is mainly the result of the exceptionally tight monetary policy that applied until very recently. This has shown once and for all that, whatever the merits of a tight monetary policy in cooling an overheated economy and dampening down boom conditions, it has no impact on curbing inflation. I think it is a justifiable criticism that the Government and the Treasury should have realised this earlier. I accept that the tight monetary policy was essential to cut back the volume of money in circulation which the previous Government had allowed to expand to disastrously inflationary levels. 
It was also necessary to prick the dangerous speculative boom that had developed in land and housing. However, with the wisdom of hindsight I feel that the Treasury should have recommended that the monetary screws be eased off some weeks earlier than they were. If we had relaxed the credit squeeze in a selective way, particularly in the provision of credit for housing, after the elections on 18 May, I think the economy would be more stable than it is today. Having said that, I repeat that the Government was justified in imposing the squeeze. Now it has about-faced in the face of a sharp contraction in the labour market. Any unemployment is a matter of anguish to a Labor member elected as a representative of the trade union movement. 
It is agonising to me that unemployment should be rising at the moment and that it will peak at quite a high figure in the new year. Even so, the level of unemployment that has been generated still falls far short of what would have happened if Treasury strategy had been applied. We are now facing up to a peak unemployment situation of around 200,000 people; if we had accepted the advice given by our official economic advisers we would be looking at unemployment of at least 500,000 people. This would have been the short, sharp shock required by Treasury to chop down inflation. We know now that even quite severe unemployment has no perceptible effect on inflation. If this strategy had been implemented, in February-March next year we would have been facing up to a huge army of unemployed with no certain effect on inflation. The Government deliberately came down on the side of humanity and rejected this drastic approach. I am confident that in the next few months the Government will be able to overcome the slackness in employment that is apparent at the moment. By acting to ease the credit squeeze, by adhering to a firm level of Government spending, and by selective measures to stimulate economic activity, I have no doubt that the Government can steer the economy back to full employment. 
With a sticky market for employment, it is worth considering the impact of the Opposition's policy of sharply cutting down Government spending. There is no doubt that a sharp cutback in Government programs in the Budget would have increased the numbers out of work quite substantially. I ask honourable members: If roads grants had been cut, if housing assistance to the States had been watered down, if sewerage spending had been reduced, if a host of other public works had been abandoned or deferred, what would have been the impact on employment? The maintenance of Government spending programs has cushioned the impact of the contraction in employment we are now witnessing. It sends a shiver up the spine to contemplate what would have been the result of cutting down on Government programs as sought by the Opposition. Such a policy would have been deflationary but not in the right sense. Its sole effect would have been to expand unemployment without in any way checking inflation. 
I concede that there is some scope for stimulating the private sector. The credit squeeze has caught the speculator, the greedy and the inefficient. It has also had an impact in many cases on firms which are reputable, which are not highly geared and which are efficient. We need to act to restore a high level of activity in the private sector now that the credit squeeze has largely run its course. Many suggestions have been made to boost this elusive factor of business confidence. The most widely touted has been the restoration of some form of investment allowance. The arguments for and against this sort of aid to business have been canvassed exhaustively over the years. It is extremely doubtful whether these allowances have much effect on the level of business activity. Certainly they are next to useless in reflating the level of business activity after a downturn in the business cycle. Perhaps a wiser course would be some reduction in the level of company tax as an effective way of stimulating investment in the private sector. This need not apply indefinitely; it could be applied in a counter-cynical way to give some relief and incentive to firms feeling the pinch through the lack of credit apparent in recent months. 
Turning to the consumer price index, I am sure that all members of the Parliament were shocked by the size of the increase for the September quarter announced yesterday. We had been lulled into a false sense of security by reassuring reports that the increase would be much the same as in the previous quarter. The actual increase represents an intolerable level of inflation and it is one that the Government has to bend every nerve and sinew to conquer. I feel that the time has come for strong Government action to force down directly the prices of items which make up the index. It was significant that the index showed some easing in the rate of increase in foodstuffs while the prices of household goods and the costs of services rose quite dramatically. I agree with a number of economists that the time has come for a very close look at the incidence of sales taxes and excise. The impact of these charges on the consumer price index is obvious; a certain way of getting the rate of inflation down, even marginally, would be to reassess indirect taxes. It might also be opportune to look at the prices of basic foodstuffs and see whether the time has come for some form of Government subsidy as an anti-inflationary measure. Admittedly there are huge problems in administering such a scheme because of the diversity of marketing methods. With all these problems it is timely that we start looking at the problems and potentials of some sort of cushioning of the impact of changes in the prices of essential foodstuffs on the consumer price index as the most widely accepted measure of inflation. 
-I rise tonight to add my voice yet again in support of the Government's policy in relation to areas of need in Australia for the provision of public libraries. When I talk of my own electorate or my own State, I am sure that many of the standards I quote and many of the instances I give can be related to many areas in Australia. including capital cities and other disadvantaged areas similar to my own. I am an unbending supporter of the Government's policy of looking after those most in need. In relation to my own area, instead of my speaking for 10 minutes we could have 10 minutes silence because Port Adelaide is a totally disadvantaged area which has no public library facilities at all, apart from the Port Adelaide Institute, which has a long and very interesting history of community involvement going aU the way back to 1851. Its services are now inadequate in spite of much hard work that is done by the people who run the Institute. Whilst there has been talk of an inquiry being conducted into the services that are required in libraries throughout Australia, it seems to me that in the disadvantaged areas, such as mine, there is no need for such an inquiry. There must surely be in Australia a modern library which can be used for the installation of such services in disadvantaged areas. 
The present Adelaide metropolitan situation shows a definite tendency for those areas which already have home enriched environments also to have public libraries. The information rich get richer and the information poor get poorer. This situation must be countered, and we suggest here an extension of the Karmel philosophy of compensatory action for the disadvantaged. All those honourable members in this House who have visited schools have now seen the results of the Karmel Committee. The Karmel philosophy is, in some instances, giving to schools for the first time- I am sure this is so in country areas and it is certainly so in disadvantaged areas- facilities which have not been seen in those schools before. I am talking not only of books but also of the whole spectrum of faculties which bring about individual self-development through a whole range of resource materials in print, audio and visual formats. But their expectations are doomed to frustration unless urgent action is taken now. The Government must commit itself to some financial action, as the present method of financing public library services is grossly inadequate. Even in South Australian areas that have public libraries, many years of insufficient finance have stunted resources, the services and the personnel. Only eight out of the 32 public libraries in South Australia are staffed by qualified librarians. A new method of financing will increase the existing amount to at least the sums expended on education libraries. 
A campaign has been launched in my own area by a group of people trying to round up support through all the service organisations, through radio stations, through letters to the editor, through the local Press, and even in the football budget on the day on which Port Adelaide was defeated, to bring about some support for the establishment of a library in our area. We even went to the extent of inviting people from our area to the South Australian Institute of Technology Levels Library to have a look at what a library is and what it means to the community. Three hundred people took advantage of the invitation. The 2 people in charge of implementing this idea, from the local Community Welfare Consultative Council- Gerry Govier and Arthur Mortimer- were able to entertain these 300 people from Port Adelaide, who came from an area which, as I said, has no library, to have a look at the most up-to-date facilities that can be provided for the public. 
If the honourable member does not want libraries in the country areas he does not have to speak. They organised the Levels Library demonstration to show Port Adelaide people what a library could mean to them and their families, apart from dispensing books. There was everything for everyone going on simultaneously in different parts of the library. There were films, pop records, opera, model railways, a library of toys, displays of art and ethnic cultures, jazz groups, talks on local history and counselling by a citizens advice bureau. It is the type of service which must be provided if the public library is not to suffer the same fate as the institutes of South Australia. It will require some regionalisation of the library services. The South Australian Library Association rcommends approximately 9 regions in the metropolitan area of Adelaide. However, whether the job is done by regional authorities comprising a grouping of local authorities, as is recommended by the Association, or whether the boundaries are drawn up in statistical, Commonwealth electoral or even football boundaries does not matter as long as historic and social communities such as Port Adelaide, are not cut up. Areas such as Taperoo, West Lakes and Woodville, as well as the centre in the Port, will also need things like bookmobiles. But the experts who are called in to have a look at what faculties are required in these disadvantaged areas throughout Australia should be able to lend their expertise to what is required by the people and by the schools. We need qualified community minded librarians who will form the hub of a whole range of services to be provided to migrant groups, community study groups, the house-bound, the institutionalised, the aged, orphans and the hospitalised, both young and old backward readers from socially and economically disadvantaged homes, service clubs, business and the rest of the community. These areas need these faculties quite desperately because, as I said earlier those honourable members who visit schools will have seen that for the first time schools are being given these library services. It is like teaching children to swim and then taking away the beaches when they are adults. If we do not give good public library faculties to the children to whom we are now giving services via the Karmel report, then of course there will be a great deal missing from their lives after they leave school. I should like to add my voice to the campaign that is going on in these disadvantaged areas for the establishment of fully equipped public libraries 
It would appear as though the House has adopted a very bi-partisan approach to this legislation which may affect many 'veterans', the term now used to describe those ex-servicemen and women who are covered by repatriation legislation. However, the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  did introduce into the debate a couple of points which I think ought to be refuted from this side of the House. I know that the argument about the economic management of the country spreads far beyond this Bill and into perhaps the traditional attitudes that may be expressed by the various political parties in this country. But, on behalf of the work force of this country we have rejected the argument that the economic standing of the country at this stage should stand in the way of a solid argument that can be presented for the benefits provided to veterans to be increased or uplifted to present day standards. So it is not an argument about whether the increases in benefits are going to be inflationary; it is a question of whether they can be justified. Those of us who sit on this side of the House say that they can be. 
Another point made by the honourable member for Indi was that we had put in the thin edge of the wedge by now calling the former Repatriation Department the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. Of course, that is not so. That cannot be done by any thin edge of the wedge. It can be done only by a deliberate action and no such action has been taken by the Government. In fact, the honourable member for Indi himself quoted spokesmen on behalf of the Government-  Senator Bishop  when he was the Minister for Repatriation and  Mr Barnard  -as refuting the allegations that had been made or the rumours that had been circulating about a breaking up of the Department. 
Like the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  I have no desire either to delay the passage of this Bill or to take up the time of the House unnecessarily. But I do think that it is important to relate the Bill to actions taken by the Government from the time it came to power in December 1972 until the presentation of this Bill and its forecast of what it intends to do in the autumn session. Taken together I believe that these are a true test of the attitudes of the Labor Government. 
It is fair enough to make the comment that there were those in the community who were spokesmen for some of the ex-service leagues who were suggesting prior to the election in 1 972 that the Labor Party as a government would not have as much thought for ex-servicemen as perhaps the opposing political parties would. That has not turned out to be the case. I suggest that repatriation is one of the areas in which all major political parties try to reach an area of agreement as to what should be done for people who have put up with the deprivations of having to serve in war and, in some cases, being prisoners of war. 
Honourable members will recall that in the autumn session of 1973 this Government substantially increased pensions and allowances for special rate and intermediate rate pensioners and general rate war pensions for the dependants of those whose death was related to war service, and service pensions. At the same time, we doubled the funeral benefit. We allowed war pensions to continue until the completion of full time education for certain student children and student children were recognised for service pension purposes regardless of age. A number of initiatives were taken, as I said, in the autumn and these ought to be related to this Bill. 
In the present Budget session, we have seen the introduction of free medical treatment for all Australian veterans who were prisoners of war. One action on which I am particularly keen, as I would like to eradicate from this area any debate, is the proposal that veterans who suffer the problem of cancer should be treated free of charge. I am pleased to see that this Bill proposes free medical treatment for cancer for all Australian veterans suffering from that condition. 
In addition, the Government is cognisant of the changing factors in Papua New Guinea. We have recognised that a number of people from 
Australia who served in our armed forces and who have made their homes that country should not be disadvantaged because of the changing political factors there. So, such persons residing in Papua New Guinea immediately before independence will be deemed to be resident in Australia for repatriation purposes. Further, decisions by a majority of members of each determining authority are to be deemed to be valid decisions. 
Looking at what has been done in 1973 and in. 1974 and considering the proposals for the autumn session of 1975, we see that the Labor Party has an extremely good record in maintaining adequate service payments and conditions for those people who served this country in past wars. 
The only other point I wish to raise concerns the proposal of which the Government has given notice with respect to the amount available by way of loan for the re-establishment of exservicemen and former members of the defence forces. The maximum loan will be increased by $2,000 to $5,000 for business loans and by $4,000 to $ 10,000 for agricultural loans. I do not know whether in the commercial sense those figures can be justified. Nevertheless, they probably reflect the traditional approach rather than reality. This action is taken again in accordance with the desire of this Government to look after those who served this country in time of war. With those few words, I indicate my support for the BUI. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the well known Melbourne preacher, the Rev. Gordon Powell, stated in Scots Church last Sunday that the only information about the Broadcasting and Television Bill to reach the public was coming through newspapers which owned the television stations concerned? Is the Prime Minister aware also that  Mr Powell  sent a copy of the text of his statement to 3 newspapers, that two of them published none of it, and the third, in publishing substantial parts of it, omitted significant paragraphs? Does the Prime Minister agree that this is an example of the very thing which the amendments to the Bill are designed to prevent? Will he assure this House that the facts about the Broadcasting and Television Act are put to the Australian people? 
I shall use this occasion to answer some of the ravings of the Opposition that have gone on in the House over the past few weeks on one specific subject,  although members opposite leave themselves open to be answered on numbers of matters. There would be some people who would say that some of the ravings should be ignored but as we record the proceedings of this Parliament for history I think we should also record answers to inferences and allegations made in this House against organisations outside the House because as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said- it was the only sensible thing he said in the 10 minutes he had at his disposal- we should be careful of the manner we use the privileges we are given as members of the House. This morning I shall inform the House about an organisation which, by inference, was condemned in this House by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  2 weeks ago. I refer, of course, to the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union. Honourable members will recall the honourable member for Mackellar reading through a whole list of names, the majority of which are unknown to any of us. In some cases I should think the members opposite do not know any of the people named. This was a list of people whom the honourable member for Mackellar alleged were members of the Communist Party who hold full time official positions with the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union. I wish to inform the House about this union and the part it plays in our community, and the reason we should be careful of our privileges and not bring industrial relations into the House trying to solve problems which can better be solved around the conference table by representatives of employers and employees. 
On several occasions in this House I have condemned the practice of union bashing. I do not intend to answer union bashing by becoming an employer basher because I have, throughout my life as a representative of trade unions and of the Labor Party, met many fine people who represent employers. In their jobs they are tough, dedicated people- just as tough and just as dedicated as those who take on the role of representing trade unions. When the honourable member for Mackellar talks about the Metalworkers Union he is talking about an organisation which throughout Australia has 183,000 members. It has 1 13 branches throughout every State of the nation. The honourable member read out a list of perhaps 15 to 20 names, but in the union there are 108 full time officials. The Amalgamated Metalworkers Union arose out of the amalgamation of the Sheetmetal Workers Union, the Boilermakers Union and the Amalgamated Engineering Union. In 1972 these unions took a decision to constitute the one amalgamated union. It has been a successful step. The Labor Party has been encouraging union amalgamations in Australia for a long time. This is a step which Opposition parties oppose. They do not understand the ramifications of having a multiplicity of unions in the industrial relations field. 
When in 1972 the move was made to amalgamate there were 8 formal objections from other unions of no specific political nature. They were unions representing all political philosophiesleft wing, right wing and middle of the road. After negotiations with all concerned, all objections were removed and there was absolutely no challenge to the registration of the enabling rules for the amalgamation which was to exist between 1972 and 1974. Each of these 3 unions which went to make up the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union in 1972-74 were, of course, substantial organisations in their own right. At the time of amalgamation in 1972 they had 163,000 members but in the following 2 years 20,000 members were added. The 1 13 branches of the union throughout Australia meet monthly. Each branch of the union can have eight or nine officers. All business of the branches is sent on to State councils which meet quarterly. The State branches send their business on to the State conferences which send their business on to the national conference which is held every 2 years. 
A significant feature about all the conferences of the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union is that written into the rules of the union is a provision that the majority of people who attend the conferences must be other than full time officials. The majority of people who go to represent the members at those conferences are what we term, in industrial language, rank and file members. The matter does not only stop at conference decisions. I hope that honourable members opposite will take time out to read what I am saying so that they will get some understanding of the largest union in Australia. Not only are decisions of the conference made by a majority of rank and file members but also decisions are subject to ratification back at the branch level. All decisions made at State conferences and national conferences are referred back to the 113 branches for ratification. So there can be no standing over the membership. There can be no justification for the allegations made by the honourable member for Mackellar. 
A very significant feature of the administration of this union which makes it perhaps the most efficient of all trade unions in Australia- this was news to me when I made inquiries about it- is that every quarter every one of the 183,000 members receives a card from his union which tells him his financial position in the union, his section of the membership in the union, his classification, the time of the next monthly meeting of the union, the name of the branch secretary and also the business which will be conducted at that meeting. Every quarter there is a summoned meeting of the union. All positions which are to be balloted at any meeting are listed on the card which the member receives every quarter so that every member of the union will receive notification by virtue of the card which is sent to him of what positions are vacant, when nominations will close and when the meeting will be held. He is also informed of the business which will be conducted at that meeting. No other union in Australia to my knowledge carries out such a comprehensive and complex system of involvement of the membership. Let us look at the effects of having an efficient organisation like the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union. The efficiency of that Union does not stop at the way it passes on information to its members. Let us look at what it does in the industrial relations field. It is estimated that by virtue of common law, apart from negotiations which might be settled outside of the courts, the Metalworkers Union gained in one year alone for its members through the courts $3. 5m in workmen's compensation. The influence of the union in the parliaments and the community is there for everybody to see. There are conciliation commissioners from the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union. There are government inspectors. There are people on the apprenticeship boards. There are members of Parliament from the union and there are people appointed to Government advisory panels. They are a very influential section of the Australian community and ought to be treated as such. 
I want to make one final point about how responsible the Metal Workers Union is. Let us look at the union's negotiations which took place in 1974- a troubled period for the Australian community by virtue of the inflation rate. It will be recalled that in December 1973 a claim for $30 a week was submitted to the employers by the union for a pay increase for all its members. After only 2 stopwork meetings to hear the results of negotiations with the employers an offer of $15 a week was accepted by the union. After acceptance of the $15 a week by the Amalgamated Metalworkers Union the courts, following agreements between employers and employees, reached a decision that would give workers under 118 awards in other industries outside the metal industry amounts of between $24 and $31 a week. That is an amount of $9 to $16 more than the metal workers settled for. The Amalgamated Metalworkers Union renegotiated its position and gained a further $9 a week. Again members of the union lost only 2 days by virtue of reports to the rank and file by officials. This is a very responsible organisation in the Australian community. It should not be an organisation which is subject to union bashing for political purposes in this House. It should be looked upon for the role it plays in the community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Could the Minister inform the House what devastating effects there will be on recipients of social welfare payments and patients in nursing homes, and indeed on nursing homes themselves, should a cutback in his Department of 8 per cent take place? 
-The subject of this debate, like the subject of so many other debates, is one upon which great judgments can be made as to the stands taken by the various political parties in Australia. Of course, no one can seriously suggest that since Federation the parties to which honourable members opposite belong, irrespective of what they have called themselves, have given the depth of thought to the people in receipt of social security payments or social welfare payments that the Australian Labor Party has given. A look at the standard rate of pension will show that there was a definite conspiracy from the election of a conservative government in 1949 until it was thrown out of office in 1972 to keep the standard rate of pension at about 20 per cent of average weekly earnings, as opposed to the Australian Labor Party's policy, which has now been achieved, of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Not only was it carried out but also it was carried out by design, as I will prove to those honourable members opposite who have nothing to do but to sit and listen. 
In 1 949, at the time of the defeat of the Chifley Government, the standard rate of pension was 22.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. In 1950, which was the first year of a conservative government, no increase was granted in the standard rate of pension. That was the first of 7 years during the period in which the conservative government was in office in which no increase was granted. So the percentage dropped from 22.7 to 20.7. A look at what happened during that period of 7 years- I am going to bore honourable members opposite to death by quoting the figures to them - 
The honourable member for Bendigo should take the figures home and show them to his constituents. Every time it appeared as though the figure was going to creep too much above the 20 per cent level the conservative government of honourable members opposite decided not to give any increase. So we find that in 1954 the percentage reached 21.1; that in 1955 there was no increase, so it dropped to 19.6; that in 1956 it increased to 21.2; that in 1957 there was no increase, so it dropped to 20; that in 1958 it was 21.9; and that in 1959 there was no increase, so it dropped to 21.2. And so it goes on all the way through. The only Prime Minister of the conservative government era who did not live through - (Opposition members interjecting) - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  I ask that interjections cease. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is entitled to be heard in silence and I will insist on that happening. 
Especially when I am making such a constructive contribution to the debate,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If honourable members opposite look at the history of the standard rate of pension throughout the period between 1949 and 1972 they will find that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  was the only Prime Minister of the conservative government of that period who did not reign over a budget year in which no pension increase was granted. So one can see that there was a deliberate conspiracy by the conservative government of that period to keep the standard rate of pension at about 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Another interesting fact of which honourable members opposite ought to be cognisant is that since the Labor Government came to power there has been an increase in the pension in real money terms of $ 12.75 a week. How long did it take the conservative government to grant such an increase? If one has a look at the money increases granted by the conservative government one will find that it took from 1952 until 1972 to grant increases totalling $12.75 a week. So I suggest that honourable members opposite were only using social welfare as a hobby because they had to accept it as part of their responsibility when they formed a national government. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  had the audacity to say in this chamber that some working people would prefer to receive unemployment benefit than to share the dignity of other people in this country of going to work. I reject that as being a theory of a conservative, reactionary party. It is one of the views which such a party has been expressing since the industrial revolution of the last century. They are views that honourable members opposite will continue to express while the parties they represent continue to exist. These are the views which, quite predictably, the Opposition Parties will present in 500 years time. And time and time again they have been proved wrong. 
What must happen if the community or the society is unable to maintain full employment? The former Government was unable to maintain it. This Government is subject to all sorts of eruptions in the economies of countries overseas and in our own country. If in a society full employment is unable to be sustained, the Government has some responsibility to look after those who are placed out of work. Honourable members opposite should not fire their arrows in this chamber as to the manner in which they would like to treat those people who are recipients of unemployment benefits. I invite honourable members opposite to go out to talk to these people and to see whether they do not want to go to work. It is our belief on this side of the Committee that the vast majority of Australians would prefer to go to work and to earn their living that way. They do not want to be the recipients of unemployment benefits. I can sympathise with honourable members opposite because so few of them have had to go to work. 
-I used to do a bit of that, yes. But it was quite an honourable profession. Most of the members of the Country Party stood at the end of the board while I was picking the wool up and watched; their backs were too weak for them to do this themselves. (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)- 
Order! I will not allow the Standing Orders to be flouted by constant interjections. I am issuing a warning. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  No point of order arises at all. The honourable member for Port Adelaide under the Standing Orders is entitled to be heard in silence. I have warned before that I am going to insist that that happens. I call the honourable member for Port Adelaide. (Quorum formed). 
I appreciate the bigger audience. The arguments presented on the standard rate pension can be directed to other payments being made by the Australian Government. Honourable members opposite ought to think seriously about the proposition which has now become their policy, that is, to slash all these payments by 8 per cent. Think of the nursing homes. Think of social welfare recipients throughout Australia. Think of the widows and children. In respect of all these, the Opposition parties are now saying: 'We should slash payments by 8 per cent'. 
I invite honourable members opposite to have a look at the Estimates and try to argue against them to support some sort of logical argument as to the way in which they would do these things. Be honest enough to tell us which specific area they would cut. Will it be pensions and allowances? Will it be payments in respect of aged persons accommodation? Those payments have been raised considerably. Will it be in respect of benefits or facilities for handicapped children? Between 1949 and 1972 the then Government parties became the parties of the raffle ticket. They told the charities to go and run raffles; that would solve all their problems. With this Government feeling as it does about assisting these unfortunate people in the community and taking some action to assist them, honourable members opposite say: 'Let us cut it out. Let it become the responsibility of the States. This should not be the affair of Canberra. Let us go back to talking about foreign affairs'. 
All of these matters are subjects of great substance. They identify the difference between a Government which cares for people in the community who are underprivileged, who may need assistance from the Australian Government, and a Party which was in power from 1 949 to 1 972, which had the opportunity to do something, but ignored it, and made the plight of these people worse. As I said at the outset of my address, the former Government engaged in a conspiracy to keep the standard rate pension at 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. This was done deliberately. It was done consciously. It was done with the full support of conservative members sitting opposite. This is one of the major reasons why when next we go to an election the vast majority of people will reject the old, tired thinking and conservative viewpoint that honourable members opposite have had in mind for 23 years. 
-The Minister for Services and Property would be aware that the senior partner of the Queensland coalition Government received 19 per cent of the votes in the last Queensland election. Could the Minister inform the House whether the same system, which denies both the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party a proper say in that State, will survive for the next elections? 
-Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether the Australian economy generally and business confidence specifically is being affected by the continued threats from the Opposition parties, particularly the Country Party, to force an early election by again blocking Government business in the Senate? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade is prompted by his recent overseas meetings. Could the Minister indicate to the House the extent to which overseas economic pressures are now affecting the Australian economy? 
-One is slightly amused at the suggestion from the Opposition that electoral reform is something that it now puts forward as a subject for inquiry by a joint all-Party Committee. One could imagine the members of the Country Party when they are in government saying: 'Now look, fellows, we cannot go too quickly with this because we have not discussed it with the Labor Party. We would like to get its views on electoral reform in Australia before we bring any Bills into the House, so that we have a consessus'. Quite the opposite has occurred in Australia. The present system has in some ways served us very well but in others it is overdue for reform. I do not think this will be very difficult. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  in a very unusual manner, was not specific in his criticism of matters contained in the amendments. He spoke of one matter- the registration of parties- and I will deal with that briefly. The registration of political parties in Australia for electoral purposes and the recognition of parties in the Electoral Act are long overdue. Those 22 sub-clauses of clause 21 to which the honourable member referred are not difficult to understand. They clear up a lot of the questions that would be asked if they were not there. The honourable member spoke about the 34 amendments. Included in them are the 16 amendments which were held over from the proposition put up by the previous Government, of which he was a member. 
I think we need to have a serious look at the proposition now being put up by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  There can be no doubt that it is the most comprehensive review of the Act that we have had for many years. As I say, it is long overdue because not only is the system not giving the results that it is meant to give but also it is being deliberately exploited, not just in some cases by the political parties themselves but by other groups and individuals who now see it encumbent upon them to make a farce of the voting system. I refer especially to the Senate election and to the May 1974 election after the double dissolution of Parliament. The vote in the Senate election was nothing short of an international disgrace when we had to wait so long before we could tell the rest of the world which party would govern. People must be amused by the fact that a party in this country can win 2 elections in the House of government- the House of Representatives- and yet not be able to maintain a majority in the Senate. I think the reasons for not being able to do so ought to be analysed. I do not think there is any need for a joint party committee to look at this question. 
The honourable member may have benefited from the previous procedures that were adopted. What we are saying now is that the procedures being put up by the Minister in this Bill are fair to all those poeople and parties who wish to register or to run for a position in public life. It is interesting to note that in the 1974 election- I think this was a most sophisticated attempt to manipulate the system- a group calling itself the Independent Political Research Organisation conducted a very serious and comprehensive survey on the effects of having large numbers of candidates standing for the Senate election. They discovered that every additional candidate over a certain number- say, 40 in New South Wales- made the ballot paper far more complicated. They worked out that it resulted in an increase in the informal vote of 0.5 per cent. Of course, they estimated that the Labor component in that 0.5 per cent was about 80 per cent. What the group set out to do was to try to manipulate the system in such a fashion that the voting took on a class bias. I use the term because it is the term used by experts. Sometimes we on this side of the House are accused of having an element of class bias, but when I look at the honourable member for Moreton I lose mine. 
If one looks at the result of the exercise conducted in New South Wales one realises why it is rubbish to talk about a joint party committee and why it is so urgent to bring this legislation into effect. Honourable members should look at the results in New South Wales of the informal vote at the Senate election and see where the highest informal vote exists. Not only does such a system deny 12 per cent of the people of New South Wales a vote but also the vast majority of those people live in Labor electorates. This is why honourable members opposite want to continue with the present system which, if it continues, will be completely unworkable. Members of the Australian Country Party, to a lesser extent, ought to be interested because where people are unable to obtain how-to-vote cards the informal vote also rises. We are penalising people throughout Australia largely on a class basis in relation to their rights to vote for the upper House. There can be an informal vote of between 2 per cent and 3 per cent throughout Australia for the House of Representatives and between 10 per cent and 2 1 per cent at a Senate election. I find it difficult to understand why honourable members opposite try to justify such a system and why they are prepared to tell people in their electorates that the differential of 8 per cent, or 9 per cent, or 1 5 per cent of people who vote informally between the elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate can be justified by saying: 'That is all right. That is a good system. We are winning by it. ' 
In the electorate of Sydney, which has a 78 per cent preferred vote for the Australian Labor Party, there was a 20 per cent informal vote in the Senate election. One can go all the way down the list of New South Wales electorates until one gets to Bradfield, which happens to be the safest 
Liberal electorate. Then one is getting down to a 5.6 per cent informal vote. To some people opposite that might mean that it is a good system. It may mean, of course, as it turned out in May 1 974, that the Labor Party was denied a majority in the Senate, not because people did not want it but because of the system, because of the informal votes for Senate candidates cast in the safe Labor electorates. In the electorates of Sydney; Grayndler, the seat of the Minister for Services and Property; Hunter; Chifley; Newcastle and Cunningham- it will be a long time before the Liberal Party holds any of these electorates- the proportions of informal votes were: 20 per cent, 1 6 per cent, 1 5 per cent, 1 4 per cent, 1 4 per cent, and 1 1 per cent. Thousands and thousands of voters throughout New South Wales were denied their rights not because they did not want to vote formally, not because they did not want to understand for whom they were voting- they wanted a Labor Government, which they returned in the House of Representatives- but because people were exploiting the system, the old archiac system by which if there are 73 candidates one has to vote one to seventy three. 
Not one honourable member opposite from New South Wales can tell me the order in which he voted for Senate candidates in New South Wales. 
-I would be very doubtful whether the honourable member from Queensland could tell me the order in which he voted for the 25 candidates in Queensland. 
-If they wanted to vote informally for the Senate it is difficult to understand that they did not want to vote informally for the House of Representatives. 
But the people today are a different generation from those who voted 20 or 30 years ago and if one looks at the system in other years it throws up the same result. Wherever there is a large number of candidates, as evidenced by all the analyses that have been done, especially the very expert analysis by the Department of Services and Property and by an observer, Malcolm Mackerras, there is a larger informal vote. In New South Wales, where there were 73 Senate candidates, no one knew for whom they were voting or in what order. All one knows is that one votes for one's team. Perhaps one knows for whom one votes first and second but from then on it is a guess to make sure that one numbers the ballot from one to seventy three and that nothing happens in the meantime to make it an informal vote. There were 73 candidates in New South Wales and a 12.3 per cent informal vote. Victoria had 48 Senate candidates and an 11.1 per cent informal vote. Queensland had 25 candidates and a 6 per cent informal vote. It dropped because of the number of candidates. South Australia, with 38 candidates, had an 1 1.4 per cent informal vote, and so it goes on through the list. 
The top percentages of informal votes of course are always in Labor held electorates. This is why honourable members opposite do not want amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. This is why they say that the proposed system is unfair. If people want to vote one to seventy three, under the amendments to the Act that we are proposing they can do so. The people who do not want to go to that trouble and who want to vote only for the number of candidates required- in the case of a double dissolution, 10 candidates for the Senate and one for the House of Representatives- may vote depending upon their likes and dislikes of political parties. The overwhelming majority of people vote for one of two teams. People do not want to vote one to seventy three. One cannot justify having to vote one to seventy three. One cannot convince the people that that is a good system. The present system, is being exploited. 
Who argues against drawing for positions on the ballot paper? No one argues about drawing for positions in the case of the Senate, but members of the Opposition argue in the case of the House of Representatives. This is what they are opposing because the Democratic Labor Party is starting to lose its influence- the Party that used to endorse everybody whose name began with 'A'. The list of people in this chamber shows that half way down the list one is less than one-third of the way through the alphabet. Some people are in this House and some people are out of this House because of the system under which the names of candidates are placed on the ballot paper. People like Fred Daly are advantaged and people like Young are disadvantaged because the names are listed alphabetically. So I find it difficult to understand the opposition to the proposed amendments. 
Now I come to postal voting and voting facilities at hospitals. What a system we have here. Give us a list of those people who had a postal vote at the last House of Representatives election or the last Senate election. The theme of honourable members opposite was: 'Prepare your applications and get them out. It does not matter where people are, whether they were on holidays, in hospital or in an old age home, we want to exploit the system'. This is what honourable members opposite are again saying in opposing the amendments that are being put up. We are saying that the electoral officers or their representatives should go to those places and the people should vote and put their ballot paper straight in the box. There should be no more of this farcical situation of candidates trying to beat each other by sending out thousands and thousands of applications. One of the strongest features of the amendments that have been put forward is the provision of voting facilites for those people who are unable to reach polling booths. Under the present system we must wait 10 days after an election for postal votes to come in, so that we have speculation in the newspapers every day about which Party is going to govern Australia. We see news stories to the effect that there are six more votes to come from New Zealand, five more to come from Coolangatta, two more to come from the United Kingdom, seven more to come from France or somewhere. What a stupid system it is that those opposite try to justify and under which they want the Australian people to live. 
There is much in these amendments that requires very little of my support because other speakers from this side, of course, will touch on them. One of the simple ones relates to the authors of advertisements on radio and television. This rule has been broken so many times that we have come to accept that the provision has already been amended. In respect of signs and so forth, it is just a recognition of common sense that should apply under this Electoral Act. The strongest argument that one can use in putting forward the view that this optional preferential system should be adopted is not that it gives anybody an unfair advantage because it does not, and it is not that it cannot be followed because it is a simple system of voting for the number of people that are required in the ballot, while still allowing a voter to go on to give an exhaustive vote if he wants to. The strongest proposition that one can put forward in this chamber is that the present system is being exploited to the detriment of the voters themselves because they are not getting the government they voted for. In the May 1974 Senate election the government that the people got was the result of the number of candidates who stood in New South Wales, because 12 per cent of the voters in that State were disfranchised under the system which operates. The votes of hundreds of thousands of voters were not counted because of the system. Almost all of those people, I would say, would vote only for the team they wanted and perhaps one other if we introduced the system that is part of the amendments which have been moved by the Minister. I hope they speed through both Houses and become law in this country as quickly as possible because democracy is based on the justice of systems such as the electoral system and this is far more just than any previous system. 
-Can the Minister for Defence indicate to the House the improved conditions under which officers of the armed forces retire today as compared with the conditions that existed prior to the election in 1972? 
-The most monumental blunder Australia has seen in recent months was the attempt by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to become leader of his own political Party. 
I went very well, and 12 votes in the Labor Party are worth 100 in the Liberal Party. I take much more interest in a speech made a couple of weeks ago by the honourable member for Wannon. I want to quote a paragraph from the address that he made to the congress of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in which he said: 
The world in which we are a significant part may not survive. Economists, politicians, theorists press their own explanations and  solutions. With  rare exceptions, they have one characteristic in common. They underestimate the serious nature of our ills, the complex of social, economic and political factors that might yet destroy the best form of government yet devised. 
Any honest attempt to debate this question would, of course, enable the honourable member for Wannon- if he were being honest- to put forward again his views about the effect that overseas economic problems are having on Australia. The only country to which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  could refer was New Zealand. If we had the same political system as that of New Zealand perhaps we would not be facing the problems we are facing today. New Zealand has no Senate. It has first past the post voting and it has a Labor government- all the things that we hope will one day will become part of the Australian scene. 
An attack was made by members of the Opposition on the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  If 1975 shows us anything it will show us that the Opposition has not improved. It took 3 speakers to flush out the honourable member for Wannon to come to the table to try to defend the views that he puts forward around Australia. One of the things Opposition speakers have said is, of course, that they will sit down with the trade unions- if ever the Opposition comes back to government- to solve the problems. I have had a talk with a number of trade union representatives about this proposal. There is no significant enthusiasm on behalf of the trade unions to sit down with the Liberal and Country Parties. One cannot talk about unemployment unless one talks about the traditional attitudes of the political parties of this country to the working people. One can take the cynical attitude to the Leader of the Opposition when he says: 'Well, if there were an election held and some of the Labor people were defeated they would have to go back to the factories to work'. That is a true statement by the Leader of the Opposition. Some honourable members on this side ofthe House do come from jobs where we had to work. The background of members on this side of the House is quite different from the background of the members of the Liberal Party. Our ties are, of course, with the working people. 
Members of the Australian Country Party are interjecting, so let us talk about the attitude of the Australian Country Party in any of the Parliaments in Australia and its attitude to any of the conditions which we have tried to improve through the trade union movement or through legislation affecting the lives of working people in country areas. At every level the Country Party, with the support of the Liberal Party, has attempted to frustrate any improvement in the working conditions of the people in the rural areas- whether the improvements be in the form of wages, conditions or accommodation. On every stand the Country Party has been significantly consistent in its attitude to the working people in the country. One cannot take just the attitude of a political party on the question of unemployment. One has to take other things into account. The education of the children of the working people of Australia has been greatly improved by this Government. Members of the Opposition have spoken about what they have done for the people of Australia. The honourable member for Wannon, in the speech to which I referred earlier, said: 
In a liberal society personal objectives will fall into 2 categories. There are snared goals, security, and maintenance of national independence. 
There were 510 Australians killed in Vietnam. That is national security as far as the Liberal Party is concerned. The honourable member for Wannon stated that he was concerned with the opportunity for work and was concerned for those who were disadvantaged. I will tell the Opposition how concerned it is for the disadvantaged. It was in government for 23 years and in its last year in office it set up an inquiry into poverty. There could be no greater condemnation of the Liberal and Country Parties of this country than that after 23 years the only thing it could do was to set up an inquiry to see how many poor and underprivileged people there were in this country. Members of the Opposition speak about their attitudes to the trade unions and the working class. Will the Opposition sit down with Clarrie 0'Shea the man it put in gaol for four or five weeks until he nearly died? Will the Opposition sit down with the people it has spent hours and days in this Parliament, year after year, condemning? The trade unions are not interested in sitting down with the Opposition because they cannot trust it. 
The Opposition wants to oppose every proposal that is put forward in Australian parliaments. Members of the Opposition speak about unemployment overseas not affecting Australia. Again, I reiterate the figures given by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The unemployment figure in Germany is 5 per cent; in Belgium it is 5.4 per cent; Denmark 9.2 per cent; France 4.3 per cent; Italy 5.3 per cent; Ireland 8 per cent; and the United States of America 8.2 per cent. Of course this is the problem. The honourable member for Wannon is quite correct in the speech he made outside the Parliament. He should not be so dishonest when he comes into the Parliament as to present his views about the problems that Australia is facing. Again I want to follow the line put forward by the Minister for Labor and Immigration who has done more for the working people of Australia than any previous Minister for Labor. He has introduced the National Employment and Training Scheme and the Regional Employment Development Scheme. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke about rural relief. It was the greatest fraud ever put upon the Australian taxpayer in the history of Australia. That scheme produced golf courses and rose gardens, as can be seen by driving around the country towns. There was no social contribution at all in rural relief and now because there must be some constructive element in projects for local government areas the Country Party supporters are crying out for rural relief. They are the ones who manipulated it. 
Let us have a look at what has happened since December 1972 when the Labor Party was elected to office. There has not been one week of one month in one of the 2 years in which we have been in government during which spokesmen from the other side have not threatened to hold an election. Every week, every month, Opposition supporters are saying they are going to use the numbers in the Senate to kick this Government out of office. How can any government operate, how can any government make plans to run this country, if it has to face a continuous barrage of threats to block money Bills in the Senate where the Opposition parties have the numbers? The Bills cannot be blocked in this place because the Opposition does not have the numbers here. Look at the dismal contribution which has been put forward by the main speakers on the Opposition side today who talked about unemployment. They have absolutely no feeling. We on this side of the House come from the working people. We have our ties with the working people. We talk to the trade unions. We understand the social problems created by unemployment but we also understand the things that go hand in hand with it. We are building community health centres. We are building child care centres. We are improving the living standards of people around Australia, people, including the underprivileged, who were ignored during 23 years of conservative government. 
What a farce it is when honourable members opposite take up the time of this Parliament by raising a discussion such as this. As everyone on this side of the House would know it is just a complete sham. I suspect that we will have to put up with this sort of thing every day throughout this session. The business of this Government will be frustrated not only by unnecessary debate but also by the continued attempts of the Opposition to disrupt Government business.  Mr Snedden  says: 'I do not know whether there is going to be an election. I do not know whether  Mr Fraser  meant it when he said is not going to run against me'.  Mr Fraser  says: 'I will see what happens. I do riot know whether there is going to be an election'. They do not know whether there is going to be an election in their own Party and they do not know whether they are going to try to force an election again on the people of Australia. They belong to a party which has caused us to fight 3 elections in  2lA  years. That is their idea of the role of the Parliament in Australia. They should not sit in this place and try to make people in Australia believe anything else. 
I believe that for the rest of the parliamentary sitting we are going to have to put up with all this nonsense about the Opposition's reported feeling which has built up since December 1972. The present Opposition parties did not have this feeling between 1949 and 1972 when on no fewer than 3 separate occasions they forced masses of people into unemployment to cure what they thought were their economic ills. There was no attempt to camouflage what the then Opposition was trying to do. They set out to cause unemployment and that is exactly what they did. Plans such as the NEAT scheme which have been introduced by this Government should have been introduced 20 years ago. People have been saying that everybody must now be trained at least 3 times in their lifetime. This is the only government which has attempted to retrain the working people in this country under the present Minister for Labor and Immigration whom honourable members opposite say has done nothing to contribute to the lifestyle of the Australian working people. I conclude with the remark that the trade unions and the working people do not trust the Opposition parties. They do not want to sit down with them. They want to see us put into operation in Australian life all the things that we have promised. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
-One of the difficulties in a debate of this nature obviously is the fact that most members of the Parliament- and I talk of members on both sides of the Parliament- do not understand the relationship between candidate and Party, party and business and /or trade union, and all those elements and the media. Without looking back over the history of campaigning in Australia there can be no doubt that we will head into great problems in this field if something is not done about it. Added to this aspect is the standing of parliamentarians in the society in which we live. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has done a great deal to assist members and to lift the standing of members. I believe that a great many more of us ought to stand up to argue the role of the parliamentarian and the work that we do. Parliamentarians should be beyond any suspicion at all. There can be little doubt that whilst the present system prevails there will be great suspicion not only about political parties and machines but also about parliamentarians themselves. 
It is all right for members to say that they go out and raise their own money from their own supporters in their own electorates. But the party which wins or loses each electorate, I believe, in a national election, is not determined by the campaign in the individual electorate. In some country electorates it may be from time to time where the candidate can become very well known; but this is not the case in the cities where the vast majority of electorates are. Very few local campaigns win or lose elections. An election is won or lost by the massive propaganda which is put across radio and television. This is completely outside the hands of the candidates. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  objected to the term 'agent' and the role the agent would play in terms of the new Bill. If we substitute the term 'campaign director', it would become obvious to us all that we are talking about the people who for decades have been running the campaigns in our electorates, our States and nationally, on behalf of the political parties. 
My criticism of the BUI is that it does not go far enough. I would have no donations at aU to political parties or to candidates. I think all the money that is used to educate the people about policies of the various political parties ought to come from the public purse. There should be absolutely no suspicion about the source of funds for members of Parliament or candidates for Parliament. We are going to head into trouble. There is some evidence to suggest that campaigns have been assisted by vast sums of money. Incidentally, I have heard all the allegations from the other side of the House about how much money the Labor Party had in 1972. 1 ran the campaign for the Labor Party in 1972 and no one has come within $600,000 of the amount we raised. AU the talk about Sim and $ 1 .5m held by the Labor Party that year is absolute nonsense. However, I do recall the campaign of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who lost his seat in 1969 and spent the next 3 years as the candidate- which was a valid exercise- in winning it back. But there is no way in which the candidate for the Australian Labor Party who was an outstanding politician, Norm Foster, could compete with the avalanche of money and propaganda that was poured into the electorate of Sturt. When one pulls on the Bonython family in Adelaide one runs into a fanbit of trouble. 
As I said, my criticism of the BUI is that it does not go far enough. The attitude of the Country 
Party, which has been espoused by its Leader as far back as October 1 973, is recorded in the Hansard of that date. It is made perfectly clear, in his own words, that  Mr Anthony  is opposed to the declaration of political donations. Also, he wants to make them tax deductible. This would mean that a major company donating moneys to any of the political parties would really only be paying half the amount of the donation. But there are many problems about the divulging of donations and making an accurate assessment of whether all the donations have been put on public display so people can make up their own minds. 
Let me say a few words about the multinationals. I do not have a phobia about them or the role they play but they do hold some danger to countries like our own.  Major Australian  companies hold similar dangers, I suspect These are matters of which we ought to be aware. I think we would be doing ourselves a favour if every member of the House, not as members of a specific political party but as persons who have been given the great privilege of coming in here and representing electorates, were to clear the air in regard to political donations. Members from the other side of the House have said it is untrue to say that in 1974 the Liberal and Country Parties were rolling in money and the Labor Party was battling to raise funds. But if one looks at the 26th Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board it will be seen that wherever it was able the Board ascertained the time taken up in broadcasting political advertising on metropolitan and country radio for the 1974 elections. The Australian Labor Party spent $90,000 and our opponents spent $210,000. 1 do not believe these to be accurate figures; I think a great deal more money was spent that has not been divulged. In television throughout Australia, the Labor Party supposedly spent $290,000 in the 1974 election campaign and our opponents $900,000. Do not tell me that the Opposition parties have so many old women raffling eggs that they can raise that sort of money. Just in one series of" advertisements that were used on television in Victoria alone $138,000 was spent. These were called the Sam Holt advertisements and were the brain child of that now well known character in Australia, John Singleton, who seems to be the darling of the Liberal Party at the moment. These advertisements included the one showing the Latvian woman telling us about the fears she held for the future of Australia. 
The raising of funds is going to become a growing problem in Austrafia. Whilst the playing time will not be greatly changed with the advent of colour television the production costs will go up immeasurably. So political parties will have to go out and find a lot more money than they have found in the past. Where are they going to find it? They will not be able to get it from their supporters in the electorates. One is flat out raising enough money in one's electorate to put out how-to-vote cards and pamphlets. So the campaign directors or the agents, as they are called in the Bill, will have to devise means whereby they will be able to go out and raise these vast sums of money. 
What are we doing in the field of advertising? Because we are reasonably immature in our attitude to advertising, especially political advertising, we are falling for all the advertising card tricks in the world. We are not looking at whether we can educate the Australian people on proper policies; we are falling for the advertising gimmick. No one is clear of that charge. The Labor Party has used such gimmicks and the Liberal and Country Parties have used them. The Australian Democratic Labor Party used them back in the mid-1960s when it showed Chinese soldiers marching across the Sydney Harbour Bridge. It should be the responsibility of this Parliament to devise media laws and electoral laws that will involve the Australian people in becoming conversant with the point of view of every political party. But, because the advertising agents tell us that the best way in which to persuade someone to buy a particular commodity or to vote for a political party is by way of 30- second scatters, we are putting on all the nonsense in the world. A person like John Singleton and all his mates can march up to a political party and say: 'If you want to win this election this is the way to do it: Forget about telling someone for 10 minutes that you have a good policy on a peace zone in the Indian Ocean or that you support equal rights for women because that is not the way in which to win votes'. So there are 2 things that we have to do about the electoral laws in Australia. 
We are putting on absolute nonsense. The 30- second advertisement is not only nonsense but also the most expensive way of advertising because it has to be played on a lot more occasions than would have been the case under the old system when television was first introduced into Australia and everything produced by the political parties was done in terms of explaining policies to members of the public and allowing them to judge logically which was the best party to vote for. But now the commercial television stations do not want 5-minute political speeches because they say that the people will switch from their station and will not come back to it. They want the 30-second scatters. So we have been forced into using them. The only organisation which has retained a sensible attitude to the manner in which political parties ought to go about their business is the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which demands certain proper content in the political advertisements it allows the political parties to run. 
Not only in the commercial sector is the Australian Labor Party, which is the largest political party in Australia, only receiving something like 24 per cent of the complete exposure given to political parties at elections but also the ABC has a policy of giving political parties equal time so that the Liberal and Country Parties get exactly the same amount of time as the Australian Labor Party. Perhaps that is the way it should be in that respect. But when one switches over to the area in which money is spent one finds that the Labor Party is falling further and further behind. The multi-nationals or the large companies are certainly going to have an increasing role to play in this field. I may go out, as we all may go out, to raise money for how-to-vote cards, pamphlets, and a slide to be shown at the local drive-in, but they really have little effect on how people may vote in the electorate in which that is done; they are going to vote on the national issues. So the people who are running the campaigns from the central offices are the people who determine which members of Parliament will sit on these benches. They are the ones who go out and get the money. 
An honourable member may stand up in this chamber and say quite indignantly: 'I am an honest man. I have never been a party to going out to get money. I do not know where the money comes from, but I think that the people who give it are entitled to give it for whatever reason it may be given'. I have seen what the Minister has said previously about having to look at the proposition of government funded campaigns. But members of Parliament really do not know what their campaign committees are doing, or from where the money is coming or for what reason it is given. There may be a perfectly legitimate reason for a company to support one party or the other. It may be because of a party's policy. But there is always a grey area. People are always suspicious because whatever one does someone will say: 'That company must have donated to that political party'. Large sums of money are involved. The Liberal and Country Parties spent $ lm on television coverage in 1 974. What will it be in 1977? Will it be $2m? Where will the money come from and for what reason will it be given? Perhaps the money will be provided because some major companies wish to get rid of the Labor Party? 
The honourable member would do well to listen. To my knowledge the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd officially does not make any political donations. I do not have any knowledge that it has made any donation officially to any other political party. But BHP may be opposed to having to go before the Prices Justification Tribunal on the number of occasions that it has been forced to do under this Government. It may be that BHP will change its policy on political donations and support substantially the Liberal and Country Parties which, after the next election, undoubtedly will have a policy for the abolition of the PJT. Are we to say that that is a source of corruption? Is doubt to be thrown on every member of the Liberal and Country Parties because of the actions of BHP? Everyone knows why Chifley was defeated in the great campaign of 1949. He was defeated because the banks poured into the campaign the greatest amount of money that had ever been poured into one election campaign in order to get rid of the Labor Government. 
-That is true. Chifley had a policy on the banks. The banks in return gave lm to the Liberal Party in that year. The campaign did not run for 2 weeks and 3 days which is the traditional length of a campaign in Australia; it ran for months. All honourable members will recall the campaign run by John Henry Austral. It was the greatest propaganda campaign conducted without television. The sum of f lm was given to the Liberal Party. Is it corruption because the banks wanted to come in and support a policy? If we are to go halfway, as is suggested by this Bill, of course all donations should be made public; there can be no doubt about that. There should be no grey area. At least members of the Parliament ought to stand above the suspicions of the electorate about who supports political parties. There is no way of completely overcoming the problem. There are ways of course, as has been proved in the American scene, of going around the laws. One can always employ smart people to see how one can get around a law and make a donation or give free broadcasting time. 
In 1972 when the late  Sir Frank  Packer thought that things were going bad for the Liberal Party, he was not content only to make his donations or to assist the Liberal Party wherever he could, but he started putting 5 -minute free editorials on Channel 9 and talking to more people in Australia than anyone else was able to do. He was never given a licence to run Channel 9 as a voice for the Liberal Party. Honourable members may say: 'It is not fair because when we are in government we have people working for us, Press secretaries and so forth'. That is a pretty poor armament when it is ranged against the Frank Packers, the Warwick Fairfaxes and the Phillip Joneses of the world who never deviate in their political support and who run the media of this country down a straight line behind the Liberal and Country Parties. I do not think that the Press secretaries and the working journalists in this Government are any real armament against that sort of political force in the field of the media in Australia 
The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  read out a great deal about the role of the multi-national companies throughout the world and the disgraceful involvement of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation in Chile. Not only did that company spend US$1 m on its involvement in Chile and involve the Central Intelligence Agency, but it made an offer to  Dr Kissinger.  The company was as bold as to make a US$1 m offer to  Dr Kissinger  to involve the United States in some takeover of the Allende Government in Chile because the company did not happen to like the Government. So some of these forces are buying the government of the day. 
I rather like the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I do not think he contributes very much to the House, but I do Uke him. But it may be that one of these days a major company will want a smart candidate in Griffith and they may decide to replace the honourable member. They can do it under the system if we allow it to grow. Money will be the determining factor and we will aU be held in suspicion about what is going on in Australia. We ought to look at what is happening and how we are to survive. 
If honourable members opposite want people to think we are part of some plot, that we are being supported and that on the basis that where there is smoke there is fire all the allegations that are being made are true, we will continue to be criticised and they will not only be doing the national Parliament a great disservice but also they will be doing themselves personally and the electorate and Australia a great disservice. The political parties will survive under a better system than we have at the moment. 
The Minister asked me not to speak for too long so I want to conclude on these points. It is very important that the Electoral Act of Australia and the media laws of Australia are structured so that the political parties are putting over a view which is doing something to lift the consciousness of the Australian people. The Australian Government, not long after it took power in 1972, gave 18-year-olds the right to vote. Do honourable members opposite want the John Singletons of Australia to be the determining factor of how those young people progress politically? Do they want them to look at 30-second ads as though they are looking at an Omo, Rinso or some other kind of commercial, or do they want people to get up and debate the issues so that the electorate can determine what is right and what is wrong? 
It is extremely important that members of this Parliament and people outside think seriously about what is going to happen in Australia if these laws are not altered. As a first step information about the moneys that are donated ought to be made public. Also, we ought to be looking at the media laws to make sure that some decent political content is given out to the electorate. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to recent suggestions that an election should be held before the Parliament has run its full 3-year term? Has he any reason to suppose that the verdict of the people would be accepted on the next occasion when it has been so clearly rejected on the previous 2 occasions by the Liberal and Country Parties? 
I do not want to prolong the debate for too long. I wish to say a few words about the advantages of this House and people throughout Australia giving greater consideration to the usage of rail as a transport system, both for freight and for passengers. As the Country Party members push for higher fuel prices in Australia, rail will become more relevant to the transporting of people and freight. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs will remain silent. 
-It is all right,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  made the point- I think this would be accepted by all those who have followed the discussion on this Bill in this House and prior to its presentation to this House- that with the election of the Labor Government in 1972 came a new approach to Australia's railway problems. For years we had seen an acceptance of the old system of rail throughout Australia- a system which was condemned universally and a system which was held up by the lack of initiative of the then Government from 1949 to 1972. Of course, throughout the world we are now seeing demonstrated an acceptance of the view that there has to be a greater reliance on rail as a system of transport. It is important that honourable members understand what all this means. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  will be well informed after he listens to what I have to say. 
I have spoken to members of the trade unions represented in the rail systems throughout Australia. Honourable members might be interested to know that since 1955 no fewer than 18 000 workers have been taken out of the rail system of Australia. There are now 65 000 people working in all rail systems throughout Australia. I think it was proper for the Minister to acknowledge particularly those people who  worked on the Commonwealth Railways which is to become the Australian National Railways Commission, a name of which I think we can all be proud. I took particular note of the reference the Minister made to the work being done under very trying conditions by the people who work on the now Commonwealth Railways between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie and between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. There are thousands of them. They do a magnificent job. It is the most efficient, the most effective and the most profitable rail system in Australia. None of them vote for the Country Party and they are all members of their respective trade unions. They have a lot to offer in ideas about the way the rail system should operate. 
The Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail link, which has been brought about largely on the initiative of my colleagues the Minister for Transport and the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  is going to be a great innovation in the rail system of Australia. The unions accept as a fact that there is no single cause for the complete fall off between 1955 and 1975 in the work force once employed in the rail system in Australia. As the honourable member for Darling Downs pointed out, dieselisation has had a lot to do with it. as has mechanisation. 
-We all are. We think that sometimes the honourable member is very good. The longest haul by the old 38-class locomotivesfrom Sydney to Albury and return- was considered to be a long commission for any locomotive at that time. Of course, the new diesels now run for 24 hours a day for 2 weeks on end before they need any servicing or inspection. The unions accept that. Of course, one of the things that has held up any rationalisation of the transport system in Australia has been the belief of the Opposition, particularly the Australian Country Party, in the god of private enterprise. Everything had to be done by private enterprise. It is about time the Liberal and Country Parties realised that private enterprise does not invest in things that it considers may be unprofitable, lt is not just the rail systems which it may consider to be unprofitable and which have been the responsibility of the various governments of Australia; it is also the research which has been required to build a rail system in Australia and the money that has to be invested. There have been instances for all of us to see of governments in countries throughout the world in which private enterprise has run the rail system having to invest millions of dollars in order to save the system, improve it and put new technology into effect. 
In years gone by it was argued that the railways should be run by private enterprise. It is now complained that we are taking over the States. I do not know how people can stand up in defence of the present system and say that it is a good rail system and something of" which we ought to be proud. I think that there should be bipartisan agreement that things have to be improved greatly. It may interest the members of the Country Party to know- they are not very well informed- that the first 2 people to suggest that the Australian Government should take over a rail system in Australia were  Sir Henry  Bolte and  Sir Robert  Askin. They wrote to the then Prime Minister of Australia, John Gorton, and asked him to take over the rail systems of their States. 
-I am grateful to the Minister for the reminder that  Sir Henry  Bolte demanded it. They were not only the Premiers of States but also Premiers of the States which had the largest rail systems in Australia. 
Honourable members opposite should judge their leaders and leave it to my colleagues and me on this side of the House to judge our own. I understand that honourable members opposite are about due to have another change. It may be that we will have to look upon the' rail systems of Australia as being unprofitable businesses for many years to come, but I think that those of us who have looked at the rail system throughout the world believe that that is no longer a criterion for the establishment of an efficient and effective rail system in Australia. The fact that at present we are losing collectively $200m is something that has to be looked at and worked upon. Nevertheless it may be something that we will not be able to overcome completely. It is a question of whether we want a rail system. Incidentally, no one benefits more from the subsidies that are paid out by the various governments through the rail systems than do members of the Country Party. We on this side of the House do not happen to represent some of the rich landlords that members of the Country Party represent. We do not represent the Elder Smith or the Goldsbrough Morts. We were put on this side of the House by the wage and salary earners. 
One of the problems with the present rail system, of course, is the use made of rolling stock. The States must keep their eyes on their own merchandise. A van that belongs to a particular State- in this case let us say Victoria- that leaves Queensland to travel to Western Australia is reported on repeatedly as it moves through each State, and 40 per cent of the vans are sent back to their home States empty after reaching their destinations and dislodging their cargoes. It is a great use of a rail system, is it not, when 40 per cent of all rolling stock is sent back to its home State empty after having been reported on by each State through which it moves? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was saying that one of the difficulties about the efficiency of the rail system in Australia is the fact 40 per cent of rail vans are now returned to their home State from their destination empty. That leads to a great deal of inefficiency within the system which could be overcome by a national rail system such as that envisaged by this Bill. The implementation of such a system will need the co-operation of the States, obviously, but it is something to which we can look forward in the long term. The only government which eventually can overcome the great financial problems of the railways system is, of course, the Australian Government. (Quorum formed.) 
I thank the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  for calling for a quorum.  His  only contribution to this House is in calling for quorums. He is very much like the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  They do nothing but interject, take points of order and call for quorums. Their contributions to the real issues affecting Australia are, of course, absolutely nil. The honourable member for Gippsland plays a very leading role in the tactics adopted by the Country Party. I understand that tonight the leaders of the Country Party and the Liberal Party have met to try to decide whether there should be a Federal election. The only reason that they would call for a Federal election at the moment, of course, would be to .save the skin of the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  because there has been set in motion, which is the appropriate term to use. in a debate such as this, tactics to get rid of the present Leader of the Opposition and to replace him with the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. What progress has been made in the creation and operation of a land commission program in South Australia? At what price will the blocks be made available to young home seekers? Will the land commission scheme stabilise the price of land in South Australia? Finally, what States are now participating in the land commission and is there any reason why the scheme should not be extended to the whole of Australia? 
It is interesting to note that the Opposition always tries to attack any diversification of the media in Australia. It never uses the name of Fairfax, Jones or Packer. It is frightened out of its wits at the thought that someone else who represents a different point of view may one day have a significant ownership in the media. The sooner that happens the better. I am sure the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  will clear up any misconceptions about the views that have been expressed by the honourable member for 
Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  about the situation in Adelaide. I am not altogether happy with the applications for the fourth commercial radio licence in Adelaide. Of course, my own view is that the South Australian trade union movement exclusively should be given the licence so it can express a view against the media which every day attack the Labor movement in that State. 
However, I rise this morning not to speak on the matter of the media, although I would be happy to, but not to let the week pass without mentioning the most significant political event that has taken place since the House adjourned one month ago. I refer of course to the demise and to the shifting from the office of Leader of the Opposition to the back benches of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  -an event which is worth mentioning in this House because the right honourable member for Bruce, in spite of the fact that he represents a political Party other than mine, is a colleague of the other 126 of us who sit in this House and obviously something ought to be said about the events that led up to his political assassination. As in most tough businesses- and I suspect that politics is as tough as any of them- a certain amount of loyalty and comradeship is necessary for the political parties and for the individuals in those political parties to survive. When we look around to try to find what the right honourable member for Bruce could have been guilty of it is very difficult to pinpoint the reason why 37 members of his Party would throw him out of office. He almost became the Prime Minister in May 1974. A couple of hundred more votes in 3 seats would have made him the Prime Minister, not the Leader of the Opposition. 
We seem to be dictated to now by the computer. Because the Press of Australia with its various market research teams tells us that he may not be popular with the sample of 2000 people who were asked questions we find that the political parties in Australia no longer have room for a gut reaction to politics but merely want to be dictated to by the computers, the market research people and the John Singletons of the world and make their decisions based on what they say. So we find the right honourable member for Bruce, who not only almost won the elections in 1974 for his Party, who worked harder than any other member of his Party throughout that period - 
I can understand why the honourable member is a bit touchy. He happens to be one of the persons who have reached a recognised position as a result of the change of leadership. We are all aware of the part he played in it. Because the computers tell the political parties- and remember that 2000 people of 13 million were asked the questions- whether a leader or a political party is popular or not the Liberal Party jumps, aided and abetted of course by the pushing and stabbing of the Australian Country Party. So the Liberal Party is now going to live with this fact. It will have to live with it because the same thing that happened to the right honourable member for Bruce will happen to the present Leader of the Liberal Party, because the market research teams, whether they want to or not, will also say that he is not popular with the Australian electorate. Then the Liberal Party will have to get rid of him. 
I am just concerned that a once great Party, the Liberal Party, is no longer able to deal with the proper business of its Party. It is bringing all politicians and all political parties into disrepute because of its actions over the past month. Throughout the 2 weeks which led up to the assassination of the honourable member for Bruce we saw 30 pieces of silver being shuffled around like a political football. No one wanted to hold them for too long. It is significant that after the honourable member for Bruce was defeated we had 30 shadow Ministers. Perhaps each shadow Minister took one piece of silver because that is what happened in the Liberal Party - 
Now there are because the Leader of the Opposition - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! Before this point of order is taken I remind the House that Standing Orders allow the person who occupies the chair to take certain action against honourable members who raise frivolous points of order or who take points of order which in fact are not points of order. I call the honourable member for Hotham. 
-I thought that if it were good enough to be in the Bible it would be all right to be in Hansard. I withdraw. Let us have a look at the role of the honourable member for Bruce and at the role of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Members of the Liberal Party have elected a person who they say will lead them to victory. As I say, they will be dictated to by the market research teams and by the computers. They will be puppets at the end of strings as people tell them whether they are popular. What was the role of the honourable member for Wannon? Since his election we have heard people saying that now there is a new Leader that they will have to be loyal Liberals and support their new Leader. That principle hardly applies to the honourable member who has been elected Leader. Did he give loyal service or lip service? There is a fair bit of difference. In an interview with Michael Willesee not long ago, when asked about the role of  Mr Snedden, Mr Fraser  stated: 
I think  Mr Snedden  has performed well. I think he is performing well, as I believe that  Mr Snedden  must be and will become Australia's next Prime Minister. 
These are the words from the person who, since  Mr Snedden  was elected Leader of the Liberal Party in 1973, has not let up for one instant in trying to take over the role of Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinThere is no substance in the point of order. That is a code of conduct which, in this House, is sometimes honoured and sometimes not honoured. 

-Throughout this disgraceful period we saw the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  depicted in a cartoon in Melbourne as sitting in the middle of an open telephone book saying: 'I am just looking for another name to whom I will be loyal.' The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  was dispatched from the flat of the 'Godfather' and then dispatched to South-East Asia and disgraced as the show went on to see who would be Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. I believe that the role of the honourable member for Bruce in this House has been honourable. He has worked hard for his Party. He did not deserve the action which was taken by his Party in replacing him with the honourable member for Wannon. Are the honourable members asking for miracles from the honourable member for Wannon? He has not changed. As someone once wrote, a dinosaur will not change his spots. Let us look at his role in education. Who almost made a complete fiasco of the Karmel Committee legislation which came into this House in 1973? It was the honourable member for Wannon. Schools in Australia almost missed out on $500m because of the role the honourable member played in this House. 
Then he was given responsibility for industrial relations. 'He said that employers ought to ask themselves what kind of people they wanted in . charge of the trade union movement'- as if it is the responsibility of the employers to decide and to elect who will run the trade union movement in Australia. Those views are rejected unanimously by the trade union movement. Of course in foreign affairs the honourable member for Wannon has always been a hawk- conscription, intervention in Indo-China, and all the things which stand for the late 40s, the 50s and the early 60s, all the old attitudes and old philosophies. The Liberal Party now expects that the views being expressed by their new Leader will, in some miraculous way, attract back to their fold the thousands and thousands of voters whom they need to win the next election. My prediction is that if the Liberal Party allows itself to be guided by the machinery of the market research teams it is making a very sad mistake. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I am not influenced by the arguments put up by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who is the spokesman for the Opposition on this subject. It has been absolutely astounding to me that the electoral laws of the Commonwealth and the States have refused to recognise political parties. It is beyond the ego of anyone in this chamber to believe that he is a member of Parliament because of his outstanding talents. We are all here because we happen to carry with us the endorsement of our respective political parties. 
I am speaking for myself in all due humility. I challenge the honourable member for McMillan to run at the next election without his party's endorsement and see how he gets on. The laws of the country ought to recognise the reality of the situation. The argument has been advanced that perhaps troubles could arise because the Chief Australian Electoral Officer is the one who has to decide who is to carry what name. The Australian Labor Party has carried its name since 1890. It has received threats from breakaway groups like the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The Liberal Party of Australia has been threatened by groups such as the one mentioned by the honourable member for Curtin, that is, the Liberal Reform Group. But what has been the eventual result of the threats from those minor groups? Both of the socalled political parties to which I have referred have disintegrated. The matter could be overcome easily if the Liberal Party of Australia were to take to itself its correct title, that is, that of the Conservative Party. The Australian Country Party is quite safe because it is such a disreputable group that no one would want to take its name. I do not think that we are going to experience the problems enunciated by the honourable member for Curtin. 
There are almost 40 countries throughout the world which give to political parties the right to place on the ballot paper alongside the name of a candidate the name of the political party for which he is standing. People in Australia are inundated throughout political campaigns with material showing them photographs and the political affiliations of the House of Representatives candidates endorsed by the respective parties in the electoral divisions and the Senate candidates endorsed in the States. We chop off access to this material 20 feet outside the polling booth. Why not allow the people who have been looking at this propaganda for the weeks, months and in some cases the year leading up to the election to have it before them in the polling booth in the form of a ballot paper which would give a display of not only the candidate but the political party to which he is attached? 
There seems to be some unknown reason, which certainly has not been given by spokesmen on the other side of the chamber, as to why they maintain that this cannot be done. It seems to me that perhaps, like all their other arguments, the argument on this occasion is that they see some advantage for the Australian Labor Party. I would accept that. I think the Australian Labor Party has the most respectable name of all political parties in Australia, but that  is  no argument for the Liberal and Country Par- 'ties opposing people being able to identify more easily on the ballot paper the names of the political parties that we represent and that put us in this chamber. 
Honourable members opposite have been talking about something that is hypothetical and about something that has never happened in Australia. It is something that the Australian Labor Party has never encouraged. The most obvious exercise that has ever been undertaken to ensure that many candidates contest a ballot in order to bemuddle the people was undertaken, of course, during the Senate selection that was conducted together with the House of Representatives election following the double dissolution in 1974 in relation to which a political research team discovered that the Australian Labor Party would lose 80 per cent of the additional informal votes for every candidate above the number of 40 who ran at that election. A number of independents ran, taking the total number of Senate candidates to 73. We saw the disgusting spectacle of a 12.3 per cent informal vote being cast in New South Wales. More than 12 per cent of the people of New South Wales have no say in the Senate. The people of Australia wanted to see reflected in the Senate election what happened in the House of Representatives election, that is a Labor majority. The Australian Labor Party has never encouraged the running of a number of candidates because it always acts detrimentally to it. 
I turn to the objections which have been expressed to the registration of political parties. 
One could go on for ever saying that we ought to recognise the reality of the situation. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  has said: 'All you are going to do is to make the incumbents even safer'. The reality of the situation in Australia is that there is basically a battle between the conservative reactionary forces, represented by the Liberal and Country Parties, and the forces of the Labor Party and the Labor movement. There has never been any other political struggle in this country in spite of the emergence of some smaller political forces. No election, apart from those at the height of the Australian Democratic Labor Party's popularity when it split away from the Labor Party, has been determined by those events. So we ought to look at what happens to political parties in the future. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  said that it will mean new parties will be running candidates for certain seats at the next election in order to obtain the right to distribute preferences. Under this legislation they will have to held a certain number of candidates before they can register and they will have to pay deposits. 
It has been said that some people will not want to be associated with a political party. Those of us who sit on this side of the House, who are endorsed by the political machine we representthe Australian Labor Party- and who are put here by the hundreds of people who go out and man the polling booths and who raise money for the pamphlets that are put out and the advertisements, want to be identified with the political party that we represent and want that identification to go right into the polling booth and on to the ballot paper. We want the name 'Australian Labor Party' to appear alongside the names of those who represent us. 
Honourable members opposite should not try to push under the carpet something of which the honourable members who sit on this side of the House said honourable members should be ashamed, that is, the informal vote. I wish to point out that the informal vote is something that affects us more than it affects the conservative parties. When the exercise was conducted in 1974 of running a large number of candidates it was done with only one purpose in mind, that is, to see that the Labor Party did not get control of the Senate. Those who ran it knew very well that the Labor Party was going to be returned in the House of Representatives; so they ran many candidates for the Senate to try to defeat that very purpose. The people running in teams for the Senate can be identified more readily by the teams and not by their individual names. Those of us who sit on this side of the chamber are keen to see that happen. We are very keen to see the registration of political parties in this country. We are very keen to see these laws brought up to date with what in effect takes place in Australia, what is recognised by the Australian public. 
Honourable members opposite ought to look closely at the provisions of this Bill. They should not be frightened because this clause is 6 pages in length. I know that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  said that he had had a look at it in depth, but he probably had a look only at the numbers on the pages. If honourable members opposite look at what it provides for they may see that it fits in with a recognition of even the Australian Country Party. This is an extremely important matter to the country and to the conduct of this Parliament. We owe it to our political parties and to our political supporters to have our names taken with us right into the polling booths. I support the measure, particularly the clause, very enthusiastically. 
I just add my voice in support of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  One area of electoral reform which has to be looked at very seriously by all those of us who are involved in politics is the application of postal voting. There can be no doubt, as a result of the common form which has existed over the years, that people who consider themselves smart electioneers have been able to manipulate the manner in which they are able to get people to cast postal votes. Conditions exist under which people are eligible for postal votes. I say 2 things about this. Firstly, many people who cast postal votes perhaps do not want to vote at all but are coerced into voting. Secondly, many people who cast postal votes are not eligible to do so because they do not comply with the laws set down on the postal vote form. One has only to look at the postal voting figures for the elections of 1972 and 1974 to think that an epidemic had hit Australia. By looking at the figures concerning postal votes that were cast one can see how expert the political parties of Australia are becoming at going around hospitals, nursing homes and old folks' homes trying to make people vote when in fact they do not want to vote or they have an excuse for not voting. 
This one does not refer to school holidays. In New South Wales in 1972 2.49 per cent of the vote was postal. In 1974 the figure was 3.94 per cent. The postal vote in Victoria in 1972 was 3.06 per cent and in 1974 6.27 per cent. In Queensland the figure increased from 3.55 per cent in 1972 to 4.75 per cent in 1974. In South Australia the figure increased from 2.90 per cent to 5.25 per cent. In Western Australia the figure increased from 2.60 per cent to 3.63 per cent. In Tasmania the figure increased from 3.58 per cent to 4.95 per cent. There is no doubt that the people involved- not just the political parties but all candidates- are becoming increasingly aware, particularly in the marginal electorates, of the importance of postal votes. There can be no case or justification in this country for waiting so long after an election to decide who has won and who will govern Australia. 
We were ridiculed throughout the country in May and June of last year because we could not decide, because of our system of voting, who may or who may not have won the election. This system can be applied fairly.- There may be other measures which have to be looked at in the years ahead, such as elections being held every 4 or 5 years on a particular date so that snap elections cannot be called. These things can be looked at in the future. In looking at the present system it seems to me that we have perhaps to be considerate of the people who may be involved in postal voting, to be considerate of the people who have put up with others going around canvassing in the hospitals and nursing homes and, as I say, be aware of the fact that candidates may be keeping forms from a previous election which they just post out hoping that the person concerned still needs a postal vote. I suggest and predict that the figures I have read out tonight from the States will continue to grow and people will become professional postal voters. That is the way the present system can be manipulated. I consider that what we are putting up in terms of having a new form and in terms of closing the poll on the night of the election is something reasonable and quite acceptable to the Australian community. 
-One always has to look closely at amendments moved by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  because obviously somewhere one will come across the ideas of the Australian Country Party. Although the Country Party gave him the idea it did not give him the explanatory notes. A little earlier I said that the thing we have to be more careful of than almost anything else in the campaigning period leading up to an election is the growth of postal voting which has occurred around Australia, obviously in breach of the present Australian electoral laws. To set up an established and permanent register of postal voting of course takes it one step further. It would mean that postal voters obviously could be canvassed between elections. It would mean that they would not be encouraged to go to the polling booths and it also would mean, if one wants to look at it in bold terms of the voting patterns of those people who live in the remote areas, that the Aboriginal people perhaps would be denied a vote altogether. 
A number of us on this side of the chamber are not too happy about the facilities that might be made available or the pressures that might be applied to Aboriginal people voting in remote parts of Australia. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  whose division was mentioned tonight by the honourable member for Curtin, is not in favour of setting up a register of postal voters in his electorate. Under our laws people ought to be encouraged to go and vote at the polling booths. There is a provision under which people can obtain a postal vote if they are ill or too far away from their electorate to vote at a booth. They have plenty of notice about this. Of course our complaint is that postal votes come in long after the booths are closed and Australia and the rest of the world has to wait to see who is to govern this country. 
Of course under the Opposition's proposal a returning officer on the night on which the poll closes could say: 'There is only 50 votes difference between the sitting member and the candidate for the other major political party'. He would immediately look at the postal voting register to see how many people he had not received votes from and would have an immediate check on whom he could get in touch with to go out and see those persons to make sure that some son of postal vote was recorded on behalf of those people. Then he would make sure that there was some evidence that the votes were posted before 6 p.m. or 8 p.m., whatever is the time specified in this Bill when it is finally passed. 
There can be no doubt that it would be a major step backwards in electoral law to set up a register of any specific section of the voting public of Australia. Does the Opposition want a register of those in nursing homes, a register of those in hospitals, a register of those in army camps, a register of those who milk cows at 6 o'clock in the morning or a register of Catholics and a register of Methodists? We have electoral rolls and there are provisions, which apply fairly, under which people can obtain a postal vote. We say that Australia has to wait far too long for the return of those postal votes to get a decision for the country. We are asking for the time to be shortened. I am sure that every honourable member on this side of the chamber would oppose vigorously the imposition of any register of any specific section of the community, of the electoral public, under the electoral laws of Australia. 
-Firstly, I do not recall having said that people in remote areas have plenty of time in which to get their ballot papers. I have a far better understanding of the way in which elections are conducted in this country than to make such a statement. I served my apprenticeship in remote areas. I know about these areas, in spite of the views that may be held by the honourable member of the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  about where we all come from. I come from the city, and if I look like I do I apologise to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-I do not mind the cap fitting at all. I feel quite honoured to serve a city electorate. The Government is doing so much to assist city electorates. Those people who are crying about the system never seem to try to dissect the differentials between those who may be entitled to postal votes and those who are not; nor do they try to dissect those sections of the community which in total are entitled to postal votes. We are not talking about just those who may live further than 5 miles from a polling booth. We are also talking about the manner in which people canvass the votes of the sick and the elderly. Should an election be forced again this year in the quite undemocratic fashion in which it was forced in 1974, and should postal voting be conducted in the way in which it has been conducted in the past, one can just imagine the role that will be played by the majority of doctors throughout Australia, in the light of their attitude to Medibank in trying to refuse the benefits of Medibank not only to all Australians but specifically to the 1 250 000 people who are not at present covered by health insurance. One can understand the role that will be played by doctors in the forcing of postal votes at any future election that may be conducted. Nevertheless, there will not be an election before the introduction of Medibank, and Medibank will be well accepted when the next election is conducted. 
How can people justify what happened in 1974 when we all sat around twiddling our fingers to see who was going to govern this country? It is not just a question of what people are entitled to do under the laws about getting a postal vote. In a nursing home of 30, 40 or 50 people one only has to mention the word 'vote' and the whole place goes into turmoil, because elderly people become very concerned that they may have done something wrong or that they have forgotten to do something. People in hospitals are continually being barraged by representatives of the various candidates and the various political parties who are offering to assist them to obtain a postal vote. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said that we on the Government side of the chamber take a partisan approach. I think we are taking quite a bipartisan approach, because each candidate- especially those of us who have won our way here eventually- knows how best this system can be manipulated. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  knows that very well. One only has to look at the increase in postal voting in his electorate to see how well he is setting up a register of postal voters in his electorate. The honourable member for the Northern Territory gets an 84 per cent postal vote in the Northern Territory, which I think speaks volumes for the type of assistance and the type of expertise that is provided to him by the electoral office. Sometimes the volume of postal voting may depend upon how much notice of the election is given. In 1972 a great deal of notice of the election was given. People knew within a week or two when the election was going to be conducted. But in the Northern Territory when very little notice was given of the 1974 election- no one could have considered that the Senate was going to be so stupid as to block a money Bill- the postal voting in the Northern Territory increased by more than 12 per cent. So postal voting facilities were available to those people who wanted to use them. Surely we do not have to sit around for 10 days hoping that we can think up some methods by which we can manipulate the system in order to get a few more votes if at the conclusion of the counting on polling night we find that there is only a handful of votes between the candidates. I suggest to the House that this clause gives a reasonable opportunity for the Parliament to improve efficiency and the implementation of our electoral laws. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)-  I call the honourable member for Lilley. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question now is: 'That the clause proposed to be omitted stand part of the Bill'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 33 to 37- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 38. 
Section 106 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted:- ' 106. In printing the ballot-papers to be used in a House of Representatives election- 
the order of the names of the candidates on the ballot-papers shall be determined as follows:- 
the Divisional Returning Officer shall, at the place of nomination, immediately after the close of nominations and before all persons present, make out in respect of each candidate a slip bearing the name of the candidate, enclose each slip in a separate blank envelope of exact similarity and deposit the several envelopes in a locked ballot-box; 
the Divisional Returning Officer shall then shake and rotate the ballot-box and shall permit any other person present, if he so desires, to do the same; 
the ballot-box shall then be unlocked and an officer of the Australian Public Service, other than the Divisional Returning Officer, shall take out and open the envelopes from the ballot-box one by one; and 
the candidate whose name appears on the slip enclosed in the envelope first taken from the ballot-box shall be placed first on the ballotpapers, the candidate whose name appears on the slip enclosed in the envelope next taken from the ballot-box shall be placed next on the ballotpapers and so on until the placing of all the names has been determined; 
where a candidate has specified a former name or former names in a declaration made in pursuance of sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 73, the former name or former names shall be printed after the name of that candidate; 
where similarity in the names of 2 or more candidates is likely to cause confusion, the names of those candidates may be arranged with such description or addition as will distinguish them from one another; and 
a square shall be printed opposite the name of each candidate.'. 
-Again in keeping with the feeling of the Committee I will make my remarks brief becuse most of what can be said on this subject has already been said in the presentation of this Bill on the first occasion in November last year and again today in the second reading debate. What we are looking at now is the comparison of systems that may be applicable in different arenas- of politics. There are people who would charge that we on this side are being inconsistent or are applying double standards because the system we use amongst 60, 70 or 80 people in the Parliamentary Labor Party or in the State branches of the ALP is not what we are proposing for the people of Australia. That is easily answered. There is a great difference between the 60 or 100 people who know each other intimately- and the 7 million people voting for 700 or 800 candidates whom they do not know. 
All politicians should be acutely aware of how little they are known in their electorates. The highest figure I have ever seen for how well known a politician is was about 45 per cent; that is, 45 per cent of the electorate knew their member of Parliament. I do not say this in any derogatory way at all but it was a very high figure. Forty-five per cent of the electorate in a poll we once conducted knew the former member for Adelaide, Andrew Jones. Normally a member of Parliament would be expected to be known by 15 per cent to 25 per cent of his electorate 25 per cent if he is working very hard in his electorate and 15 per cent if he is putting out an occasional letter. So the vast majority of people not only do not know their member but also there is very little likelihood that they have ever heard, unless they are active in their particular political Parties, of his opponent. So if we add to that recipe a group or groups of political Parties that may be trying to manipulate the system we come up with a voting pattern which gives a result other than that intended by the Australian electorate. As I said a little earlier in the day, this is not innuendo. This is fact. 
A group in Sydney called the Independent Political Research Organisation thoroughly researched the pattern of informal voting and concluded that for every candidate over 40 who might stand for the Senate in New South Wales we could expect an increase in the informal vote of 0.5 per cent and that 80 per cent of those people would be intending Labor voters. It is not true to say that in 1974 we had the usual informal vote. New South Wales becomes the critical area of analysis in looking at the manner in which the system can be manipulated. It had 73 candidates for the Senate and a 12.3 per cent informal vote in the whole State. In other words, 12 per cent of its people were not being represented in the Senate. As I said earlier, had their votes been formal or had the informal vote for the Senate election paralleled the informal vote for the House of Representatives election there can be no doubt that the Labor Party in New South Wales would have won 6 positions in the Senate. So we got a result in New South Wales that was not intended by the electorate by virtue of these people manipulating the system and because people did not know their candidates or teams. 
In addition- and one could expect this of the Liberal Party- the highest informal vote in New South Wales happens to be among the migrant groups. In other words, they are the people who are being penalised most. If we look at division after division in New South Wales we will find that the informal vote is highest where there is the highest concentration of migrants, and this is because political Parties ignore the spending of money on avenues that may be of influence in the migrant communities, or cannot afford it. According to the observations made earlier in the campaign we did get a high formal vote. People were predicting a 25 per cent, 30 per cent or 40 per cent informal vote. But the major political Parties in the meantime spent fortunes trying to educate the community how to vote from 1 to 73. A larger portion of their budgets was spent on that aspect of the campaign than had ever been spent before. 
The electorate of Sydney, which has a high concentration of migrants, had a 20 per cent informal vote at the 1974 Senate election. Not only is the Opposition justifying this but it also wants to see it continued. Why does the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  predict that it will not happen again? At the next election if the Liberal Party promises to put up the price of oil it could expect a couple of million dollars from its development friends and mining companies. It would be worth its while spending $50,000 to put up 50 additional candidates for the Senate, because it knows that in some way that may affect the formal vote intended for the Australian Labor Party. 
The honourable member for Curtin says that the Australian people reject first past the post voting. My own view is that they do not; that they would accept overwhelmingly first past the post voting. Most people want to vote exclusively for the person they want to represent them. If they are highly sophisticated in their political attitudes or their following of politics in their electorate or their State they might be able to follow the ballot through to the first preferences, which we are giving them the opportunity to do. But no one can tell me that with lists of 10, 12, 20 or 70 candidates people anywhere in Australia are able to follow that through rationally. But people are sitting in this Parliament because of preferences well down the list, If people, especially the migrant community, want to vote for just the person they know or the person they want to represent them, under this legislation they can do so, and where people want to vote down the complete list they can do so. 
I can understand the conservative attitudes of the honourable members who sit opposite but I have also had the opportunity over the past years of looking at the most conservative political chamber in Australia- the South Australian Legislative Council. Honourable members will all be pleased to know that next March the election for the South Australian Upper House will be based on proportional representation and also on optional preferential voting. So the people will be able to identify their team and not go any further than they want in voting or they may vote for 2 teams. Whilst  Senator Hall  may still give the Opposition some trouble next year even the Legislative Council in South Australia has made that step forward. I suggest in all seriousness that honourable members opposite ought to adopt the same attitude. 
-Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration give the House an up to date figure on those people now being employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme? Has the National Employment and Training scheme been successful in assisting people who are socially and economically disadvantaged in the community? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Recreation and Tourism. Is he aware that last Saturday one of Australia's most outstanding footballers, Neil Sasche, was involved in a football mishap which may leave him paralysed for the rest of his life? Will the Government consider assisting his family, who I understand have to travel from Adelaide to see him in hospital? 
-The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  thought it was ironic that he should lead for his side of the House in the debate on this Bill. I think we on this side of the House have matched that, because most of the painting I saw being done in my youth was done with a tar brush. Like the honourable member for Hotham, I am sure that I will be followed in the debate by a colleague who has far more expertise in this matter. I will be followed by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Not only has he a great love of the arts, but his very features have been submitted in an entry for the Archibald Prize. The entry was unsuccessful; nevertheless it was submitted. 
A couple of points made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech are worthy of repeating. Firstly, in talking about the history of a National Gallery, the Prime Minister pointed out to the Parliament that the establishment of a National Gallery was, of course, part of the original master plan of Canberra. It is a great tragedy that the original master plan was not acted upon much sooner than it has been. Secondly, he said that in the establishment of a National Gallery we have the beginnings of an institution which it is his hope and the hope of the Government will be a source of pleasure and artistic stimulation for generations of Australians to come, a worthy addition to our growing national heritage and an endeavour in which we might all take pride. I think that we all do take such pride, although we might have different priorities, we might place different degrees of importance on the particular forms of art that will be displayed in the Gallery and we might also lay different emphasis on the role of the Gallery in terms of the Australian community. I have taken an interest in the establishment of the Gallery because I happen to represent a very underprivileged area. I hope that the Gallery will play some part in bringing the artistic works, particularly of Australians, to those areas which previously have been devoid of the opportunity to see them. 
I believe that the very concept of a National Gallery is both stimulating and exciting. It is in no way contradictory that it is a Labor Government which has introduced the Bill for its establishment, as no government has done more for the arts than the present Labor Government has done; nor has any Prime Minister done more for the arts than the present Prime Minister has done. It could be simply put, of course, that by sheer weight of money we have done more, but in the final analysis one cannot and should not make judgments on the basis of the amount of money allocated. People should understand firstly that there always will be criticism of government action in this field. Art being what it is, there is no final criterion for judgment. There is a good deal of subjective pride in the performance of artists and, as in industrial relations, in relations between governments and creative people there is no perfect recipe. 
The Government has taken giant strides in its drive to involve the community. If honourable members look at clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill they will see inherent in them the maintenance of this principle. Involving the community is not a oneway traffic. The artists themselves should be and must be involved. Really, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, the establishment of the National Gallery cannot be separated from the Government's support for the Australia Council. The Gallery and Council boards involve artists. They themselves become the refiners of policy and they themselves become the decision makers. Notwithstanding all the steps that have been taken, there have been many disputes; but I put it to the House quite seriously that no one will get on better with the artists than a Labor Government will. I believe that we have seen demonstrated over the past 2 years a common commitment by both the Government and the artists to excellence and quality. There can be no doubt that we share this commitment. 
Nowhere is that principle demonstrated in more depth than in the Government's brave policies on the arts, and in the vanguard of those policies would be the policies on the acquisition of art. The acquisition of art should never be without question, but the questions raised on it should be raised on a rational basis and not merely because of prejudice against quality. However, all artists, especially painters, will have a fundamental sympathy with the Government 's pursuit of excellence. Both the Government, and the artists have another common ground, because the artists instinctively want their works to be displayed in the public domain and not in private collections, although I quite understand that the private collector quite often helps to keep the wolf from an artist's door. 
It is important, when speaking on this Bill, to stress that the Government does not consider the public domain to be one fine building in Canberra for the local people and the 300 000 tourists a year who journey to Canberra. Both this Government and the artists have the desire to communicate and, as I have said, clauses 5 (2), 6 ( 1 ) (b) and 6(2) give the Gallery Board great freedom. Whether the Gallery is bringing students to Canberra or taking exhibitions from the Gallery to the people, it will be an exercise in communications. Communications in this case should include the utilisation of all the up to date equipment, such as audiovisual methods, to portray to the people the works of art that belong to the people of Australia. There can be no doubt that one of the Government delights for any citizen of this country is to visit an Australian art exhibition. The great tragedy is that too few people in Australia share that experience. 
Since the war there has been a great resurgence in art and our artists have performed superbly in truly reflecting the Australian spirit. It would be incredible not to link the Australian landscape with the names of Drysdale and Williams. As a result of the establishment of this 
Gallery, the experience of the few will be the experience, I would hope, of the majority. I reiterate that this Government is not all about cocktail parties and opening nights, where the photographer taking photographs for the next days papers invariably shows the people with their backs to the paintings. 
The Gallery should sponsor not only travelling exhibitions to all Australian cities and regional centres, but also should sponsor the artists to go out into the community as much as possible. In joining with the honourable member for Hotham, I say that there are many underprivileged areas in this country, underprivileged from lack of galleries, lack of libraries, lack of child care centres, all the matters that go to make a proper quality of life. Indeed, the National Gallery of Australian can play an extremely important role in bringing to all of those people some of the efforts, some of the artistic talents, some of the works of art that may be available to them in the National Gallery. I think it is an extremely important institution to be established, and I am very pleased to be associated with the Government which has introduced this Bill to finally see the establishment of a National Gallery in Canberra. 
-As the Opposition has now turned the debate on this Bill into an attack on specific Government programs, I am more than happy to fall into line and follow the theme that has been established by my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  In terms of talking about where the Government ought to cut expenditure, only one honourable member opposite has had sufficient courage to stipulate the areas that ought to be cut. I refer of course to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  who said that, excluding pensions, he would cut every area of government expenditure. I remind honourable member's of some of the areas about which they have been speaking. 
I deal with one area to which the right honourable member for Bruce referred- pensions. Let us look at the history of the Liberal and Country Parties on the question of pensions. The right honourable member for Bruce said that the Opposition would cut all expenditure with the exception of pensions. From 1949 until December 1972 the old age pension was never allowed to go above 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. In fact, if it ever reached 20 per cent in any given year between 1949 and 1972, then the government of that particular year refused to give any further increase to it. So he is in effect saying that the Liberal and Country Parties would go back to their old standards of restricting the age pensioner to 1 8, 1 9 and 20 per cent of the average weekly earnings and ignore the increase in the living standards which have been afforded to the pensioners of this country by the establishment and acceptance of a rate of 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings for pensions. So we can dismiss as being a sham the claim by the Opposition that that is the only area in which it would not cut government expenditure. 
Perhaps I should get on to the areas in which the Opposition says that it would cut government expenditure. Questions are raised continually in the House by honourable members opposite about certain areas of government expenditure in which they take a specific interest. I do not want to put the primary industries in the vanguard of those, but questions are continually asked about the plight of the wool industry, the beef industry and, by honourable members opposite like myself who are from South Australia, the wine industry. They are all industries which need government assistance. Before we look at what assistance they need and what the Opposition is now saying about them, let us look at some of the hopes to which honourable members opposite have referred that the Government has raised and consider whether it is a legitimate exercise to raise the hopes of people in Australia and to attract a greater community participation in government enterprises, in government initiatives and in being able to see that government moneys are spent in welfare areas. The subject of pensions has been mentioned by honourable members opposite. Let us look at other social welfare programs, such as the programs for single mothers, deserted wives, women's shelters, women's clinics, nursing homes and so on. 
Every one of us has a nursing home in his electorate. The Government is subsidising the private nursing homes almost to the extent of $200m. Have any honourable members opposite ever been present at a nursing home when it is being closed down and watched the relations rushing around trying to place their kinfolk elsewhere as patients? Have they seen the concern on the faces of those kinfolk? Are we now to say that we are going to close down more of them when we know very well that no further accommodation is available in the cities or in the regional areas to take those people? There is a strong case for increasing government participation in this specific area. I think that the whole subject of nursing homes may become a far greater responsibility for the Government than it has been in the past. Of course honourable members opposite are quite right in saying that we have raised the hopes of people about what they can expect from our Government, which is a concerned Government. The Government is not going to backtrack on what it has done over the past 2 years. To do so would be to turn its back on the reason why it was elected. The Government is elected by those people because for 23 years honourable members opposite ignored their plight. 
Let us look at the child care program that was announced recently by the Government. It is something quite new. The Government has announced that further expenditure will be undertaken on looking after the children of this country. There are 85 000 children between the ages of one and five years who are left at home by themselves while their parents are at work because there are no child care or kindergarten centres near their homes. Are we to say to those 85 000 children: 'It is safe. It is quite an acceptable standard of living for you to be left at home by yourself? Of course not. What member of this House has said to the Government or to the appropriate Minister. 'Do not build a child care centre or a pre-school centre in my electorate. I want to cut government expenditure'. We all appreciate their importance and the necessity for having them established. Of course it is a sham by the Opposition to put up the argument that expenditure on those sorts of things ought to be cut. 
It is not just a question of looking after the children between one and five years of age: What about the Government's whole education program? The right honourable member for Bruce said that without question expenditure on education has to be cut. Those of us who service and represent with a great deal of pride the underprivileged areas of this country say to honourable members opposite in no uncertain terms that there must be no cutback in the expenditure in the field of education. The parents of the children at the 46 schools in my electorate, which are considerably like those in all other underprivileged electorates in this country, are, because they pay their taxes, work in industry and produce the wealth in the private sector of which honourable members opposite are so proud, entitled to see that their children are given an equal opportunity of education. That is something that was denied to them right up until 1972. Only the present Government, by making massive infusions of money into the field of education, has been able to do anything about the matter. 
All honourable members opposite know from their personal experiences the great pride that they can take in visiting the schools in their electorates because the Australian Government in Canberra has done so much for them. But now they are saying that government expenditure should be cut. In saying that government expenditure should be cut honourable members opposite have not named the specific areas in which it should be cut. They have not said that schools should not be provided with libraries, playing grounds or innovation grants. Honourable members opposite have also come up with the great plea that whatever the Government has done in relation to the taxation deduction for education expenses should not have been done and that people should still be allowed to claim a $400 taxation deduction for education expenses. So there is a great contradiction in the views being expressed by the Opposition. 
Of course, it is relevant to what the Opposition is saying about Government expenditure in the fields of social welfare and education to bear in mind what the Australian Country Party, with the support of the Liberal Party of Australia, is saying about primary industry. Indeed, there are honourable members opposite who say that the reduction in the sales tax on motor vehicles ought to continue for a longer period than the period the Government has announced. They want to cut Government revenue in that field. Let us take the assistance in the way of the provision of food that we are giving to countries that are in need of assistance from developed and advanced countries like our own. Are we to say to Bangladesh, India and the other countries in that region: 'We are very sorry but the Liberal and Country Parties want us to cut our expenditure, so we can no longer assist you'? I invite honourable members opposite to look at what the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in his second reading speech about the assistance that ought to be given to those areas. Of course we are going to continue to provide assistance because we can afford to give that type of assistance to them. Should the Government say to the spastic centres and the crippled children's centres in Australia: 'Do not let your hopes be raised too high because of what we have done in the past 2 years. We know that you were ignored basically for 20 years. We have since raised your hopes but we are going to let you down, as previous conservative governments have let you down '? Of course the Government is not going to adopt that attitude. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  said, of course the Government is going to pour millions of dollars into Medibank to ensure that every man, woman and child is covered by a health scheme and not by the patched up job that existed under the control of 113 private health insurance companies. Are honourable members opposite in effect saying to the one and a quarter million people who have had no previous coverage or who are now being compelled to pay $70, $80 and $90 a quarter for medical insurance and who cannot afford to do so: 'We are going to scrap Medibank'? Do they want to keep the same rotten old health system that was in existence for the 23 years in which they were in office? The Government cannot be re-elected by looking back into the past- into the 1870s- which is what the Opposition is doing. The Medibank scheme will be established. It will be established with the overwhelming support of the majority of the people. It will cover not just the one and quarter million people who have had no coverage in the past but everybody. 
Let us look at the favourite topics of the Country Party. The supporters of the Country Party should be honest about it and say that they have seen great advances made in the country towns and in the regional centres as a result of the present Government's programs in education, child care, nursing home subsidies and so forth. The Country Party is now seeking assistance from the Government for its pet industries of wool, beef and wine. Of course the Government ought to be concerned about them. Are honourable' members opposite saying that the Government should say to the wool growers and to the rural workers of this country: 'You are all going to be thrown onto the streets because we are not going to give the Wool Corporation the $300m it needs to buy your product. It is no good having sheep there growing wool because no one is going to buy it', or are they going to insist, as they have done over the past 2 years in speeches and by way of asking questions, upon the Government making sure that it continues with the policy of subsidising the Wool Corporation? Would they like the Government just to let the wool be thrown onto an open market and attract to itself its real value? Perhaps that is what the Liberal and Country Parties would like the Government to do. 
Is the Government to take seriously the claims . of the beef growers in this country that they need assistance or is it to say: 'It is just bad luck that people will not buy your product overseas. You will have to be retrained under the NEAT scheme and go into the cities', or is the Government to sit down and look seriously at the ways in which it may give financial assistance to the people involved in that industry? Is the Government to say to the wine growers of South 
Australia and to those in other parts of this countryalthough they do not grow grapes that make as good a wine as South Australia's- that it is not going to take seriously the plight of their industry? Is the Government to say to them that it is not going to sit down and discuss in a rational and proper manner the assistance that the industry needs? Let us look at the situation with respect to Darwin. Are we to say that we will cut expenditure for the rebuilding of Darwin? Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will not grant a pair to enable the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  to continue his talks in Darwin. Are we to say that the $ 1,000m, perhaps, needed over the next few years for the re-establishment of the northernmost city of this country, will not be made available? Of course we are not. If honourable members look at the specifics of Government expenditure which the Opposition talks about cutting, they will find it is an impossible task. If the Government went back on promises that it has made and with which it has raised hopes in this country there would be no chance of it being reelected. We will be re-elected time and again because we will fulfil the hopes that we have raised since December 1972. 
Leave is also an important aspect of trade union training because if there is to be a confrontation between State governments, industry and other semi-governmental operations against trade union training and if they are to fight all the way down the line against paying their employees to go to these trade union courses, it will be a long uphill battle. This method of training ought to be accepted by Aus.tralian society as being an imperative part of our society. I commend the Bill to the House. 
It is very difficult, as suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to be dispassionate about a subject which centres on the trade union movement because between 1949 and 1972 the movement fared very badly under legislation presented to the House by the Government formed by the conservative Parties. Great credit must be given to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  because he has done so much to bring our labour legislation into line with that which exists in other parts of the world and also in line with the International Labor Organisation Convention. It has been suggested by a number of trade union officials from my State of South Australia- not the least of whom is the secretary of the Minister's old union, the Australian Workers' Union,  Mr Jim  Dumford- that the college should be named after the Minister in order to recognise the role which he has played in establishing these forums throughout Australia. 
I think it is important- this matter was raised by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)-  that we have a look at the interpretation of trade union training. These matters have changed a great deal but this has not been accepted, certainly by spokesmen on behalf of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party throughout Australia, nor by much of management throughout Australia. Trading union training, as defined in the Bill, means: 
educational, technical or practical training- * 
capable of advancing and developing an understanding of the functions and objectives of trade unions in Australian society; or 
capable of advancing and developing knowledge and skills in fields connected with the powers and functions of trade unions or the powers, functions and duties of officers or officials of trade unions; and 
educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council; 
Obviously that means that the training of trade union officials should take in almost every aspect of Australian life and society. There are two or three points which have to be accepted by everybody in Australia. They are still being fought by some sections but they have to be accepted as fact. Firstly, Australia is one of the most highly unionised countries in the western world. That is a matter of fact which is unlikely to change. Secondly, the trade unions are here to stay and no legislation introduced into this or into any other Parliament is likely to alter that fact. Any such move would mean retaliation by the force of the trade union movement which would negate any attempt to put it out of business. We are looking at one of the largest social forces in the community. It is a permanent and growing social force. We are asking here in government and in the national parliament of Australia what should be done about. 
I do not share with some honourable members on this side of the House the glee with which they greet the proposed amendments to be moved by the Oppostion. I for one have always voiced my opposition to government interference in trade unions. I think that much of what I have said over the years is exemplified in the industrial relations which exist in countries like Sweden where the government keeps its nose out of union business. I think that to have 3 members of Parliament on the council would be something which in later years we may regret. It seems to me that in that way we may interfere with the proper conduct of the College and with the proper setting of the syllabus for those people who attend the trade union college. One can imagine if the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  were placed on the Council as a representative of the Opposition how shocked and horrified he would be if the name Karl Marx appeared on the syllabus to be presented to any class of the trade union college which is to be set up. I do not altogether share the views that parliamentarians ought to sit on that council. 
A point was made by the Leader of the Opposition and it was also voiced earlier by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  about having joint training. This view is not shared by the trade union movement. We are in the infancy of trade union training in Australia. A lot of people have done a great deal to assist trade unionists to begin trade union training and much has been done in the running of minor schools throughout the years. Honourable members from the Liberal and Country Parties opposite might have seen on numerous occasions members of the Labor Party taking these delegates to dinner when they visit Parliament House while attending schools at the Aus.tralian National University. I have never seen them going to dinner with members of the Opposition Parties. I think this reflects the views which are held by the trade unionists. At the moment they do not intend to sit down with representatives of industry or with representatives of their opponents to try to do a joint course in what we might call 'sleeping beautifully with capitalism', or something like that. They are attending these courses now because they have not had the benefit of training to enable them to understand the complex mechanisms of industrial relations in Australia and to a very large extent they have not had a reintroduction to study. 
One of the basic ingredients of trade union training overseas is the first step of reintroducing people who have been in industry and in factories to the mode of study which is necessary in order for them to understand all the subjects that may be placed before them. Of course, this is not something which would apply to our opponents or to the opponents of the trade unionists attending these schools. So for the time being, and I think it will be permanent so far as the trade unions are concerned, they do not want to attend training or schools with other than trade union or wage and salary representatives. The training that they will go through Will affect every aspect of Australian society. 
Someone has said that perhaps we could build into trade union training the use of some of the colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, that this would be the way in which trade union training ought to be done and it would not be necessary to have a separate college. Many facts have been laid before all honourable members in relation to the difficulty of having trade union training built into these institutions. For instance, the propositions would completely alter the character and work of the Authority under which the trade union training would be done and would inhibit the volume of its activities. The propositions show a lack of understanding of the kind of training proposed. Colleges of Advanced Education are demonstrably not engaged in trade union training and have shown no willingness or ability to be so involved in spite of a number of opportunities over the years. Let me give a specific case. 
Could anyone imagine a college of advanced education being interested in the highly interesting industrial case which is being undertaken by the metal workers union in South Australia at the moment? This is a case which quite honestly could be put forward as a test case or a case that ought to be studied by any college of trade union training. It concerns the actions taken by General Motors-Holden's in sacking a shop steward. Let us look at the turn of events that has taken place in relation to the sacking of this shop steward on 20 November last year. For 5 months GMH has refused to discuss the matter. It has refused to speak to State officials. It has refused to speak to federal officials. It has refused to go to arbitration. It has opposed the assistance of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It has had 5 months of very obstinate opposition to any negotiation over the dismissal of a shop steward. Can honourable members envisage a tertiary institution, such as a college of advanced education, saying to its students: 'Here is something for you to understand; here is something to go into your curriculum; here is something you should have before you'? Obviously it is a matter which ought to be specifically directed towards trade union training. 
Of course, the institutions to which I refer are built for and administered in respect of three and 4-year courses. Their requirements are quite different from those of the one to 8-week courses such as those prepared by trade unions or the Australian Council of Trade Unions education office. Short courses work intensively, often for 12 hours a day, and class rooms are in constant and exclusive use, unlike rooms in tertiary institutions which may be used for a variety of classes in any given day. For this reason the ACTU has found that it cannot obtain classrooms in these other tertiary institutions when it requires them. The most difficult schools that the ACTU has run were those held at the Canberra College of Advanced Education in January and February of 1975. The arrangement of the buildings, the services and the character of the college are quite unsuited to short, intensive course work. To operate there would require the erection of a special and separate set of buildings on the campus. Those people who are experienced in trade union training are saying that one would have to accept the establishment of a separate institution. 
The point I wish to conclude on, because so many other people want to speak on the subject, is the question of leave, that is, people being paid to attend these trade union courses. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a list of those companies and semi-governmental operations which now pay their employees to attend these trade union courses. 
I rise to place on record my support for the  clause in its  present form and to say a few words about the amendment. It is said that politics is the art of compromise. If that were the case this amendment, in art form, would be like 'Blue Poles'very flaky. It is unfortunate that so many honourable members have now sought a compromise to the Bill as it was presented to us from the Senate. I think it is a Bill which represents truly the views of the vast majority of people in this country. If people want to know why a period of 12 months is so sacrosanct, it is because there is no evidence to suggest that reconciliation comes about after 12 months. 
Of course, we cannot put up a Bill which will be 100 per cent perfect for all the people in this country. But it is far better to do what is now presented in clause 48 than to try to play around in the manner we are by way of these amendmentsby reverting to a period of 24 months and ensuring that people 'genuinely desire ' a dissolution of marriage. As the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  quite correctly asks, how do you get people who genuinely desire something? Of course, as the honourable member for Kooyong quite rightly said, one can grease people's palms and then they will genuinely desire a certain set of circumstances. Not one  speaker,  in supporting the amendment, has put forward any statistics which would support the argument in favour of 2 years, or which would suggest that there has been a great deal of reconciliation between the 1 year and 2 year period which is recommended in the amendment. 
Some honourable members support the reintroduction of the concept of fault as a ground of divorce. It is a wonder we try to pass the Family Law Bill at all if we are, in fact, going to reintroduce fault as a basis for the dissolution of marriage. No honourable member has argued against the multiplicity of documents and voluminous figures which have come before us on the manner in which marriages are dissolved in Australia at the present time. Honourable members will see from the figures which have been presented that the area where the blatant decree of fault is available is the area which is growing faster as a means for dissolution of marriage than the areas of, say, desertion and separation. Those honourable members who have looked at the documents sent to them will see that the cases of adultery and cruelty are growing at 4 times the rate of, say, separation or desertion. No one argues against these figures. People are looking to exploit the fault clause; and we all know what that means in a society. I say quite genuinely to the House that no argument at all has been put forward as to why this House should adopt any amendment to clause 48. 
I disagree with the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I see in paragraphs (c), (k) and (n)- those paragraphs referred to by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)sufficient  protection for the woman who wants to continue her role as a mother. I think she would find it very difficult after separation to continue her role as a wife but she may be able to continue her role or want to continue her role as a woman. I refer to paragraph (c), which provides that the matters to be taken into account by the court include:  whether either parry has the care or control of a child of the marriage who nas not attained the age of 1 8 years. 
And, also, as provided in paragraph (k):  the duration of the marriage and the extent to which it has affected the earning capacity of the party whose maintenance is under consideration. 
Obviously, in many cases the earning capacity of the woman has been affected by her married life. Sub-clause (n) is completely open. It states: 
. any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. 
It is very difficult, impossible in fact, for honourable members to try to write into clause 75 all the circumstances which may eventuate when the court is looking at the situation of a particular couple. For instance, men may put forward the view that maintenance should be based, when referring to working people, on average weekly earnings or that the court should take into account that at the time of separation the man was getting an unusual amount of overtime in his salary for that year. New sub-clauses would be needed to provide for these circumstances. In looking at the specifics of both partners to the separation of course there is no end to the number of sub-clauses that could be written in. I do not think any person looking at clause 75 could suggest properly that any further subclause is needed. I think the proposed amendment is a useless platitude to offer the women of Australia. 
-Can the Treasurer inform the House whether he has received representations from the National Country Party of Australia in regard to cuts in government spending? 
It is fairly obvious that the honourable member for 
Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  who led for the Opposition in the debate, has never been to South Australia. I understood that we were talking about giving approval to the report on the redistribution of electoral boundaries in South Australia. The honourable member never mentioned South Australia. I am also reminded by his contribution of a story I heard once about a member of the Liberal Party who was talking to a journalist. The journalist said: 'The trouble with the Liberal Party is that it is full of halfsmart lawyers and would-be academics'. The member of the Liberal Party said: 'Where do I stand?' The journalist said: 'You get the quinella'. 
Objection was raised to the reports of the various redistribution commissions being discussed individually, but of course they are being debated by this Parliament in the order in which they were sent to us. The report on South Australia, being the first presented, is the first to be debated. Some general observation should be made before we get on to South Australia. This is probably the first redistribution in the history of Australia when we knew the attitude of the Opposition prior to the commissioners even being appointed. On most occasions commissioners are appointed by this Parliament to carry out a task which eventually would be carried out by the Parliament, and the redistribution is put into effect. On this occasion- this has been substantiated by speeches that have been made around the country- as was evidenced in the speech made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  some time ago, it has never been the intention of the Opposition to accept the redistribution that was to be brought down by the commissioners. The commissioners are not members of the parliamentary Australian Labor Party or the Australian Labor Party at large. They are appointed to look at a matter in accordance with the terms of reference given to them and to bring about an equitable redistribution. But the boundaries which have been recommended by the commissioners for every State were never going to be accepted by the Opposition. 
A couple of other general points ought to be made about the redistributions and about electoral reforms. We are in some ways plagued on electoral redistributions by the federal system of government. Each State sets its values and each State, accordingly, tries to influence those of us who come to the Austraiian Parliament to serve our States. I feel sorry for those who come from Queensland and for the attitude which they may adopt to electoral reform, because the Premier of that State sits on 19 per cent of the vote and still becomes the Premier. Unfortunately these things also affect the thinking of people who serve in the Australian Parliament. I say unfortunately because this Parliament, above all others, should stand above interference in reports which are brought down by Commissioners. Also, in some ways, we are plagued by the single electorate system. It has been very difficult, even striking the 10 per cent discrepancy which we have given in the terms of reference to the Commissioners, for them to bring about a system which would be acceptable to all. 
People can yell and scream about the way in which the system is being manipulated but there can be no doubt that the report which has been brought down by the Commissioners is fair and equitable. The final observation I make about what happens in this Parliament- we see this in relation to electoral redistribution- is the complete domination of the Opposition by the National Country Party of Australia. For as long as I live I will never understand why the Liberal Party puts up with the National Country Party standing over it, not only in relation to electoral reform but also in the despicable performance prior to the 1972 election in respect of revaluation and, quite recently, the National Country Party domination in the coalition attitude to the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. But above all else, now when the Liberal Party could stand up and show it has hair on its chest again it capitulates to the National Country Party on this important matter. 
If we look at South Australia, I defy anybody in the Liberal Party to say that the South Australian redistribution is not fair. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  even prior to the Commissioners being appointed said in his family newspaper the Advertiser' that the Labor Party would try to win Sturt by hook or by crook. If one were to look back at the 1972 election campaign when Norm Foster lost the seat to the honourable member, one could have applied the term crook' to a number of things which were carried out in that electorate, including a lot of propaganda which was placed around doctors' surgeries about people losing the right to have the choice of their own doctor. Obviously the Commissioners, had they wanted to, could have made Sturt very safe for the Labor Party. If I were appointed a commissioner I would show how to make Sturt safe for Labor. Unfortunately I was not appointed. The Commissioners have carried out a redistribution in South Australia which undoubtedly is acceptable to all. If there were to be any complaints we could have as many as the Liberal Party. As the National Country Party does not exist by name in South Australia, one can only try to guess at the amount of influence it may have. But if the redistribution is not acceptedas has been suggested by the Oppositionlet us look at what will happen. At the 1977 election Wakefield will have 45 000 electors. Bonython will have well over 90 000 electors. I think the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  underestimated the growth in the number of electors in Bonython when he said 90 000. 1 think it will have well over 90 000. I think the ability of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is far above looking after half an electorate which is what he will be asked to do from 1977 onwards. 
Let us have a look at each of the seats in turn. The Liberal Party is advantaged in South Australia by a swing of 1.5 per cent by the redistribution. Taking the seats separately, in an all percentage vote in that State the Liberal Country League is advantaged by 1.5 per cent of the total State vote. But here, by virtue of the attitude of the National Country Party, this redistribution is being rejected. I have no doubt, although I have no knowledge that this is correct, that if the State Liberal Party had made a decision on this matter it would have accepted the redistribution in South Australia. Let us have a look at the seat of Grey. It has almost doubled in area. We hear complaints from the National Country Party about the vast areas which their members have to look after. My friend the honourable member for Grey,  Mr Laurie  Wallis, will not only have twice the area- almost half the State- to look after but also he is 0.5 per cent worse off in the final washup at any future elections. So we should be able to complain to the Commissioners about the redistribution as far as Grey is concerned. 
Let us have a look at what happened to Sturt. Sturt could quite easily have been taken into the areas into which Angas has been taken. It is now 0.3 per cent better for the sitting member and for the Party he represents. And you tell me that the Liberal Country League of South Australia is complaining about the finalisation of these reports? The only seat which has had a substantial reduction in the advantage which was given to the Party is Angas. Of course, Angas was well under the quota which was established for all the electorates in that State, but the redistribution still gives the Liberal Country League a substantial majority of 7 per cent at the next election. 
Are we to allow seats like Wakefield, Barker and Angas to have members representing 30 000 or 40 000 voters? Is this the intention of honourable members who sit in the Opposition parties, never to have an equitable redistribution? If we continue to listen to the rhetoric with which the National Country Party carries on, and to its electoral redistribution reasoning, we will have a 30 per cent or 40 per cent discrepancy in the number of voters in electorates. The Liberal Party will suffer equally with those of us who sit here serving the Australian Labor Party because no redistribution which the National Country Party wants will benefit 75 per cent of the voters of this country. The Liberal Party is mad to put up with that. 
In relation to charges about previous elections reflecting accurately the vote which was given to the various parties, it is suggested that because in 1974 the Labor Party received as a second preferred vote 51.7 per cent of the votes, that it is fair and equitable that we receive 52 per cent of the seats. 
I suggest to the honourable member that he put on his hearing aid. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party which received 48.3 per cent of the votes received 48 per cent of the seats. Of course the Opposition will claim that that election result demonstrates the perfect fairness of the present boundaries. It will be claimed that, if anything, the boundaries slightly favour Labor. It follows that any redistribution which increases the level of Labor representation must be a Labor gerrymander. The error in this reasoning is that it fails to note the fact that single member constituencies normally give winning parties a winner's bonus. In 1974 Labor's winner's bonus just outweighed the advantage of the boundaries. The 1974 election was the third election contested on the present boundaries. I have here a comparative table which shows the result of the first election held with these boundaries. The Liberal-Country Party received 49.8 per cent of the vote and 66 seats or 52.8 per cent of the seats. The Australian Labor Party received 50.2 per cent of the vote and 59 seats or 47.2 per cent of the seats. Therefore in 1969 the result should have been 63 Labor Party seats and 62 Liberal-Country Party seats. In 1969 Labor was under-represented by 4 seats. 
Let us go back to 1963, look at the result and compare it with 1972 when we first came to office. In 1963 the present Opposition which was then led by  Sir Robert  Menzies on a second preferred vote received 52.6 per cent of the votes and had a majority of 22 seats. In 1972 on a second preferred vote we received 52.7 per cent of the votes and had a majority of 9 seats. Of course the argument which the Opposition continues to use changes from year to year or from election to election. The National Country Party is terrified that something will happen to the electoral boundaries and that the people of- this country may be given a fair and equitable system. I invite honourable members to look at the articles which are written in 'Muster'. The editor of Muster' would be a world authority on electoral reform, would he not? He keeps telling the National Country Party what actions it has to take. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was running around the country all the time before the Commissioners were appointed and while they were doing their work saying what a terrible redistribution it would be because the discrepancy between city and country would be only 10 per cent. 
If we look at what has happened in South Australia the Labor Party has as much to complain about as the people who sit opposite. But the Liberal Party is again capitulating to the National Country Party in trying to get a cognate debate. Members of the Liberal Party are saying: We do not want to discuss them State by State. We do not want to have our sins exposed. We do not want to tell the Executive of the LiberalCountry League in South Australia why we had to make these decisions'. 
My friend the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls)  after 1977 will have to represent 95 000 or 100 000 people while the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  services 45 000 people. That is the sort of system the Opposition continues to uphold. Members of the Liberal Party ought to listen to the rantings and ravings of those in 'Possum Corner'. They are the ones who are dictating to the Liberal Party how it should carry out its policies. What a joke it is when people read the coloured booklet headed 'Liberal Policy'. Members of the Liberal Party have to read what might be in the minds of those in 'Possum Corner' because they tell members of the Liberal Party almost everything they should do. It is an absolute national scandal that this once great party- the Liberal Party- is dictated to on every major issue by the rump, the National Country Party of Australia. Why does the Liberal Party continue to put up with it?  Sir Charles  Court told the Country Party to go to blazes and what has happened to him? They are now trying to find a compromise in Western 
Australia. The Country Party has said: 'We do not want one of our members to be Deputy Premier, just let us back into the ball game'. The Liberal Party should make a decision on the electoral distribution. No question could be more important to it than that of electoral redistribution. 
The Liberal Party services the metropolitan areas as much as we do. Members of the Liberal Party should be representing the points of view of the people who elected them instead of forgetting about them in favour of the rural electorates. The situation in relation to the electorates of Bonython and Wakefield will apply to Victoria. After 1977 the Labor member for Diamond Valley,  Mr David  McKenzie, will represent 1 10 000 electors. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  will represent 45 000 electors. I can understand it in terms of ability but I cannot understand it in terms of equality. I reject it and I think it is about time members of the Liberal Party stood up and faced this question. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to a claim that a Medibank card issued for 2 adopted children in Queensland showed the name of the children's natural mother? Does this indicate a breach of confidence or a breakdown in the system? If so, what can be done to rectify this situation? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the predictions made some weeks ago that a bloodbath would follow any change of government in South Vietnam, has the Australian Government received any evidence that a bloodbath took place following the taking over of South Vietnam by the Provisional Revolutionary Government? Is he aware of the initiatives that have been taken by Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand to build diplomatic relations with the new Governments of Cambodia and South Vietnam? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by saying that the Minister will understand that among some schools there is some misunderstanding as to their rights in approaching the Schools Commission. Can the Minister inform the House of the rights of any given school in Australia in approaching the Schools Commission for benefits? 
-I speak in support of the motion. The Government does not mind the Opposition being politic, but when it is stupid with its politics it ought to be exposed in the Parliament. Time and again we have seen that the spokesman on this issue has been from the National Country Party of Australia. On the last occasion when matters of this nature were debated the Opposition put up the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  to try to defend the fort. He would be the greatest lightweight since Vic Patrick. So now the Opposition has thrown its heavyweights back in. The Opposition complains continually about the use of the guillotine. The guillotine was used so much when the Opposition was in Government that some of its members started to speak in French. 
Time and again we have heard the accusations of gerrymander and the accusation that we are trying to keep Labor in power forever with such Bills. No honourable member opposite, in all the time that was given to the Opposition to present its point of view in the debates that took place in this House quite recently, presented one positive argument as to why these Bills should not be agreed to. Time and again the National Country Party of Australia spokesman on these matters tried during the debates to defend the National Country Party's position in having electorates with 45 000 electors while the city electorates grow to 100 000 electors. As the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  said, the National Country Party talking about electoral reform is like a backyard abortionist talking about motherhood. 
We do not mind whether it be in this Parliament or outside the Parliament, whether it be in the parks or in halls or in any forum, our position on electoral reform, our position on the rights of voters, our position on the rights of citizens and civil liberties, stand head and shoulders above anything that honourable members opposite have stood for since Federation under whatever given name they took to themselves in that period. Of course the debate ought to be restricted. Honourable members opposite have said all that they have to say. People have been able to hear them. They have limited support only in their own Parties on the views which they have put forward. The Bills ought to be agreed to. The 10 per cent discrepancy, which was part of the terms of reference given to the CommissionersCommissioners who were not appointed from political parties, but from among Australian citizens to bring down a fair and equitable redistributionought to be agreed to by this Parliament. These Bills were never going to be agreed to, according to honourable members opposite. They have been making speeches around this country saying that whatever decisions the Commissioners brought down, they were going to be opposed and thrown out. 
The Opposition does not want electoral equality; it does not want any redistribution of the seats because it is happy with what is happening now. Honourable members opposite should ask the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  whether he is happy being dominated by the views of the National Country Party. In 1977 he will represent 115 000 electors while his next door neighbour, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  will represent 40 000 electors. That gives some idea of the influence of the National Country Party over the so-called attitudes of the major Party. There can be no doubt that the motion moved by the Minister for Services and 
Property  (Mr Daly)  is correct in Parliamentary procedure. 
-Has the Minister for Services and Property studied the recent South Australian election for the Legislative Council which, for the first time, was elected on a system of optional preferential voting? Has there been any complaint about the system used or any suggestion by any political party that the system should be altered for future elections? 
I wish to refer to 3 items. On no fewer than 3 occasions the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said he was going to finish on a note or finish on a point. He droned on for 20 minutes and, of course, did not talk about the ramifications of this Bill. I understand that on a couple of occasions earlier he referred to me when I was acting as Secretary of the Labor Party. He referred to donations that were given to me. Credit must be paid to Rupert Murdoch, I suppose, because he is the only newspaper owner in Australia who, at times, does change his mind. If we examine the history of other so-called newspaper barons, we find that they are traditional in their support of the conservative and reactionary policies of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia. 
The real issue here, of course, is what we are going to allow to develop in future and what have we learnt from our experiences since Federation, particularly since the advent of television and the high cost of conducting a campaign. I think it is relevant to quote from what a  Senator O'Connor  said when he introduced the first Commonwealth Bill in the Senate. As VicePresident of the Executive Council he said: 
If we wish to secure a true reflex of the opinions of the electors we must have a system which will not allow the choice of the electors to be handicapped for no other reason than the inability of a candidate to find the enormous amount of money required to enable him to compete with other candidates. 
That is exactly what will happen in Australia. It has already happened and it can be pointed to at recent elections in Australia- both national and State. Candidates now, of course, are all being prejudiced by their inability to raise the enormous amounts of money which are donated to their opponents. I do not put forward as a grizzle that the Labor Party traditionally has not been able to raise the huge sums of money which our opponents have been able to raise. The laws have been there and they have been broken. Nevertheless, the people who have been able best to exploit the system have been the conservative forces of this country. 
We can rise here and make allegations about the millions of dollars paid to the. conservative parties by the Shell Company of Australia Ltd, the Bank of New South Wales and Mount Isa Mines Ltd, and to some extent those claims may be accurate. But until such time as we carry out the spirit of this Bill and until such time as details are laid on the table of this House as to who is or is not making political donations, we can continue to make the allegations and people will believe us. On the other hand, the Opposition can make similar allegations about the Australian Labor Party. But I doubt very much whether anyone in Australia would believe that the 3 companies that I mentioned would dare put pen to paper to send cheques to the Australian Labor Party for election purposes. So, we must live with this era of allegation, of innuendo and of dragging the Parliament and parliamentarians in our society under our system down in the mud because we refuse to face up to reality. 
Someone once described this legislation, of which the present Bill is one, as the Watergate Bills. I think that statement perhaps overestimates the effect of what these Bills may achieve. Nevertheless, one cannot disregard the enormous impact that the Watergate incident had on the American people. We know that Watergate occurred because of the manipulation of the backers of the political parties and of people who were breaking the laws. Let us look at what has happened in Australia in this regard. In 1 970, for instance, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  asked the then Minister for the Interior,  Mr Hunt,  who was responsible for electoral matters, how many members of the then Government had breached the laws by not filling in their electoral returns. It would come as a surprise to no member of this Parliament to find that amongst those members were several Ministers, including  Mr Hughes, Mr Snedden, Mr Nigel  Bowen,  Mr Wentworth  and  Mr Peacock.  Those were the Ministers among the 9 members of the then Government who had forgotten or refused to fill in the necessary declaration or who had taken the stand as so many members before them of saying that the filling in of a declaration that they had each spent only $500 in the course of a House of Representatives election campaign was an absolute farce. So, the laws of the past have been inadequate. They have not faced up to the needs of the situation. 
Australia has a tradition that there should be some equality about the manner in which an election is approached. Why should people outside the political arena have this enormous influence on what happens within the political arena? Why should one candidate be so prejudiced in his efforts to be elected to this chamber by the fact that he is unable to attract to his support those who can write cheques for vast sums of money. We are not stopping that system although, as I have said to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on many occasions, we should be seeking to stop completely all private donations to political parties, politicians and candidates. The laws relating to the media should be changed to permit political parties enough time to express correctly, properly and constructively to the people their views, so that we can get away from the 'soap advertisements ' which have now developed in Australia. We should say that each political party according to its support at the previous election should be given that right by the laws relating to the media and that the funds required are supplied by the Government. I do not take one step back from that suggestion. The honourable member for Curtin referred to the system that ought to be adopted in Australia. The provisions of this Bill do not go that far. All we are saying is that we recognise what is going on and that the people of Australia are entitled to know. 
We are entitled to know, for instance, when the National Country Party announces that it is seeking $lm in contributions, as it recently did, where that money comes from. We know what that Party is going to do with that money, that Sim, which will come to that Party. We understand that its traditional supporters, the beef producers, are not going all that well and obviously they are not going to provide those funds. Who is, and for what purpose? It seems to me that there is great justification in espousing the cause of the disclosure of donations to political parties in Australia. Very few members on this side of the chamber have had experience in the raising of funds. Very few of us have been asked to keep confidences about what goes on between donor and political party or employee of political party. On this question this country and its politicians are heading into a maze from which we will never emerge if we do not adopt the measures which the Government has put forward at this time. At least our proposals, if adopted, will enable people to know who is backing each political party and for what purpose. 
The trade unions never hide their contributions. One has only to look at their balance sheets. In my opinion, every trade union would be included in my proposal and would be barred from making political donations. As the system stands at the moment the trade unions are the only organisations which disclose their donations. Have a look at the balance sheet of any trade union; political donations are set out therein. Obviously trade unions do not provide funds to their traditional opponents, the conservative forces of this country. 
The honourable member will see those details set out in their balance sheets. He can ring up the secretary and he will be given the information. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member for Griffith will cease interjecting. 
The honourable member for Griffith says that we are their Party and that they ought to disclose their donations. I agree. But the honourable member's Party is the party for the Shell Oil Company of Australia Ltd and the Bank of New South Wales. Those companies ought to disclose that fact because they are owned by and operate on behalf of shareholders. Some of our supporters happen to be shareholders in such companies and they ought to be told that some of their money invested in these companies is being used to support their political opponents. But these great citadels of honesty and of private enterprise are not game to disclose to the people of Australia how much in the way of political donations they make in this country or where or when those donations are made. That is all we ask. We ask for the adoption of a realistic approach to political expenditure in Australia. 
To say that someone has to conduct a campaign for the House of Representatives with $500 only or for a Senate election with $1,000 only is an absolute farce and all honourablemembers opposite know it. They believe they must attack these measures before there is any future election. Someone has said that we are only taking this action because it is for the benefit of the Australian Labor Party. It is for the benefit of the 13 million people who live in Australia to know whether we are above board or below board. If we are under suspicion, we are placing ourselves under suspicion. The people are not doing that. We are doing it to ourselves. We are doing it to those people who served previously in this Parliament and to those who will serve in this place after we have gone; we will be condemned for it. 
The opportunity is presented to us in the Bill, which has again been introduced by the Minister for Services and Property, to adopt policies which can be beneficial to all of us. As I said, the legislation does not go far enough, but it does allow people to make their donations and makes it mandatory for the source of any donations to be disclosed and for people to be honest about their donations. It allows each of the candidates and the political parties to have an increased ceiling of expenditure and that amount ought to be enough. How sick are we to allow political propaganda to become in this country because we have adopted all the suggestions of the market research people and of the slick advertising people? We do not go on radio and television and make a serious contribution to political debate about the questions that ought to be debated by the people of this country at election time. We go on for 30 seconds with some slick message. The Australian Democratic Labor Party used to show Chinese soldiers marching across the Sydney Harbour Bridge. That is the way we try to persuade the people of Australia how to vote. 
The laws relating to the media and to electoral matters are treated with greater urgency by and receive more attention in this Parliament than most other measures which come before it. Members opposite would be doing themselves, this country and their political parties a great service by supporting this legislation. But they are going to back down from that support because most of them do not understand what is involved. They run their own local parish pump election campaigns but do not know what is going on between the national leaders and the major contributors to party funds. They do not know what is going on between the political machine and the major donors. They do not know what commitments are being made. 
Because I have been through it. 
Yes, and the honourable member would do very well to listen. One of these days he will read what I have said and say: 'How right that was'. The millions and millions of dollars which have been paid to the National Country Party and the Liberal Party by major companies will be exposed. These funds have not been provided by the citizens of this country whom honourable members opposite say they are protecting here and representing here by the policies that they propose. Honourable members opposite are representing the major cartels and the multinational organisations. They are not game enough to rise and say: 'Yes, we are. Here is a record of the money that they have given us to conduct our campaigns of vilification against our political opponents*. If the Labor Party, the trade union movement and our other supporters are prepared to put on the line where funds donated to the Labor Party come from, why are not honourable members opposite? What are they hiding? The traditional stand will be again taken by the conservatives. They have to protect their backers, especially now. Their major backers do not want any interference by government in the way in which they conduct their affairs. From 1949 until 1972 they had things all their own way. They do not want any government interference. That may just happen to impose some sort of handicap upon them. How stupid and how ridiculous they are to maintain such a stand. If we do not adopt these measures now they will be adopted by another Parliament in the future and, in adopting them, that Parliament in the future will condemn the stand that we have taken and we will be ridiculing ourselves and opening this Parliament and each individual in it to all the innuendoes and allegations that will be made in the future. 
I wish to refer to one of the most significant political events that took place during the winter recess of the Parliament. As we have seen the Opposition drift further to the right in its statements and as we have tried to analyse the criticism that it has made of Government programs, we have been able to observe that it has put up nothing in place of these programs or said what it would do if it were in government. 
I think one of the most interesting statements to be made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  since he became Leader of the Opposition was that made at the Press Club luncheon and reported in newspapers on 1 August. I want to quote what he said because it may be of interest to some of the other members of his own Party and of the National Country Party of Australia who have not already read what he had to say on their behalf. He said: 
We reject enforced equality in the work place, in the economy, in education. 
We have been unable to get either the Leader of the Opposition, any of his shadow Ministers or indeed any of the members of the Parties opposite to tell us exactly what they mean by not enforcing equality. Obviously it is a direct criticism of the manner in which this Government has carried out its program. I want to go through some of the programs of the Government so that we can see what would happen and what the Opposition would do should it ever return to government. I know at the moment that members of the Opposition think that they are high flyers because the computers tell them that they are more popular than we are. The computers told them that in April of 1974 and they are still sitting in the same place as they were sitting in April of 1974. One of the great strengths of this Government and one of the things that will hold it in good stead in any future campaigns will be the community programs which have been carried out and which are now threatened to be destroyed by a conservative government. 
Let us have a look at the manner in which the previous Government did not enforce equality in this country and will not enforce equality when it returns to government at some time in the future. It may be of interest for honourable members opposite to know that when the Australian 
Schools Commission did a survey on the Australian schools system after we took over after 23 years of government by the present Opposition there were no fewer than 809 government schools classified as disadvantaged and no fewer than 211 Catholic schools classified as disadvantaged, making a total of 1020 schools with a total enrolment of almost 400 000 children that were going to schools classified as disadvantaged. This is a situation to which we could return if the Opposition should come to power. It would consider the operations of the Schools Commission and the classification of schools as something not in the best interests of Australia- as something that we are trying to force upon the community. 
Let us have a look at what it meant. Most citizens of this country get their opportunity at the beginning- at school or pre-school. It is too late after they have finished their schooling. Whilst the Liberal Party and the National Country Party might be critical of what we have done, I ask them to remember the mess in which they left us. There were 400 000 children who were just disadvantaged; there were many other schools on the border but those children were the ones whom the Schools Commission thought it could help most readily. But under the previous Liberal Government almost half the number of children who went to university or colleges of advanced education came from 17 per cent of the community- the professional classes. Sixty per cent of the Australian community made up of the skilled and the unskilled- the manual workersprovided 20 per cent of the intake. That was an enormous waste. It was an absolute waste of ability of children who were going to those schools. Let us recall what  Dr McKinnon  had to say some time ago in relation to equality of education. He said: 
Equality of opportunity does not mean conformity or levelling down. In an equal situation there will, of course, be high flyers and slow plodders within all groups of children. Equality does mean, however, that there ought to be roughly the same proportion of good, bad and indifferent students among all groups in the community. 
He goes on to say: 
Should children from disadvantaged suburbs not have opportunities to complete secondary school and university simple because their parents are poor? Is there really evidence that they are less able? 
Of course what has been exposed by the Karmel Committee report and the carrying out of the policies by the Schools Commission is that those children are not less able. The figures which I cited about entries into universities and colleges of advanced education will change as a result of the policies of this Government. But if the Liberal and National Country Parties return to office we will return to the old system because we cannot have enforced equality. The Leader of the Opposition promised in his speech 'an exciting approach to choice in education'. For 23 years we have had a look at that excitement. We have had a look at how the community lived with that excitement. We see the policies indicted by the way in which they were carried out at the end of 1972. 
Let us look at some of the other areas. In going through what one might analyse as 'enforced equality', I suppose that the Liberal Party would regard Medibank as enforced equality. What did it have at the end of 1972 when it went out of office? There were 113 private health schemes. There were 1 1 3 separate and distinct administrations and 1 500 000 people living in this country with no health coverage. I repeat, there were 1 500 000 people involved. At the time of the introduction of Medibank, working people were paying as much as professional people for the right to have some sort of health cover. Are honourable members opposite saying that the introduction of Medibank is enforced equality? Is Medibank to be dismantled whenever a conservative government returns to power in this country? Spokesmen on the other side of the House have a responsibility not to leave it at the statement: 'We will not have enforced equality'. They are expected to detail what they would do in office. For too long honourable members opposite have been saying that it is not their responsibility to say what they would do- that they are just here to criticise the Government. Medibank covers 13- million people. What are honourable members opposite going to do about it? The Schools Commission gives all children an equal opportunity. 
What are honourable members opposite going to do about the Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory? Are we to understand that this is another instance of enforced equality which never took place under previous conservative governments? Would that event of last Saturday have taken place under a conservative government? Would honourable members opposite have looked on that event also as enforced equality? Let us look at child care which was so miserably neglected under the previous Government. Report after report by professional people shows that it is absolutely essential to give the child an opportunity at school and to give them pre-school education and pre-school care for the assistance of the family and for the benefit of the child. Nothing of any significance happened under the Liberal Government. We are trying to do something. We have planned to ensure that all children are catered for in child care centres by 1985. Is that enforced equality? Is this a waste of resources to assist the families around this country? Honourable members opposite should say what they mean. 
Between 1949 and 1972, the standard rate of the age pension fluctuated between 18 per cent and 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. Whenever it reached 20 per cent and looked like going higher, in that year the conservative government of the day would give no increase to the pensioners. If there were to be an election, the government would look upon it as a time to give a substantial increase. We said when we came to office in 1972 that the age pension should be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. One also has to look at what has happened to average weekly earnings since 1972. As has been stated in the House many times, average weekly earnings have risen much faster than the consumer price index. So I think that not only have we kept our pledge to make the pension 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, but we have kept pensions at a much higher rate than was expected in December 1972. Is it the intention of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party to reduce the pension rate from 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? Is that giving the pensioners of this country too much equality? Are we enforcing standards on the community which are unacceptable to the Liberal and National Country Parties? It is the opinion of a lot of people in this country that perhaps spokesmen opposite should say a little more in detail about what they mean and what they are going to do should they ever return to office. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

It was not the intention of several honourable members on this side of the House to speak to this Bill tonight. Sitting here listening to the views put forward by spokesmen from the Opposition, it became crystal clear that this Bill was being used as a vehicle to turn Australia back to the debates that we have had since 1949- debates on the Petrov affair, Vietnam and foreign bases. As there is no longer reason for debates on Vietnam, South-East Asia or Indo-China we are now getting back to the bases. We have gone the full cycle. We have to take seriously the views of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who has just concluded his remarks, and the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  because they happen to be the two very distinguished visitors from Australia who were the last people to shake hands with  President  Thieu and Lon Nol when they were still in office. Those poor fellows, representing democracy in their own countries, got away with only $100m worth of gold between them. They were fine defenders of what the Liberal Party and the Australian National Country Party stand for. It is significant that so much attention has been paid to this debate by spokesmen opposite. Since the liberation of China they no longer can proceed with the 'fear of Asia' debate which had been with us since 1949. They now seek a return to the debate on bases. It becomes a test of where every individual stands, where every party stands, where every group stands. Everybody receives a tag for what they say about American bases. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who has been quoted here quite a lot, was perfectly correct: The Agreement will not be signed in future. No government, in its right mind, would again sign an agreement such as the one which was signed in 1963. The Opposition would not sign such an agreement; we would not. It is about time that members of the Opposition stood up and said so. Honourable members opposite talk about what will happen in 1988 but I point out that very few of us, travelling economy class, will be here to put up with it. Many of us will not be here to determine what decisions will be reached. 
Members of the Opposition still refuse to recognise what is happening in the world, especially in our part of the world. At a time when the super powers- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America- have nuclear arsenals that can destroy the world one hundred times over, a little rational debate about what part a country plays in its own policies about what influence it may have in its own region and about how it may be able to persuade in some small way the actions of the super powers, is extremely important. There can be no doubt from any unbiased observer's point of view that the attitudes and the policies of the conservative parties in Australia over our relations with Asia were totally wrong. The sacrifice of 490 Australian lives in Vietnam stands condemned as a pinnacle of Liberal Party policy. 
The Agreement on the North West Cape was signed in 1963 when, by stealth, we were sending military advisers into Vietnam. As it turns out, it was not the Americans who asked us to go into Vietnam; we asked the Americans to let us go into Vietnam. It is this sort of feeling and this sort of environment that existed in the mid-1960s under a Liberal-Country Party Government. It was all for home consumption. There was no world diplomacy about it. No standing up for Australia's own rights was involved. It was merely for home consumption for political purposes each 3 years because the then Government was doing very well out of it. The attitude of the then Government was: 'It is better to fight them up there than down here. Let us drop napalm on the Vietnamese, on the Cambodians and anybody at all as long as we are convincing the people of Australia that unless we do it they will be down here to take over this country'. Those countries happen to be liberated and the policies of those countries and the countries nearby happen to be changing very radically. One could go back over the attitudes. 
It is interesting that members of the Country Party- the steerage of the coalition- get up tonight to speak. For many years members of the Country Party said: 'Do not recognise China. Do not go near China. Just let China buy our wheat'. I go to China as frequently as I am able to do so. One trips over Australian farmers in China; one cannot move without running into bus loads of Australian farmers. They are all probably deducting their expenses from their tax. People must look at the role that we can play. We are not near Washington and we are not near London. We are part of Asia and we can have some influence on it. For years the Liberal and Country parties said that the Labor Party was wrong on Vietnam. No one has said seriously tonight that we were wrong. From now until 1988 the basis of the Opposition argument will be 'Labor Party, you are wrong'. In 1988 the present Opposition wa run away from the issue. The Opposition will not say- no spokesman has said itthat it would sign another agreement such as this or that it would propose to sign further agreements. 
The honourable member for Kooyong, who took his full 20 minutes - 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What was the number of enrolments in (a) the present 127 Electoral Divisions, (b) the proposed 12 South Australian and 5 Tasmanian Divisions having the names and boundaries approved by the House of Representatives on 2 1 May 1975 and (c) the proposed 45 New South Wales, 34 Victorian and 18 Queensland Divisions having the names and boundaries approved by the House of Representatives on 22 May 1975, as at an appropriate date in June 1975. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a statement appearing over the weekend that Medibank will be abolished? Can he say whether there have been subsequent efforts to offset an unfavourable public reaction by suggesting that this statement was untrue? Will he do all he can to see that Australians are made aware of the precise nature of the threat to Medibank - 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise this morning in this debate to raise some questions which have become relevant as a result of actions, firstly, by the Senate, according to my own reading of events which took place in this Parliament years ago, and culrninating, secondly, in the events in the Queensland Parliament in the last couple of weeks which resulted in both the character assassination of  Dr Malcolm  Colston and the election to the Senate of a  Mr Field,  a person who was selected supposedly as a Labor Party member to represent the Labor Party in the Senate. 
As one of those members who came here in the group elected to the House of Representatives in 1974, it seems appropriate to look at some of the responsibilities that we have if we believe in upholding the role of Parliament and if we believe in selling ourselves and selling our system continuously to the community as being the best system that yet has been devised as a parliamentary democracy, observing the ways in which we are carrying out those duties, whether we are doing those duties successfully and whether the criticisms of parliaments and the inadequacies of our parliaments are the legitimate aim of people outside the Parliament who criticise the actions that we take. 
I do not think anybody in either of the 2 Houses of Parliament here would have the gall to stand up to defend the actions which have been taken by the Queensland Parliament in respect of the 2 specific actions which have been taken by it. I refer first to the use of parliamentary privilege to assassinate the character of Mal Colston, a person who has worked extremely hard in the political field as it operates in Australia as a member of the Australian Labor Party, who has stood for the national Parliament on no fewer than 2 occasions, and who has accepted the ups and downs of political life in this country. He had to withstand being defeated by a few votes at the last Senate election and now he has to withstand the complete might of the privileges of the Queensland Parliament and to try to defend himself against it outside the Parliament- - something that is very difficult and perhaps impossible to do. So, we in Canberra can look upon the way in which the Queensland Parliament has been used and perhaps relate it to what might happen in Canberra if the Queensland Premier happened to be the Prime Minister. Perhaps then we would see the privileges of the national Parliament of Australia being used in much the same way. 
I relate this directly to what is happening, with the encouragement of the Opposition Parties, to the role of the States and the use of those privileges, and to the character assassination not only of  Dr Colston  but also of  Mrs Gail  Wilenski, whose name was added to the list yesterday and earlier today. I relate it also to what will happen in the future. I must say that, as one of those people who have paid some attention to the privileges which this Parliament and the other Parliaments of Australia have and the responsibilities which they have, as a citizen and a representative of the citizens in my electorate, it becomes increasingly important to me that more people in this Parliament pay attention to the manner in which those privileges are used. If the Parliaments are to have spokesman after spokesman, day after day and month after month, use the privileges of the Parliaments around Australia to assassinate the characters of people outside who have committed no offence that can be tried in the civil courts by people trained injudicial matters, then we have only ourselves to blame if the Parliaments and the system of Parliament are condemned by people outside the Parliaments and we will have to find another system in which those sorts of privileges do not exist. 
I also relate these remarks to the calling of  Mr Gerry  Karidis before the Senate as part of the investigations that took place some months ago into what is now commonly called the loans affair. In looking back at the manner in which Parliaments have used their privileges, I join a group of people who consider that something ought to be done to define those privileges. I am one person who would not be happy- I know that there are many others, both here and in the Senate- to put my hand up to support the calling of a person before the Bar of the Parliament to enable the Parliament to carry out some sort of trial at which at the moment even that person's right to be represented by counsel has not been determined. Looking back into the 1950s at the Browne and Fitzpatrick case, it might be relevant to see what Browne had to say. Perhaps from this honourable members will see that they ought to consider what they are doing to the Parliaments of the country by the carrying out of yesterday's decision of the Queensland Parliament, by the calling of  Mr Karidis  before the Senate on the loans affair and by their attempted character assassination of  Mrs Gail  Wilenski, in terms of what respect Parliaments or parliamentarians can expect from people and organisations outside. I quote the following from the words of Frank Courtney Browne when he was called before this House on 10 June 1955: 
It is considered the right of every Australian citizen charged with an offence that he, first, must be charged; and secondly, he must have legal representation. That is denied to me even here. He must have the case against him proved, and he need not answer incriminating questions. Then there is the fact that he must have the right to cross-examine his accuser. And lastly, he must have the right to appeal. There is also another inherent right which is always observed in every court in this Commonwealth, and every court where there is any reasonable conception of justice- that he shall present his case in an atmosphere which shall not have had the effect of prejudging him before he comes in. 
The words of Browne could well have been the words of Karidis. For how much longer will the Parliaments continue to allow their privileges to be used in a way that eventually must be detrimental to the role of Parliament? Parliament has privilege accepted only because it is used so rarely, but if that privilege were used to call people before the Parliament daily it is the sort of privilege that would not stand up and it is the sort of privilege which people in Australia would not tolerate. It is the sort of privilege which can be defined. Only the good will of members of Parliament serving at any given time to interpret the privileges of Parliament is required in order to define what should happen. Perhaps a person who at some time may be called before the Parliament should judge whether he should be represented by counsel and should judge who should answer the questions. The way the Liberal and National Country Parties are operating in this country today, they are condemning the parliamentary system to failure; they are asking the people of Australia to condemn Parliament, parliamentarians and the role they play. Honourable members opposite should not point the finger at the Australian Labor Party if people outside the Parliament say: 'We are going to settle our industrial, political and social questions outside the Parliaments because we do not hold you in the respect in which you think Parliament should be held '. 
Honourable members opposite are dragging the Parliament down into the mud. It is no good the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  saying: 'I tried to influence  Mr BjelkePetersen;  I tried to influence the Queensland Liberal Party'. What they did in the last week was absolutely disgraceful, not only because they did not replace the late  Senator Bert  Milliner with a Labor senator but also because firstly they tried to assassinate the character of the Labor nominee and then they put up a supposedly 
Labor nominee of their own choice. That person will not come to this national Parliament as a Labor nominee. He will come here covered by a term which is used traditionally in the Labor Party of which all honourable members are aware. He will vote, according to the interviews he has given, to bring about the destruction of this Government. In letting this be done honourable members opposite will be bringing about the destruction of the Parliament itself, because the people cannot hold respect for traditions which parliamentarians themselves do not respect. All these questions ought to be looked at. Honourable Senators ought to tell their own Parties, instead of trying to influence them. They should lay down the law in their own Parties as to those traditions that have to be followed without choice and without question, so that people outside the Parliaments know exactly in which way the Parliaments will operate. 
-A debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury seems an appropriate time to look at the Treasury as it is the most important Department, and at the way in which we managed to overcome the problems inherent in our community. It goes without saying of course that there has never been a budget which has pleased everybody or which has transformed the economy overnight. Great political justice has been applied to the manner in which the Treasury has operated in this Budget, especially in terms of the Medibank system which was opposed by the Opposition and in terms of the taxation concessions which were so much exploited by high income earners over a long period when the present Opposition was in government. There does seem to be a distinct lack of understanding of the problems that beset other countries and which have had their effect in Australia. There seems to be a distinct lack of other than what we might call conformist economists working in Treasury. 
Recently there has been a great deal of discussion about the system under which we live, the system we have come to describe as capitalism. Recently in the great socialist magazines,  Time  and  Newsweek,  questions have been raised as to the operations of this system and whether the injustices inherent in our society can be overcome within the system under which we live. I should like to quote extensively from  Time  magazine because it raises a number of questions as to whether or not political parties in this country will continue to allow the injustices that I refer to and as exposed by the Henderson Committee. Professor Henderson found that no less than 12 per cent of our community lived below the poverty line. It also raises the question as to whether we can continue to watch the Aboriginal people live in poverty and whether we are accurate in our assessment of the cost of Medibank, whether Medibank be a justice or not. There is no question of that on this side of the Parliament but the other side of the Parliament questions Medibank because of what it may cost. It seems to me that the community of Australia would want Medibank irrespective of the cost because it provides great medical and health justice for all people in the community. 
Like America itself, the capitalist system is now approaching its bicentenary, as is the printing of Adam Smith's book entitled  The Wealth of Nations.  As honourable members would know, this book readily became a capitalist declaration of independence from the remaining shackles of feudalism and helped to launch an economic revolution that has produced far more wealth than man had amassed in all previous history.  Time  magazine states: 
Yet today the heirs of that revolution cannot celebrate in triumph. As capitalism approaches its bicentennial, it is beset by crisis. Increasingly, its supporters as well as its critics ask: Can capitalism survive? 
It may well be that the question that ought to be asked in Australia is whether the system that we have lived under all our lives Will continue to provide for the community the type of society that we want to see for our children and for their children to come. The United States of America is looked upon by everybody, including members of the Opposition who see as their god private enterprise and who see as their god the training of people to think in conformist views. 
-My god is justice for aU the people who live in Australia. Of course the society in which we are living at the moment just does not give that justice. Honourable members opposite should take time out to read about the people they represent in the country towns. They have ignored those people. Ever since I became a member of this Parliament, I have never heard a National Country Party member ask one question about education, one question about health or one question about poverty. So much for their concern about the people in this country. The  Time  article continues: 
The question- 
As to whether or not the present system can survive- is all the more urgent because the United States, by far the most powerful capitalist economy, is recovering from its recent debilitating bout of inflationary recession and faces a particularly uncertain economic future. Production is beginning to rebound. Officially, the unemployment rate fell from 9.2 per cent in May to 8.6 per cent in June. But that was a statistical fluke, reflecting the imprecision of the Government's methods in measuring the number of students entering the job market for summer. Thus the jobless rate could well go up in the months ahead. Most experts expect the rate to stay above 8 per cent for at least another year and not dip below 7 per cent until 1977. 
Bringing it down faster might well require surges in demand that would kick up a new, probably more devastating inflation. There is a gnawing fear that capitalism has no way to cure inflation except deep recession, and that any concerted attempt to lift an economy rapidly out of recession will only fan inflation. 
So what we are talking of is curing some of the economic ms of the system under which we liv with human sacrifice- by putting people out of work, by ignoring the poverty they live in and by perhaps ignoring completely the people who are underprivileged and are forgotten about by both politicians and by political and economic systems. 
Obviously this is the type of system that will not continue. It seems to me that perhaps more questions ought to be asked about the way we plan what will happen in Australia. Business after business, primary producer after primary producer, are continually at the door of Government seeking straight out economic assistance. If it is fair enough for the Government to reach decisions which give them that sort of economic assistance, then it seems to me to be fair enough for the Government to have some say in the manner of operations that will go on in those enterprises. Obviously none of us should sleep lightly on the fact that there are people living as Professor Henderson has pointed out. But there are a lot of people- intellectuals and young people- who contend that capitalism at best can build only a rich, not a just society.  Time  magazine states: 
In January seven Nobel prize winners, including Economists Gunnar Myrdal and Kenneth J. Arrow, signed a declaration condemning Western capitalism for bringing on a crisis by producing 'primarily for corporate profit. ' They called for an intensive search for 'alternatives to the prevailing Western economic  systems '. 
Of course, when speakers from the other side of the chamber as well as from this side point to the economic ills of our society and of our system what they are in fact doing is raising questions as to the success of the system which we have lived under for 200 years. More people ought to question it and more people ought to be working in the Treasury, putting up alternative ideas in regard to the system which brings about these ills. 
I understand that now it is respectable in 1975 to quote from the works of Karl Marx; I do not think that he was ever a member of the National Country Party. But during the 1950s and 1960s if a person ever quoted from Karl Marx he would receive a McCarthy type onslaught and investigation conducted by the Liberal and National Country Parties. We would have a sort of Petrov inquiry because he was quoting somebody who was unacceptable, who challenged the system and who asked people to think about what ought to be done. Marx, of course, in summary, reckoned that capitalism would pour out more goods than workers could buy with the paltry wages that the system paid then. Of course, this applies today. Honourable members opposite seem to have a great liking for citing the figures in relation to average male weekly earnings. They say that these are $160 a week and make it sound as if everybody in Australia receives an average of $ 1 60 a week. We in this Parliament are paid a salary of $400 a week. That is put into the melting pot. Some people in the PubUc Service are paid $600 or $700 a week. That is put in the melting pot. Judges are paid $800, $900 or $1,000 a week. That is put in the melting pot. Those salaries are put into the melting pot together with the wages of people working on councils and in country towns who may be receiving $85 or $90 a week. The fact is that 64 per cent of the members of our community in 
Australia do not receive an income equivalent to the average weekly earnings. 
As I said at the outset, there is great justice in the political application of what has been done in this Budget. I do not think that it would have been done had it been left to the Treasury. It needs political motivation to bring some of these things to fruition. The members of the community, irrespective of the attitudes that are expressed by honourable members opposite, will not allow you to dismantle Medibank. They will not allow you to forget the under privileged people who were put in that sort of position during your 23-year regime from 1949 to 1972. They will not let you forget what Professor Henderson has told us about the Australian community. They will not let you forget that pensions ought to be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings so that people have some grasp at a decent living in this country. Some of the things that have been done by this Government are of great social justice. I am sure that the community will not let you undo them. 
I raise this point in the consideration of the estimates for the Treasury: Far more thought ought to be given to the makeup or the infrastructure of the present society and its inadequacies. If it cannot provide for the 13 million people in this country, imagine the difficulties it is having in other countries. The system we live under is in crisis, as has been pointed out by our Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  who is visiting overseas. Australia, the United States of America, Great Britain and the Federal Republic of Germany- all of these countries which have the same economic system have the same problems. More people ought to be trained to see how we can overcome those problems. If capitalism took over from feudalism, just as surely socialism can take over from capitalism. 
I would like to reply to a couple of comments that were made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Reference was made to the question of democracy being determined outside the Parliament. I say in all seriousness that all members of Parliament ought to realise that there is no minefield around this building. They cannot sit here in isolation and consider that whatever they determine may be the interpretation given by the population to the term 'democracy'. 
We listened to what the honourable member for Lilley said about what this chamber represents, namely, the popularly elected government, the legal representatives, the law makers. I hope that the honourable member remembers that when next in the Party room a note comes in from the National Country Party telling honourable members opposite how they are to use the Senate. Members of the Liberal Party do not believe that this is the way in which Parliament should be run. It so happens that the voting systems of the various States of the United States of America were formulated outside the Congress of the United States. They were determined by the United States Supreme Court. Perhaps a similar decision might be sought from the High Court of Australia. 
Mention was made of superphosphatewhatever that has to do with electoral reformand the car industry. Since 2 December 1972, when this Government of great reform was elected, we have been dealing with the manipulations of industries that were bestowed on us by the McEwen era. Subsidies, tax concessions and hand outs to the country have meant that enormous protection has been given to some inefficient industries in Australia. This has led to the building up of industries which really ought not to be qualified - 
Question put- 
That the Bill be read a second time. 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property: Is there any restriction under the Electoral Act on the amount that may be collected for election campaign expenses by political parties, organisations or individuals? 

 -Mr Speaker, Henry Lawson would call that speech claptrap, and I think that is an appropriate description of what the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  had to say. It is always interesting that the defence of these issues is always taken up by the Country Party. The lightweights of the Liberals who are supposed to speak on these questions always come second, fourth and sixth. Why the Liberal Party does not stand up on some of these questions is beyond the comprehension of anybody who studies politics in Australia. The Opposition talks about the amount of time it wants to discuss these measures. Let us have a look at the position which existed even before the Bills were introduced. There were public announcements by the Country Party that these Bills were going to be opposed as soon as the commissioners' reports were presented to Parliament irrespective of their findings. These Bills were opposed before they became part of the parliamentary process, yet the Opposition talks about debate. It was not even prepared to trust the findings of the electoral commissioners in any of the States. If honourable members opposite want to talk about the electoral findings in South Australia, I remind them that the Liberal Party in that State at a meeting after the commissioners brought down their report supported those findings, but it forgot that it had to jump the hurdle of the Country Party in Canberra. So the South Australian commissioners ' report was thrown out. 
Let us look at the Senate. Do honourable members want to know what people are talking about in Australia? They want to know how people like  Senator Field  and  Senator Bunton  find their way into Canberra. They want to know what rights and what conventions are being broken by State Liberal governments in appointing people to the Upper House. They want to know why this is the only Upper House that can keep provoking elections before the time for an election is due. They want to know why the Senate which takes all these political questions so seriously spent 50 minutes in debating the legislation. The Opposition applied the guillotine by will. It had all the time in the world to discuss these measures. Those learned people upstairs whom it relies upon so heavily to throw out Government legislation took 50 minutes to look at these questions because again the Liberal Party members are not allowed to speak on it. They are not allowed to present their own views. If they did the great coalition might fall into disarray and disappear. We would no longer have the parliamentary process as we know it. If the Opposition took 50 minutes in the Senate honourable members opposite should not carry on with all the nonsense in the House of Representatives that they need more time because they were opposed to the proposals before the Commissioners met, they have been opposed to them since the Commissioners brought down their report, and they have been opposed to them right through any debate that has taken place in the Parliament. They applied the guillotine outside the Parliament; they applied the guillotine inside the Parliament. They have not been prepared at any stage to look at any of the issues which have been presented in these . Bills and now they get up and say parliamentary democracy is being threatened. Parliamentary democracy! They do not know what the word means. They should ask their mentor, BjelkePetersen, the Country Party Premier of Queensland, what it means. 
Sooner or later the High Court of Australia will have to do exactly the same as the Supreme Court of the United States of America and tell the Australian people what has to happen so that in future we will not have redistributions at the behest of the National Country Party which will favour country people and result in smaller electorates. Why do we need smaller electorates in the country? The National Country Party never asks questions about education, it never asks questions about child care and it never asks questions about poverty. It does not worry about any of the major issues in the country. It is worried only about the major financial gain that can be made by the wheat producers. They are the only people about whom the National Country Party concerns itself. Members of the National Country Party should have larger electorates if they are to ignore the great wants of the country, which is what they have done. So do not let us have all the rubbish that they put up here about why they need more time. They do not need more time at all because the National Country Party reigns supreme in the coalition. While ever the coalition has the lighweights from Bennelong and all these other areas who should speak on these issues but are not allowed to - 
If they do they have to speak second or fourth or sixth. It is always the National Country Party which leads the way in these questions. But now the Opposition says that it needs more time. 
Why do honourable members opposite not have a look at the Commissioners' reports and debate the proposals on the basis of those reports? The Commissioners are not members of the Labor Party; they are people who were appointed by this Parliament to carry out a redistribution on the basis of a 10 per cent discrepancy between urban and rural electorates. And they did their job. In most of the States the Liberal Party supported them. But the Liberal Party capitulated to the National Country Party, stupidly, again as it has done year after year, electoral redistribution after electoral redistribution, and God knows why it ever needed that Party. The case is there to shorten this debate because the situation was a farce even before the Commissioners were appointed. 
Question put; 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
-I wondered why so many members of the National Country Party had not come in to listen to their Leader  (Mr Anthony).  I understand why only two members of the Liberal Party came in to listen. That is because this is one of those matters on which they have had to bow to the whims of the National Country Party in order to carry out National Country Party policy. The speech of the Leader of the National Country Party exposes the stupidity of the move earlier in the day when the Opposition objected to the short time that may be given over to this debate. On no fewer than 3 occasions he said: 'There is no point in going through this debate again'. Earlier in the day his  Deputy (Mr Sinclair),  again on the instructions of his own Party, was objecting that we were not giving them more time. 
What is the reality of electoral reform in Australia? Someone once said, and it has been repeated in this Parliament time and time again and is worth repeating again: 'The National Country Party talking about electoral reform is like a backyard abortionist talking about motherhood'. Members of the National Country Party should not talk about what they stand for and what they do not stand for because it is not as though there are barriers around the cities and Government members have nothing to do with the country. Many members of the Government spend a great deal of time in the country; they have great relations with many people who live in the country. Two of the people who represent the largest electorates in this House, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  on this side, get up and support the Government's legislation. There seems to be some great contradiction in the attitude adopted by members of the National Country Party. They are the only ones showing any interest in this debate. The Liberal Party has the little fellow from Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  sitting here. The National Country Party has told the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser):  'Do not put any of your strong front benchers up on this debate. We will remain in charge of this. There is to be no opposition to our views on these questions because our existence is at stake. We are going to keep people on the land even if it is uneconomic; we are going to keep people in country towns in spite of what poverty may result. Do not interfere with this because our existence is involved. If you want the coalition to continue'this great grant coalition as it sometimes described- 'you will do what you are told on this question'. The former Prime Minister- I refer to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)-  who is now in the House knows only too well the influence that is wielded by the National Country Party on these questions. What a joke members of the National Country Party make of the debate when it comes before the House. What an absolute farce that we are supposed to be having some sort of serious debate on this question. 
We have heard from the Leader of the National Country Party. That is the new name of the Party to which those honourable members to whom I am speaking belong. Their Party has been called various names from year to year, but at the moment it is called the National Country Party of Australia. Its members are held in the sort of esteem in which they have been held since they formed themselves into a party, but they have changed the name of the Party. Before the Commissioners brought in their report the Leader of the National Country Party was espousing coalition policy and was never contradicted by the Liberal Party. I do not blame the National Country Party but rather I congratulate it on the influence that it has. It receives 8 per cent of the Australian vote but its representation in this House is double that, and it is able to tell its major partner to keep off its heels, that it is going to run this issue. The same thing applies in regard to the question of devaluation, as the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  found out. We all know what happened on that occasion, and the National Country Party is doing exactly the same sort of thing on this occasion. 
The Liberal Party knows, in spite of the stupid arguments its members put forward, that the principle of one vote one value or the principle of a 10 per cent variation in the quota is acceptable to the people of Australia. Members of the National Country Party say: 'Look, you are putting the axe to country people'. What a stupid argument. It is not worth answering. They say: 'We have 40 000 electors in our electorates and we have to cover 100 000 square miles'. What nonsense! Half of the honourable members in the National Country Party live in Surfers Paradise. They do not even service their electorates. They never ask questions and never rise to speak in debates concerned with major issues that affect their electorates, but when debates affect the existence of the National Country Party, the grand old mare of the coalition, they are there in possum corner. Who do they allow from the Liberal Party to come into the House? They allow no one else but the honourable member for Bennelong and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns);  everybody else keeps out. 
Why does not the Leader of the Opposition speak in this debate? The Leader of the National Country Party and the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party have done so. Where are the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party? They are outside the House attending to their political wounds. Honourable members opposite should not worry about all these polls and the performance of this Government about which they talk. The jury is still very much considering its verdict on the performance of their leaders, and it will be a long time before the jury comes back. Members of the National Country Party talk about electoral reform. The Leader of the National Country Party- it is not even his shadow portfolio- is telling the Opposition and telling the people of Australia that the policy of the Opposition is that the findings of the Commissioners, irrespective of what they are, will be objected to, and he is doing that before the Commissioners ' report hits the Parliament. So we should not look upon the Parliament as being the law-making body of the land at aU, because the National Country Party has said what will happen even before the report comes in. 
Honourable members opposite talk about a mandate. Which government during the last 20 years, besides this Government, has faced 2 elections in 1 8 months? Which other government has won 2 elections in 18 months and used electoral reform as one of the principal issues at those elections? Do honourable members opposite mink that it is any easier to look after an electorate of 80 000 or 90 000 in the urban areas, as members of the Labor Party and members of the Liberal Party have to do? Those people in the country whom I know vote for us say that they never see the elected representatives of the National Country Party in the electorate. They want to know where they are hiding and they want to know why they do not represent some of the issues which really affect country people. 
Now all members of the National Country Party are going on about issues. They have been yelling and screaming for months about superphosphate. Last week a delegation from a plant which makes superphosphate and is located in my electorate came to see me. Its spokesman said: 'What is your attitude to the bounty on superphosphate?' I said: 'I am opposed to it'. The reply was: 'That is all right because we were going to tell you to oppose it. That $30m, some of which may have been spent validly on the small landholder but which basically is going to the wealthy landholder, should be spent to overcome some of the social problems in our community and not given to the rich landholders.' 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government taken any action in regard to the savage execution of 5 citizens of Spain whose crime, it seems, was to oppose the incumbent fascist regime? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has he noticed the recommendation that insurance companies should lift their premiums for third party and worker' compensation insurance to an additional $173m? Will the Government ascertain what action it can take to avoid this impost being placed on the Australian people? 
Does the Prime Minister consider it to be in the best interests of this country for encouragement to be given to the super powers to build up their respective military powers in the Indian Ocean? 
-I rise in this debate on the estimates of the Department of Labor and Immigration to refer to the schemes which have been operated by the Department over the past year. I refer specifically to the National Employment and Training scheme and to the Regional Employment Development scheme. I also wish to say a few words about the migration policies of this Government when one hears members of the Opposition decrying the efforts of this Government and when one looks back at the 23 years in which the conservative governments of this country dumped the migrants on our doorstep and hoped that everything would work out well for them as they entered the community, as they became the human fodder for the mass industries of this country and as they became the forgotten people one realises that this Government has done far more in its short term of office to assist those people once they have arrived in this country than the conservative forces did in 23 years. 
I want to stress the importance of the Government's NEAT scheme because it seems to me that for far too long it has been thought that a person would do for life the job that he did when he left school. It took this Government to realise that people have to be trained and retrained through a variety of occupations. 
-In the few minutes available to me I want to direct my remarks to the consumer affairs side of the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs. In reinforcing the views of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  I also believe the Department is going to come under increasing scrutiny and to become of increasing importance in what happens to the consumers of this country. As we interpret consumers as the people who use a commodity or a service, we are throwing the net over the whole population of this country when we talk of consumers. If we are talking in those terms, talking of the whole population, it stands to reason that this Department should receive a great deal more attention than it may have received in the past. We are speaking of the purchaser, from the child who might go to a shop to purchase a sweet to the person who is buying a home. We are talking of people who use services, such as travellers, from people who go to and from their places of work in buses and trams and other forms of public transport to the jet-setter. In the case of holiday makers, we are talking in terms of a person who hires a rowboat to use on the local river as well as those who might go on an ocean cruise. Therefore it becomes of increasing importance to consider what a government may or may not do for a country to give those people the protection they need. 
The protection that has been offered in years past has fallen short of the desires of the people of Australia. It is the intention of this Government, in legislation already passed and legislation intended for the future, to fill the gaps that have existed. Consumer protection always seems to the consumer to be an unreal or intangible thing. There can be no doubt, as all of us see the situation, that the citizens of this country are demanding that some action be taken about their rights. They want as much action in the future as they have had rhetoric in the past. With this Government, and especially with the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  I am sure that that is the sort of action they will receive. 
I want to read into this short address the policy of this Government in relation to these affairs, as set out in a speech by an Opposition member, a copy of which I have before me. They are: 
To identify, publicise and otherwise expose unfair prices or practices and the exploitation of consumers, and generally to develop the involvement of the Australian Government in consumer affairs, including the use of the purchasing powers of government. To revise, and strengthen where necessary, the legislation relating to monopolistic and restrictive trade practices, much of which has been achieved in the Trade Practices Act. 
To revise, and strengthen where necessary, the legislation relating to hire purchase, fringe banking and other creditcreating institutions, in order to control effective demand and prevent the exploitation of consumers; 
To promote the involvement of government laboratories in research and investigations for the purpose of setting standards for consumer goods, with the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs having a co-ordinating role in these activities; 
To expand Government and Government-subsidised testing laboratories; 
To interpret the Science and Industry Research Act in such a way as to strengthen CSIRO's involvement as a research organisation in new fields, particularly in consumer standards, safety, transport and environment research; 
To control, and where possible, prohibit the advertising of products which represent a danger to human health, or which release into the environment toxic or indestructible materials, or which make unreasonable use of scarce natural resources, or which have other significant detrimental environmental impact; 
To enact consumer protection laws against unjustifiable price rises and unfair methods in trade and commerce; 
To empower the Australian Parliament to make laws with respect to prices; 
To give protection to citizens from invasion of privacy by credit agencies, data banks; and 
To prohibit exemption by contract from consumer protection provisions of the law. 
Having given what has been the policy of the Party, it becomes increasingly obvious, of* course, that the Australian Labor Party over a long period of years has considered very seriously the question of how the Australian Government could become involved, perhaps co-ordinating their activities with the States in giving the protection that is necessary. 
But of course aU these policies under the one heading in our platform make one come to the conclusion that greater integration of laws and services is required. I must say that some of the adventurous schemes undertaken in the United States greatly impressed me during my visit there some years ago and in the major cities of the southern States of America I was tremendously impressed by the people doing work in what they termed legal aid offices. Many of the ideas I have, which I think can be implemented in Australia, stem from my experience of those legal aid offices. Their influence went far beyond just giving legal aid; they were in fact legal aid and consumer protection agencies. The staff did not sit in the offices waiting for customers but they went out and tried to agitate amongst the community to promote their services and to inform the people as to how they were being touched by false advertising and by prices in a store on one side of town which were well above the prices which were charged by similar stores on the other side of town. The officers also advised the community in no uncertain manner as to the interest rates being charged by the various money lending agencies in the cities. They were doing a great job, of course, in bringing up to date a community awareness. I think a lot of that can be incorporated in what we are trying to do here in Australia 
I seriously put to the Committee and to the Minister that such a system could well be put into operation in Australia that is, a combination of legal aid and consumer protection in the one office. Unlike the Opposition which puts forward the view that authorities in control of implementing the relevant clauses of the Trade Practices Act and the testing of the physical properties of consumer products should remain separate, I believe in complete integration. The British Consumer Council said in its annual report in 1 970: 
Manufacturers regularly develop new products, new methods of presentation, new marketing and selling techniques, which are in advance of general consumer experience and knowledge. 
To that extent I was rather attracted to a consumer affairs document from New York which talked of the male cosmetics market that now exists in that country. I wish to quote from this New York consumer's newsletter called  Money's Worth.  It states: 
The male cosmetic consumer is surfacing.  Revlon  and  Estee  Lauder, top names in the high fashion skin game, are fighting cap, tooth, lick and nail for the millions of dollars their research people tell them are available from men who are ready for cosmetics and skin care.  Bronzers,  wrinkle creams and moisturizers are all being peddled in terms so butch and so masculine that a  Braggi  advertisement, for instance, begins to make you feel as if you would as soon leave the house without your testicles as leave without your makeup kit. 
That is the sort of effect that advertising could have on the Australian community. As I said previously, I should like to see established regional consumer protection agencies incorporating legal aid right throughout Australia. In all the areas that we might recognise as regions we should have these legal aid and consumer protection offices- not based, as I said, on the concept of waiting in the office for the people to come in but actively agitating out in the community and advising the people of their rights and the manner in which they should go about their shopping. 
It would be difficult to participate in a debate of this nature without mentioning the name of Ralph Nader. Nader has made an enormous contribution in combating false prices and corrupt practices. For instance his book  Unsafe at any Speed  brought to the attention of the American motorist the way in which they had been conned for years. Traffic accidents were always the fault of the motorists. The nut behind the wheel theory existed in the United States. But the Congressional hearing on auto safety in 1965-66 found quite different faults and saw the way clear for the introduction of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act. The action by Nader is a classic example of what we could term 'people power'. The combining of the services of consumer protection and legal aid would give the necessary teeth to present and proposed Government legislation. 
I do not know whether the last 15 minutes were true. I am not quite sure whether the  speaker,  the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who was so sensitive about the border dispute between Papua New Guinea and Australia, is the same honourable member for Kooyong who, as a member of the Government, put up his hand to drop napalm on the Vietnamese and who sought to send - 
-Will the Minister for Health inform the House how many Australian Government health centres have been built throughout Australia? What services are available at these health centres and at what cost to the patients? 
-I ask the Attorney-General whether he can inform the House of the number of community groups, such as the environmental interest groups, which have used the present facilities of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
-I thought we were coming here this afternoon to take part in a debate on the electoral laws. One could hardly say that the contribution just made by the spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  would provoke any debate. It might provoke a fair bit of amusement but it would hardly provoke a debate.  His  contribution, as all the contributions that have been made from the Opposition both here and in the Senate, added up to nothing at all. I think one could sum up the mentality of the Opposition by referring to what  Senator Withers  said on its behalf in the Senate last year on 28 November. This demonstrates the mentality of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. He said: 
It is a fact of political life that governments do not alter electoral Acts to advantage their opponents. That is a fact of political life. Therefore, the corollary of that fact is a suspicion- I did not put it any higher than that- that when a government seeks to amend the electoral laws it is doing so for its own advantage. I put it only as a suspicion because I am trying to keep this debate on a fairly low key. 

 Senator Withers, of course, was echoing what had been the basis of the contributions made in this House by spokesmen from the Opposition, that in no circumstances would the Opposition, whether it was in regard to the redistribution Bills or the electoral laws amendment Bills, look at the legislation in any way seriously to bring about what may be a fairer and a more equitable system of electoral laws in Australia 
Of course the Opposition says: 'We have to maintain the present system because the Labor Party is after a system of first past the post'. To the benefit of the Government on this occasion, by the Opposition refusing a cognate debate on these Bills we are able to look specifically at the question of the Senate elections. The present system most assuredly can be made inoperable. The number of nominations received in New South Wales in 1974 was an indication of how Senate elections under the present system could be made inoperable. Firstly, it must be stated that there has never been any suggestion from this side of the House that first past the post voting would be introduced. What a tragedy, what a calamity if it were! We would be following all those dictatorships like the United States of America, France and Great Britain which have similar systems. Secondly, it is stupid to argue that the present system should be maintained because people want to vote with all the preferences that are made available to them. Can anyone here from New South Wales tell me how he voted at the last Senate election after the double dissolution in 1 974? Can he in aU honesty tell me the order of his preferences from one to 73? He could not tell me and he would not be honest if he attempted to do so because he just does not know. All he knows is that he voted for his own party first and that his first preference was the coalition partner. From then on he would not know where they went. So it is ridiculous to suggest that the present system allows everybody to exercise their rights as far as preferences are concerned. A preferential voting system is a good system. It can work within organisations in which people know everyone, but it is ridiculous to ask the people of New South Wales or of any State in this country seriously to vote from No. 1 to whatever number of candidates there may be in a Senate election. 
If people want to exercise their rights and to extend the situation which occurred in 1974, in the not too distant future we will see in New South Wales three hundred or four hundred candidates. At the last Senate election in New SouthWales there were about 40 party representatives and there were 30 additional candidates who nominated for the sole purpose of trying to manipulate the system because they worked out that the more candidates there were the more chance there was of defeating Labor candidates and that the informal vote would rise in the Labor-held electorates. That proved to be true. 
-Because if you look at the figures for informal votes in New South Walesyou have looked at them, which is why you are trying to consolidate the present system in its present form- you will find that in the electorates where there was the highest number of informal votes the people who have been penalised are, to be a very large extent, the migrants, the disadvantaged groups and the groups which may have some difficulty in voting from one to seventythree. I wish to cite the informal vote in some of those electorates: Banks 14.1 per cent; Barton 10 per cent; Chifley 14 per cent; Darling 16 per cent; Cunningham 11.6 per cent; Grayndler 16 per cent; Hunter 15.2 per cent; Kingsford-Smith 13 per cent; Lang 12 per cent; Prospect 14 per cent; Reid 16 per cent and Sydney 20 per cent. Those extra 30 candidates in New South Wales, which made a total of seventy-three, contributed to giving Australia the highest informal vote we have ever had in a Senate election under the present system. I put it quite seriously to the House that not only will the system be made inoperable but also we will never be able to count the votes. 
If people want to exercise their rights to prove a point- I would not suggest that honourable members opposite should laugh- and there are 300 or 400 candidates for the Senate in New South Wales, it will take 6 months for the Electoral Office to count the votes. That bastion of democracy, the Legislative Council in South Australia, which introduced for the first time at the last State elections a decent system of voting, has now adopted optional preferential voting by which one can vote for one's own team and can then vote for all the other teams in order of preference, if one wishes. But it is incumbent on one to vote only for the team one knows. That is obviously the system that will have to be introduced for Senate elections. Honourable members opposite smile to themselves and say: 'It will never happen; people will not try to twist the system so that we cannot get a result and so that we will have to wait 6 months'. We saw the fiasco of 1974 when it took 6 weeks to get a result. 
If the system is so fair, and if it reflects the will of the people, I suggest to the House that the majority of the Senate ought to be members of the Australian Labor Party, because the Government of this country is in the House of Representatives and the majority of people who were returned to this House in 1974 were members of the Labor Party. So if we want to reflect what the people wanted, the majority of the Senate should be of the same political persuasion. If we look at the number of the candidates for the Senate in 1970 and see that that number more than doubled in 1974, 1 put it to the House that we are likely to see that escalation continue in years ahead to the extent that the system will become completely inoperable. 
We have not only this area to consider. Although this is hot a cognate debate we must look at all the other areas of amendment that the Government is proposing for these Bills. Otherwise the opposition will continue to try to convince, persuade or con the Australian people that this is the best system. As we are now going to speak on all these Bills individually it rests with me only to suggest that an optional preferential system for Senate elections is one of the most important amendments to be put before this House. It is a system which people can more easily understand. They do not have to vote for people of whom they have no knowledge. They do not have to vote for teams of which they have never heard. They will vote for their political party. It has been the tradition in this country that, apart from the 20 per cent or 25 per cent of the people in the middle who change their votes from election to election, people vote out of political persuasion; they vote for their political teams and not for individuals. They will recognise their teams and vote accordingly. To suggest with any seriousness at all that people vote in all conscience from one to seventy-three, as we asked them to do in New South Wales, is absolute rubbish. The people of New South Wales will tell you that if in future Senate elections there is a ballot paper of twice the size as the one in 1974 the system will just not work and we will be forced from outside to change the present preferential system which applies to Senate elections. 
-There are a couple of very important features of the Electoral Bill (No. 5) on which I wish to comment, not the least of which is the question of drawing for positions on the ballot paper. The system which we have at the moment is such that there are members who have served in this Parliament in the past, members who are serving here at the moment and members who will serve in the future not because they have the enormous support that some of us, with our egos, think that we command from the electorate, but rather because the positions of those members' names on the ballot papers are determined by the initial letters of their surnames. There are honourable members who have experienced that type of outcome. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  have both been subjected to OUtcomes brought about by what we term in politics the donkey vote. 
In using the term 'donkey' I am not referring to the people who cast such votes. It is simply a fact of "life, accepted by all of us, that some people going to the booths to vote will vote straight down the ballot paper. In the. infamous days of the late 1950s and 1960s the Democratic Labor Party of Australia, when it was contesting elections, went out of its way at both Federal and State elections to have on ballot papers the names of people whose names began with either A, B or C. In a Federal election that lifted the Party's percentage of the national vote to such an extent that it thought it was a decent, acceptable and some sort of major political party. 
How can the Opposition attempt to justify such a- system? How can it say that when nominations ' have been called for the House of Representatives the honourable member for Curtin, whose name happens to be Garland, should appear on the ballot paper before me because my name happens to be Young? If we stood for the Senate for our respective teams we would, according to custom, draw for positions. That should also be the custom for the House of Representatives. Appearing at the top of the ballot paper can mean a substantial vote in some of the electorates now held by my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party where we are being gerrymandered and where we find 80 000 or 90 000 voters in a single Labor electorate. The position at the top of the ballot paper can be worth between 700 and 1400 votes. 
We recall quite vividly a very great member of the Australian Labor Party, Reg Pollard, who was the honourable member for Lalor, losing his position in 1966 not because the people of Lalor consciously did not vote for rum. He received thousands more primary votes than any of the other candidates, of whom there were twelve or thirteen if my memory serves me correctly. He lost his position because his name was eighth or ninth on the ballot paper. He ended up being beaten for the want of 1 per cent of the vote. It does not matter whether a candidate appears first, second, third or fourth on the ballot paper. He still gets the so-called donkey vote if he happens to appear above his major opponent. As I will point out, the Opposition Parties, who were given the idea by their great friends, the DLP, as to how to manipulate the system, intend to take advantage from this situation. 
One would think from listening to the Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Curtin, that each of us comes here because of our enormous contribution in our own little electorate, that everybody in the electorate knows us and at least 50 per cent plus one vote for us. Quite the opposite is true. We are all here because in one way or another through the various conventions and councils of our respective parties we have been able to win endorsement from our political party. So we are here as Labor Party representatives, Liberal Party representatives or representatives of whatever the crowd in the corner call themselves, and for no other reason. Not one honourable member out of the 127 who serve in this chamber is here for any reason other than that he was endorsed by his political party. That ought to be faced up to. The second thing that ought to be faced up to is that is it is good enough to draw for positions on the Senate ballot paper it should be acceptable to draw for positions for the House of Representatives. We have had the experience in marginal seats of not only political parties nominating candidates whose names begin with A or B but also of people changing their names so that they can gain top position. In some cases the top position may be worth more than the 1 per cent which I have stated. It certainly is in State elections. 
Let us look at what has been our experience in Australia. At the House of Representatives 1974 elections, for example, the Opposition parties chose their candidates so as to gain maximum exploitation of the alphabetical system in those divisions where the result was likely to be close. At those elections, in 26 out of the 37 divisions which could be said to be marginal- that is, where the wirining margin, after allowing for either actual or notional distribution of preferences, was under 5 per cent- candidates sponsored by the Opposition parties were placed higher on the ballot paper than were candidates sponsored by the Australian Labor Party. At the 1972 House of Representatives elections candidates sponsored by the Opposition parties were ranked ahead of ALP candidates on the ballot paper in 26 of the 32 divisions. The divisions in NSW where the Opposition- quite accidentally, I am sure- were placed ahead of their ALP opponents were Cook, Eden-Monaro, Evans, Hughes, Lowe, Lyne, Parramatta, Paterson, Phillip. In Victoria the seats involved were Ballaarat, Bendigo, Bruce, Casey, Deakin, Diamond Valley and McMillan; in Queensland, Brisbane, Griffith, Herbert, Lilley, Petrie- every marginal electorate; in Western Australia, Forrest, Stirling, Swan and Tangney. In almost all of these seats which we would describe as being marginal electorates we find the Opposition party candidates, if not at the top of the ballot paper, certainly ahead of the position of the Australian Labor Party candidate. 
No acceptable argument can be put forward by the Opposition parties to substantiate and justify their saying that some person should appear on these ballot papers above another person because of his surname. If people are to be representatives in this chamber and if we are to abide by the single electorate system, let the positions on the ballot paper be by chance and not by design. Perhaps some people will continue to serve in this chamber because they draw the position at the top of the ballot paper if the new system is instituted. But let it be that system and not the corrupt and manipulated system where people are endorsed by the Opposition parties merely because of their surname. 
In addition to the important issue of drawing for positions on the ballot paper, I want to refer to the question of deposits. I have always been quite apprehensive about the deposits required of candidates who stand at political elections. 
Experience throughout the world has been that a lot of the deposits have been required merely to keep people out. We have put forward a variety of amendments to these laws in Australia and the Opposition has found some reason to throw them out. If the Opposition had put forward acceptable suggestions or amendments to try to improve the system perhaps the idea of increasing the deposits in the manner we are now putting forward would not be necessary. We are not saying that the Government or the Electoral office have to be people who decide whether parties are being mischievous or frivolous in putting forward their candidates. Most people would decide for themselves, knowing the amount of the deposit. 
We decided to move these amendments immediately after we saw the nominations that were put forward for the Senate elections in New South Wales. People deliberately set out to manipulate the system to increase the informal vote in Labor divisions and so prevent the election of Labor senators. Instead of having the normal 40 to 50 candidates in New South Wales, in 1 974, we wound up with 73 candidates. Perhaps some of those people would have decided that their quest was frivolous if the deposit had been larger. I prefer another system. I would prefer to see the optional preferential system introduced so that we would not have to have deposits at all. Deposits are not new in Australia. We have had them since federation. At the time of federation, 1902, a 25 deposit was introduced. It was quite a lot of money in those days and certainly would have kept a lot of people from nominating 
As I say I am apprehensive about deposits. While the Opposition continues to insist on the system of voting to which it is adhering and while it refuses to accept the optional preferential system which is the alternative to very high deposits, it seems to me that the Government has to look at other ways of protecting the people and the system. I suggest very seriously that the Opposition parties have to look at this question. As I said earlier in the afternoon when speaking on one of the earlier electoral Bills there can be no doubt that people will set out to make the Senate system, in particular, inoperable because of the low deposit, because of the slowness of counting and because of the slowness in striking what may be the quota. The number of candidates from New South Wales and Victoria at any future Senate election may make the whole system completely inoperable. 
I refer now to the question of the closing of polling booths. I know that the Opposition gets very frantic about this. As I said earlier  Senator 
Withers said on behalf of honourable members opposite- it is not a philosophy; it is just a state of mind- that everything we do has some scheme behind it, that what we were trying to do is to adjust the system to suit the Labor Party. I do not know how closing the polling booths earlier specifically helps the Labor party and does not help the conservative parties in this country. One honourable member from Queensland who is sitting opposite can tell the House that the Queensland polling booths close at 6 p.m. One of these days those that we employ in the electoral offices will say: 'It is just not good enough. We are not going to turn up at 7 o'clock in the morning and work till midnight. It is just beyond the human resources we have available. We intend to work a normal day. We intend to work to rule'. The whole counting process will be lengthened considerably because of the volume of work that we are placing upon those officers under the present laws. 
This proposal seems to me to be just a matter of common sense. It does not seem to be a scheme to assist the Labor Party any more than the Liberal Party or the National Country Party. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  says that  Mr Lewis,  the New South Wales Premier, has changed his mind about his news release of 22 July and the amendments he intended to bring in have now been shelved. If they have not been shelved it was the intention of the New South Wales Liberal Government to introduce 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. as the voting hours. It seems to me that all we are doing is taking into consideration the welfare and working conditions of those people we are employing in the polling booths and in the electoral offices throughout the country. It is for those reasons that I support the Bill. 
I have just a few comments on a couple of matters in relation to this Bill. I think debate on the electoral Bills has been very difficult, because our request for a cognate debate on all of them was not acceptable. We could perhaps have been permitted to make reference to the effects of one Bill on the other Bills because they are very much interrelated. In relation to the attempt now to do something for people who are in hospitals by making voting facilities available to them I would reiterate what has been said so many times in this House by members from both sides, namely that the idea is not an idea that has been initiated for the first time by the Australian Labor Party. It was an idea initially of course put forward by the Liberal Party in 1971 in the proposed amendments it then had in mind but which it subsequently dropped. 
One of the poorest methods of campaigning that all political parties in Australia have now thrust upon themselves is that of going around hospitals, old folks homes and nursing homes to try to squeeze out of the electorate the very last vote that may be available to them. We do not go to hospitals with 400, 500 or 600 beds because we are interested in getting all the votes. We go there because 100 of those patients may be on the electoral rolls for what we call marginal seats. So it is necessary to go around a hospital harassing the staff and the patients to ensure that we squeeze out the very last vote available in those electorates. This is a system which we all ought to join together in rejecting because it can be manipulated. For instance, if there is a matron at a hospital, an old folks home or a nursing home whose political persuasion may be one way or another, she can give direct assistance to that political party by getting it there first, by seeing that the patients fill out the applications for a postal vote, by seeing that the party she favours is present when the postal vote form arrives or by making sure that the patient hangs on to it. It seems to me to be a system which we ought to reject because it does the patient no good. We do get in the way of the staffs of those hospitals. It seems to me that the correct method is to adopt the suggestion put forward in this Bill, to have the mobile voting facility made available through the Electoral Office on the day of the poll so that those people have facilities equal to those available to us who are fit and well enough to go to our local polling booths. To reject that proposal would be to accept the continuation, the consolidation and perhaps the accentuation of the present system. Having been through that system in as many campaigns as most people in the House and seeing the way in which it is operating it seems to me that this proposal ought to receive the unanimous support of all honourable members. 
That seems to be so only because of my intelligence and experience; it is not so much because of my looks. The second thing I want to refer to is the suggestion that has been put forward and insisted upon by the Opposition in relation to having a register of general postal voters. This is one of the poorest ideas in terms of putting anything into our electoral system that I have ever heard of. To consider that we ought to isolate away a register of people who will accept that they will have a postal vote at each election seems to me to be building into our electoral system the suggestion that we can perhaps have separate rolls. It is proposed to start off with a register for those who may want a postal vote but the process may continue so that we have registers of specific people or classifications of people throughout the community. It is the sort of thing which may start in regard to the postal voting system but it could continue into other areas of the community. For that reason it ought to be rejected. 
There has been no view put forward here that would persuade anybody to believe that there are large numbers of people being denied a vote in Australia. In fact, I cannot recall on any occasion in this House during the debates that have taken place on all the electoral Bills an honourable member's saying on behalf of even one person that that person had been denied a vote. The system as it operates now gives people plenty of time in which to apply for a postal vote and to receive it if they should want to. In fact the system has been over-generous. In spite of the criticism that has come from the opposite benches about the closing down of some of the polling booths, it seems to me in pure economic terms that the system that has operated in the past has been over-generous. 
The idea of having a register is an idea that ought to be rejected, particularly because one of the other suggestions put forward by the Government in the electoral Bills is that we should change the postal voting form at each election because we have also seen that system manipulated in the past by various candidates, again particularly those in marginal seats. I see the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  smiling. I do not know, but perhaps he has had some experience in filling out postal voting forms well before the writs have been issued because he may know who applied for a postal vote at previous elections in his electorate. We want to change the postal voting form at each election so that the system cannot be manipulated. We should reject the idea that in any circumstance we should classify one group of people, whether they be postal voters, Catholics, Methodists, black people, white people or whatever they be. We should never start a system of building into the electoral laws of Australia registers of specific voters. It is for that reason that I support the Bill and reject specifically the main amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition. 
I rise to support the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Some honourable members have to establish once and for all- even if members on the other side of the House will not join with us- who is the Government of this country, because there can be only one. The encouragement that honourable members opposite give to the Senate and to the States in the braking of conventions cannot be tolerated any longer. Since 2 December 1972 the Opposition parties, led by the National Country Party, have been determined to see that this Government should never survive. Threat after threat has been made since 2 December 1972. They led to the double dissolution of 18 May. Even when the Labor Government was returned at that poll the Opposition parties still refused to accept the judgment of the Australian people. 
How then did members opposite twist the result of 18 May? They did so firstly by asking their Premier of New South Wales to replace  Senator Murphy  with other than a Labor senator and secondly by encouraging their national spokesman on madness, Bjelke-Petersen, to appoint a person other than a replacement from the Labor Party to the Senate so that they could carry in the Senate by a vote of 29 to 28 that in deed and in fact the Senate will be the government of Australia. The people of Australia, led by the Labor Party over the last 7 days, have given honourable members opposite their answer about the decision that has been taken by the Senate. In very simple terms it is just not on and honourable members opposite know it. 
Let us look at some of the reasons why honourable members opposite made this decision. As I say they have always refused to accept the Labor Party's being in government. They wanted a parliamentary system as long as the Labor Party never won an election but once we gained the treasury bench on 2 December 1972 they had to find some means, fair or foul, to try to overturn the Labor Government. All the responsibility for what happens here on in lies with the Liberal and National Country Parties in the House of Representatives as well as in the Senate. Those 29 senators are acting only at the behest of the decision made by all members of the Opposition so they all carry the responsibility. It never ceases to amaze me that some honourable members opposite who have been in politics for so long cannot make rational and gutsy political decisions. What did they do a month ago? They sent out a team of market research people; people not even involved in politics. Members opposite said: Ask 2000 people around Australia what they think about the present Government; ask how many of them will be upset if we call an election by rejecting the Budget. At a joint party meeting called 2 weeks ago a big report was given to members opposite stating that only 3.5 per cent of those people interviewed would be upset if the Opposition rejected the Budget. How stupid can honourable members opposite be? How long have they got to be in politics before they learn that their judgment is perhaps better than the servants they send out into the community?  (Quorum formed).  In their gross stupidity, the Opposition parties acted on the advice of their market research team, whoever it includes which reported that 3.5 per cent of the people would be upset if the Opposition parties in the Senate rejected the Budget. The feeling, the intelligence and the political awareness of Australians were underestimated. In the last 7 days we have heard what the people of Australia have said about the actions taken in the Senate by the Opposition parties. It is no wonder that the Leader of the Opposition speaks a little louder this week. It is no wonder that he looks a little paler. His paleness reflects what he has seen in the streets in his travels around Australia. 
There are people thoughout Australia who want to stop work immediately to add their voices to protest about what the Opposition parties have done. They are continuing to go to work only because the trade union movement and the Labor Party have told them not to stop work, that we do not want a situation of anarchy to develop. That is the type of reaction that the parties opposite have provoked because a market research team told them that not many people would be upset if the Budget was not passed. Many of the same market research people told the Opposition parties in 1974 that they would win an election. Honourable members opposite still have not learnt the lesson. These market research people are those who go into the Opposition party room and tell the Opposition parties to destroy the parliamentary processes of this country. Let them stand for election to the Parliament; let them back their judgment in the Parliament and not act by giving the Opposition parties the advice that they have given. 
Let us look at what has occurred. What is the reason for the rush to hold an election? In any of the advertisements that the Opposition parties have run in the last week we have not seen mention of some of the questions that are now raised in this House. Once again, the National Country Party is dragging the Liberal Party to the altar. The difference is that this time it is a sacrificial altar; it is not an altar of wedlock. The National Country Party is dragging the Liberal Party there because it is horrified at the laws that this Government seeks to introduce. We propose legislation to ensure that the source of political donations is divulged and that the principle of one vote one value is introduced. Such proposals terrify the National Country Party. So it dominates the Liberal Party and drags it to the altar saying that the introduction of such laws in Australia must be avoided. That is the way in which the National Country Party operates. One of these days surely the Liberal Party will wake up to what is going on. 
In addition, we see this grand and once great coalition, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, trying to stop other legislative action besides that which is being opposed at the whim of the National Country Party. The coalition is trying to stop the consolidation of government policy such as Medibank. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who is the shadow Minister in this area, put his foot in his mouth a month ago and said that the 
Opposition parties would dismantle Medibank. We would return to the situation which existed in 1972 when 1 500 000 people in our community were not covered by any form of health insurance. The coalition wants to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office. Those 100 000 people who have been assisted by that body in the form of legal aid would have to go to solicitors, if they had enough money to do so. The Opposition parties want to stop the injection into our schools of the enormous amount of money that this Government is providing so that each child will have an equal opportunity. The Opposition parties want to stop all of these activities; that is what this matter is all about. That is what they are after. Honourable members opposite should not continue to put up the furphies that they have carried on with as to what they are seeking. 
Let us look at who is demanding the election. We have heard the Leader of the Opposition and his cohorts, including the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  say that the people are demanding an election. We have asked repeatedly: 'Will you tell us who is demanding an election?' We know that the newspapers are. The newspapers of Australia are the most monopolistic of the media in the Western world. The whole of the newspaper medium in Australia is controlled by 4 families. We know that those 4 families want an election. They are not entitled to any more say than any other average 4 Australian families. Having seen the number of advertisements that the Opposition parties have taken in those papers in the last week, we can understand why the newspaper proprietors like them. Those advertisements have appeared at a cost of $29,000 a day, over 6 days. The Liberal and National Country parties have taken those advertisements in our newspapers. They have spent about $180,000 and no election campaign is on. It is no wonder that the Opposition parties do not want to divulge where their funds come from. It is no wonder that they do not support the principle of one vote one value. The people of Australia should have explained to them where this money comes from and whom the Opposition parties represent. 
An unfortunate feature of the Leader of the Opposition is that, because he went to Oxford, he still believes in the London  Times.  We understand. But if he wants to be guided by the London  Times  he should read it every day and not just on one day. I do not think that the London  Times  has a very great bearing on political developments in this country. But if the Leader of the Opposition, because he went to Oxford, does think that it is terribly important, he should have read the edition of London  Times  on the day after the edition from which he quoted. The London  Times  is now saying that the Opposition's move has backfired and that perhaps the Leader of the Opposition will have to back down. As I say, perhaps the Leader of the Opposition should read the London  Times  every day. He did not quote  Pravda  or the Peking  People's Daily,  so we do not know what they are advising him, but apparently the London  Times  is terribly important. 
Let us look at how we have reached the present situation, following the 1974 election, in which the Opposition says the Senate has the right to throw this Government out. This Government has been elected twice in 18 months. It was elected in December 1972 and reelected in May 1974. In 1974 a result was obtained that no one in Australia wanted. The Senate had elected to it 29 senators from the Labor Party and 29 senators from the Liberal and Country parties, with 2 independent senators. That is how the Senate was constituted in 1 974. The Senate is now asking for the support of the Australian people to throw the present Government back to the polls. 
What has happened to the composition of the Senate in the meantime? Before I deal with that, let me refer first to what happened in that 1974 election. The people of New South Wales found that approximately 40 party candidates were fielded in the Senate election for that State. The Liberal Party with the assistance of the Country Party devised a scheme whereby the informal vote could be lifted for every additional candidate that they put up at the polls. The people of New South Wales had to vote for 73 candidates in electing their senators; almost 13 per cent of the people of New South Wales voted informally. Approximately 200 000 more people throughout Australia voted for the Labor Party than voted for all the other political parties put together in that election. That was the result of the Senate election which was part of the double dissolution election on 18 May 1974. 
Since then, what other conventions have the Opposition parties broken, which they think the Australian people will accept? The Opposition parties ask us to believe that Bjelke-Petersen, their national spokesman for madness, may send to us, and we must accept,  Senator Field  as a Labor Party senator. Is this a convention? Is this something that must be followed?  Senator Field  made the statement, before he arrived in Canberra, that he was coming to destroy the 
Government. They do not sound very much like the words of a Labor senator. What happened as the result of action by Premier Lewis of New South Wales?  Senator Murphy  was a Labor senator for that State. What did  Mr Lewis  do? The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has said- he seems to have forgotten his remarks in the last week- that the Senate is tainted and that the Senate is bogus as a result of the actions of those Premiers. Yet the Opposition parties are asking the Australian people to accept the way in which the Senate is constituted at present. 
In his speech on Thursday last, the Leader of the Opposition challenged us on this side of the House to go out onto the streets and into the factories to find out what people were thinking. We have all done exactly that. We are elated. We are elated at the results of talking to people in the streets, in the factories, at public meetings and at trades and labor councils. What honourable members opposite have forgotten is that Labor members represent people where factories are situated. It is much easier for us to talk to the working class and to the ordinary citizens of this country. I can tell honourable members opposite here and now that those people are right behind the Labor Party in its refusal to buckle under to this threat by the Senate to throw the Government to the wolves or to take it to the polls. This is the message at factories and wherever we go. 
A public meeting was held in Adelaide yesterday. It was the largest political rally .held in that city. It took place at lunch time. We were telling the workers not to stop work. We had the largest political rally that Adelaide had ever seen. People came from political parties right across the board- the Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the Communist Party. Members of all those political parties were there. They spoke with one voice. They said: 'Don't cop it. Fight it out. It will not be your responsibility if the whole country falls into chaos. That is a responsibility that must be accepted by the Liberal and National Country parties'. These views come not just from old Australians; ethnic groups including the Greek and Italian communities sent messages to our rallies throughout Australia. 
The Opposition parties must learn. They must not be like the Americans in Vietnam who did not know when to withdraw with honour. When the Americans did finally withdraw, they did so with disgrace. Opposition members must face the fact that it is no use yelling at their supporters and trying to keep them all in line. The fact is that the Opposition parties have made a mistake. 
That mistake has been based on the recommendations of a group of long hairs from Sydney who told them what politics is all about. Decisions ought to be made by the Opposition parties themselves. They have made a very bad mistake. The sooner they withdraw and step down from that decision, the better it will be. Some Opposition senators must say that they will not reject Supply. The Opposition parties have not even gone that far. They want to delay Supply. They do not even have the courage to carry out their convictions by saying: 'We are going to reject it'. The tragedy of the decision made by the Liberals and the Country Party last Wednesday has rebounded on them. The people of Australia are not going to accept that decision. It is better for members of the Opposition to make a quick decision to step back from that decision, otherwise, they will end up withdrawing in complete disgrace as we have all predicted. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. What effect will the action of the Senate in blocking the Budget have on Australian Government health services? 
-Could the Minister for Administrative Services inform the House of the cost of conducting a general election in Australia? Could he also inform the House whether the running of all the additional candidates for the Senate in New South Wales in 1974 added to the tremendous costs that must be met by the taxpayers? 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 1 a Bill for an Act relating to the limitation of electoral expenditure and the public disclosure of the sources of funds made available to political parties and candidates. 
-I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in support of this motion of condolence in respect of the death of the Premier of the People's Republic of China. Like so many people holding office in the parliaments throughout the world I have joined with the throng that has gone to China in recent years and have had the great privilege of meeting with Premier Chou En-lai. In speaking of this man one must of course reconcile his history with the torment of China up to 1949 and the great achievements of China since 1949. It has been an unfortunate aspect of Australian politics that the exploitation of foreign affairs during the 1950s and 1960s and the plight of Asia during that period clouded both the achievement of China and the ability and achievements of the individuals in the Government of China, one of whom was the Premier, Chou En-lai. The responsibility of the Government of China in 1949 to tackle the problems of some 600 million people, to get the industries going, to overcome the illiteracy, to overcome the enormous health problems, to overcome the poverty, then to face the trade embargoes, the hostility of much of the Western world, was a responsibility that fell very largely on the person of Chou En-lai. The internal problems of the cultural revolution took toll of his health and he came through that revolution in the same position as Premier of that country. In personal relations with Australia, he had much to do with the very important visit of the Australian Labor Party delegation to that country in 1971. He had a great deal to do with the exchange of representatives between the Labor Government of Australia in 1973 and his own country. The greatness of China in 1976 can be very directly associated with his ability and with his contribution to his own country. He was, by any political standards, a great man and he goes to his grave knowing that over 100 countries recognise his country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice of my intention to present on General Business Thursday No. 9 a Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representative elections. 
-With your direction,  Mr Speaker,  I ask the Prime Minister: Does he realise that an impost of $70 per television licence would cost the Australian consumer many millions of dollars and impose a further burden of approximately $5m on our tourist industry? 
-The last speech sounded like the result of a cross between the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the National Country Party. Firstly, allow me to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and to convey to both the  Speaker  and you my congratulations on your reelection and the election of the Right Honourable Member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  to the very high offices you both hold in this Parliament. I also welcome into combat all those newly elected honourable members, particularly those on the other side of the chamber. They will find this 30th Parliament quite different from previous Parliaments because at the end of 1975 the parties that they represent tore up the convention rule book of politics in Australia. As the Australian Labor Party has been a political party of some standing in Australia for far longer than has any other political party it is pretty obvious to observers of politics that we will be here for a lot longer than those who sit opposite. I welcome the new honourable members opposite to the combat and I hope that they have a short stay. 
Three months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised Australians he would give 'what  Mr Whitlam  cannot promise in a thousand years- government untainted with dishonesty and corruption'. Now, only 3 months later, he presides over a government whose tone is already almost a total one of broken promises, deliberate lies and now, for the first time in my memory, a prosecution involving political corruptionall this in just 3 months. We are promised steady, responsible government. Instead we have a government which is faltering, writhing this way and that in uncertainty. There will be no more grave, no more crucial decision taken by this Government than its deliberate breach of faith with the Australian people on wage indexation. That crude attempt to direct the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to become the executor of Government economic policy will be seen by historians as the beginning of the end of a government steeped in treachery. The Government apparently did not know or, as is more likely, did not care that the constitutional charter of the Commission is the -prevention and settlement of industrial disputes. Government supporters were to be the ones to win the confidence not only of their friends, big business, but the employees of Australia.  Mr Fraser  was to be a conciliator with the trade union movement. He was to win industrial peace. I ask honourable members to listen to what Paul Johnson, someone who can hardly be described as a friend of the trade unions, thinks of  Mr Fraser  's beginning. He said:  . . .  Mr Fraser  may come bitterly to regret having devalued his good faith right at the beginning of his term of office ... It seems to me incredible that  Mr Fraser  should take such a fateful step on indexation without previously consulting trade union leaders or even informing them in advance. In short,  Mr Fraser  took a very risky decision, and he took it in a way calculated to inflame the very people whose forbearance and co-operation he needs. 
Let us remember the very way that  Mr Fraser  took this fateful decision. Only a week before the announcement, Cabinet had decided to go along with the just wage indexation increase. Then, a mere week later, the complete reversal. Steady, sure government indeed. The reversal did not even find favour with  Mr Fraser  's friends, the employers. Publicly they have maintained silence, but privately they are appalled at the prospect of industrial instability which will follow in the wake of  Mr Fraser  's impetuous, illconsidered intervention. This is a government which will win not the trust but the abhorrence of the Australian people. We have a new Prime Minister, yes, but a Prime Minister who will travel a path he knows well- a path of deceit. We have heard a great deal about this Government 's style. It is some style- a style set and preserved by the Prime Minister himself. He promised Australians that he personally would set the standards for his new Government. It is the only promise that he has kept, because the broken promises, the untruths, the corruption charges with which his Government has been imbued since it gained office, again dishonestly, on 1 1 November are  Mr Fraser's  standards. That day, 1 1 November was itself - 
-! seek leave to make a short statement. 
-! wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I view the question and answer on attendance at Parliament as having misrepresented me specifically because it was not said that I was or was not at Parliament. The fact is that I was on House duty for the Opposition. There were very few members in the chamber. I am not responsible for any one of them but I can understand their non-attendance because the honourable member for Griffith was the last  speaker  and at 10.30 p.m. on Thursday last there were very few honourable members in the chamber. I was one of them; the honourable member for New England was not. He also could have gone home. 
I thank the honourable member for Canning for placing me in the history books by putting a question to me, as he may under Standing Orders. My views on political donations are well known. I suspect that I have spoken on the subject in this House on more occasions than most honourable members opposite. They may not be here long enough to make many speeches. The question of political donations was incorporated in a Bill which the former Labor Government presented twice to this House and which was passed twice by this House during its period of office between 1972 and 1975. The Bill, which provided that all political parties were to make public any donations to campaign funds, was twice rejected by the Liberal and National Country Parties in the Senate. During the debates on that Bill I expressed the opinion that the Bill did not go far enough. My own personal view is that there should be no such thing as a private donation to political parties. Political party campaign funds should be augmented out of the general revenue and the amount of funds should be based upon the percentage vote gained - 
-It should be based on the percentage vote of each political party at the previous election. 
The honourable member for Chisholm is very good and he has a couple of followers on the back benches. Not only have I spoken on these matters more than any other member in this House but also I have been involved as campaign director in more campaigns than anybody else in this House. I know all the things that the Liberal and Country Parties get up to. I know all the allegations that can be made. Whilst today honourable members opposite may laugh at the Australian Labor Party because of allegations that have been made by the Prime Minister's friends in the  Australian,  one of these days we will see in Australia an expose of political funding similar to that which takes place in other parts of the world.  Mr kodama  of Japan received $7m from Lockheed Aircraft Corporation to support the Liberal Party. Money has poured into the Italian Christian Democratic Party. All these things will come to fruition in Australia unless the Liberal and Country Parties agree to the ideas that have been incorporated in the Bill presented by the Australian Labor Party to make all donations public. 
-I draw the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to the evidence given at an Industries Assistance Commission hearing on the potato industry in Sydney on 16 and 17 February by the Potato Industry Inquiry Committee, a Victorian Government body, in which it was stated that approximately half of Australia's normal requirements of potatoes, namely 25 000 tonnes, was being imported into Australia and that prices for local produce had plummeted so badly that in Victoria alone 20 000 tonnes had been left in the ground. I ask the Minister: How can he reconcile this evidence with the January food price index in which the major contributor to the overall 3 per cent increase was the enormous increase in the price of potatoes? Further, if the benefit of the increased prices is not going to the growers, can he inform the House exactly who is getting the rake-off? 
It was not my intention to be drawn into this debate but unfortunately the honourable member who has just resumed his seat took upon himself the task of telling the Australian Labor Party that it was terribly wrong in the manner in which it went about bringing in reform in Australia. I want to give a word of warning to the Government. The way in which it conducted itself as an Opposition between 1972 and 1975 encouraged the States, or those States that were opposed to the Aus.tralian Labor Government, to play a role which they Will not find easy to discard. The Government will find that State governments, with their power and influence and particularly with their allies which are normally the morning newspapers in the respective capital cities, will, because of the role that the Liberal and National Country Parties played between 1972 and 1975, be just as active in their agitation against the present Government as they were against the Labor Government. The Government will have to put up with that and will have to find a way around it. 
Quite simply, the objective of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 was to bring to Australia some sort of uniformity of achievement, not just for people who live in one State but for the 13 million people who live in all the States and all the Territories. Our objective was that that should not occur just in one field but in all fields of life, whether it be in education, in local government or some other area which is funded by the Australian State or local governments. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  said that the Grants Commission was a disaster. I have had discussions with several council members in my area and I have never heard them describe the Grants Commission as a disaster. They found the moneys coming from the Grants Commission, based on the submissions which they made, very helpful. I would not call that exercise centralist. I would say that it was very broad in its scope. For the first time it involved these people concerned with local government throughout Australia. I would have thought that that was the sort of exercise to be encouraged and not discouraged, as is put forward by the honourable member. 
Let us look at some of the other areas which have been funded. Take, for example, schools. People have said, as Liberal governments said between 1949 and 1972, that education is the responsibility of the States. They said: 'Leave it all to the States. Do not allow Canberra to become involved. Do not let us tarnish our money by putting any responsibility on it; just hand it out and hope for the best'. What happened at the end of 23 years of rule by Liberal-National Country 
Party governments? There were a million children at disadvantaged school and some hundreds of schools were classified as disadvantaged both in the government and in the Catholic sector of education. Was it irresponsible for the Labor Government to set up a Schools Commission which trebled the amount of money spent on education? Was that a centralist scheme? Was it a terrible crime against the Australian people to see that they got a better education? 
-It has a lot to do with the speech made by the honourable member for Mitchell who has just resumed his seat. No one was listening to you. We cannot refute what you said. 
You were asked to speak for 10 minutes, so we turned off after 10 minutes. You spoke for 17 minutes, so we missed the last 7 minutes. We would like a copy of your speech. 
-I ask the Attorney-General: Further to the reply that he has given the Leader of the Opposition in regard to police actions during their inquiry at the advertising agency used by the Labor Party and also the seizure of diaries of people who were allocated as bodyguards to the Leader of the Opposition, did he have any prior knowledge of the actions that were taken by the police? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Mr Jenkins).  In view of the previous debate that took place I must say that I so not believe any tribunal ought to be given power that should rest with the Parliament, whether it be the Remuneration Tribunal or the Industries Assistance Commission about which I shall be speaking. I think that Parliament must always retain the ultimate power. Otherwise we will give power away bit by bit and there will be no need for us to meet at all. 
My concern in this debate is the uncertainty and confusion which has been generated in the business and consumer world by the seemingly unrelated statements of Ministers on how the Industries Assistance Commission Act will be administered, how the Commission will work and how its reports will be treated. The protection of Australian industry is fundamental to the policies of the 2 major parties, but there will be debate on just which industries are to be protected, for how long they will be protected and how much protection they should receive. The key feature of the Labor Party's economic policy is to ensure the optimum use of the nation's resources. That does not mean development merely for the sake of development. We must use our resources properly. 
We must recognise that we are a trading nation with responsibilities to our trading partners. It follows they that there must be a decision- a political decision- on the priorities of industries in Australia. We cannot say: 'Let us have industry X', and then refuse to pay the cost of having that industry. It takes an act of political courage to determine the fate of industries in Australia. Governments cannot simply slavishly adopt the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. That Commission is a body established to make recommendations to the Government. I will remind honourable members opposite that it was  Sir Robert  Menzies who was the chief proponent of the view that the then Tariff Board advised and the government decided. This then must not become an era of advice and consent. 
As I have said, I believe that a tariff decision is a political decision. First, I believe that a case exists for protection when national interests are at stake. I include in those national interests certain industries which are vital to the economic base of the country; industries vital to defence; industries which hold the future of technology - 
-The proposed section of the legislation will be identical with that introduced in the House during the term of the Labor Government. The audit sections are quite specific as to what they will cover, and of course that means that auditors set up by the Government must have full access at all times to accounts - 
Perhaps I could just give the House an incident that would be covered - 
Of course, all donations and all funds, set up in any manner, from which a candidate or political party would receive a donation would be covered by the proposed legislation. I would seek from the other side leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statutory declaration that has been handed to me today showing how the Liberal Party collected Stg96,000 in 195 1 in London. 
-In line with the saga of the accusations, charges and counter-charges of political donations, I have had brought to my attention today a statutory declaration which I should like to read to the House. It states: 
I, John Francis Keegan of 1 12 Jersey Road, Woollahra, Public Servant, do solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: 
During March 19S1 whilst in London I wrote to the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr. R.  G. Menzies complaining that there were no facilities at Australia House, London for registering Australian citizens in Britain for postal votes. 
1 offered to open an office on behalf of the Liberal Party to perform this task on the basis that I would be reimbursed for all expenses incurred for such an operation. 
1 also endeavoured to impress on the Prime Minister the need for such work to be done as there were an estimated 60,000 Australian citizens in Britain as 1951 was Festival of Britain Year. 
Shortly after writing to  Mr. Menzies  I was contacted by my former employer,  Sir Frank  Packer of the Australian Consolidated Press. 

 Sir Frank informed me that  Mr. Menzies  had spoken to him regarding the opening of a Liberal Party office in London and requested that  Sir Frank  arrange with me to open an office on behalf of the Liberal Party as soon as possible. 
An office was opened at 38 Parliament Street, London SW1, and an extensive advertising campaign was launched, publicising the need for Australians to register for postal votes for the forthcoming Australian general election. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Will the Minister inform the House whether a committee has been set up to review the operations of the Trade Practices Act? If so, will he give the House the names of the people appointed to this committee. If not, will he assure the House that the people appointed to such a committee will be in the majority representatives of consumer organisations? 
I would like to echo the sentiments which my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has in mind because Clyde Cameron said the other day of a speech by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that it was the most reactionary speech he had ever heard in this Parliament in a period of 20 years. It would be easily rivalled by the riff-raff we have just heard from and it is a warning to the Liberal Party that the spokesman from the Democratic 
Labor Party who come into the Liberal Partythe most extreme right wing group of this countrywill try to impose - 
I rise tonight to take up the debate that has been taking place both inside and outside the Parliament over the past several weeks regarding the future of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Again today we have seen demonstrated the differences that exist within the Government as to the future of the ABC. The only Party in this Parliament that is quite clear about the future of the ABC and what should be the future of the ABC is the Australian Labor Party. Whilst there are some spokesmen for the Government who are trying to do things in a more subtle fashion, there can be no doubt that the people of superior influence within the Government are hell bent on destroying the ABC. 
There can be no doubt about that. It can be observed in the Parliament. It can be observed outside the Parliament. The fact that we are lacking any clear statement of policy about the future of the ABC is indicative of the confused thinking about the manner in which this Government is trying to dismantle what is the only remaining sane medium, especially electronic, left to us in Australia. I have heard the ravings of the National Country Party and also the most reactionary voices that come from the Government on this matter. It is extremely important that the Australian people understand exactly what is going on. The first move that has been taken behind the camouflage of not interfering with the 
ABC has been a savage cutback in the expenditure for the ABC. Moneys that were made available to it out of the 1975-76 Budget have been reduced in addition to the extra responsibilities imposed, as has been pointed out in this Parliament, by virtue of the calling of the election of December 1975. We are seeing the dismantling of the ABC by stealth. This is what will happen. Already numbers of people have been dismissed from the ABC. 
I now call upon the expertise of a person writing in a privately owned newspaper, the  Daily Mirror,  one of the newspapers belonging to the great friend of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  Rupert Murdoch. I shall quote from an article written by Jim Oram. Listen to what he has to say today: 
The ABC is in danger. Its independence, the very reason for its existence, is under the heaviest attack in its 44-year history. 
And should the attack be successful you can say goodbye to the far-reaching probes of  Four Corners,  the dramas like  Rush  and  Seven Little Australians,  the wide coverage of sport, the superior news service. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I draw the Prime Minister's attention to his replies to questions regarding the motor car industry given on 19 February and 3 March and in which, among other things, he said: 
It is unfortunate that under the present motor car plan and the policies of the previous Administration unemployment in Geelong has been at, I think, 8 or 9 per cent. 
In reply to a question from the honourable member for Adelaide the Prime Minister said: 
The honourable gentleman would be well advised to have a close look at the present motor car plan . . . But it would result in body pressings being imported by virtually all the major manufacturers in Australia ... It could affect the employment of 1400 people ... in South Australia. 
He further said: 
How a motor car plan could be embraced which was quite directly going to lead to significant unemployment throughout the industry I find difficult to understand. 
In view of the replies given earlier on the motor car industry by the Prime Minister, I ask: As the present plan of the Government is based on the Australian Labor Party's policy announced in 1974, could the Prime Minister inform the House how, to avoid his black predictions, the present Government's plan differs from the Labor Government's plan? 
-My contribution cannot equal that made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  to the debate on the Social Services Amendment Bill, which I am sure he will continue next week. However, because time will be short for debating the announcement made by the Government about the car industry, I should place on record the history of the automobile industry in Australia over the past two or three years. Further, I think that listening to me for 10 minutes will be much better than listening for 10 minutes to anybody on the other side of the chamber. The announcement by the Government merely reaffirms all the things that the Labor Government said over the past 3 years, including its last decision in regard to the car industry. In spite of all the statements by honourable members opposite, including those of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the decisions of the Labor Government have proved to be correct. The history of the industry which I will put before the House will go into  Hansard  for everyone to read, and I do not wish to add to that history the Opposition's views about the recent announcement I understand that we will be doing that on Tuesday of next week. But because of the lack of time it is important that we should look at the development of the approaches of the McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government up to 1972 and the Whitlam Government from the end of 1972 to 1975, and at what has occurred subsequently 
Late in 1972, prior to the election of the Labor Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government decided to phase out the high local content plan by the end of 1974 and to introduce in its stead a reduced local content plan. That was at the end of 1972, before the election of the Whitlam Labor Government. In July and August 1973 the Labor Government referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the question of the car industry, with particular emphasis on the fact that at a time of shortage of local products we had a right to imports and consumers had a right of choice. The IAC was asked to look at the question of the smaller car being favoured by the consumer and the regional factors affecting the employment of people in the car industry. In June 1974 the IAC submitted its report, which was received without very much favour by anybody concerned with the car industry- the trade unions the manufacturers and/or the Governmentbecause one of its recommendations was that 15 000 people in the manufacturing sector of the automobile industry work force would have to be retrenched and find work in other industries. That recommendation was regarded at the time by the Government as being unacceptable. In July 1974, following the considered rejection of the IAC report, the Labor Government set up a committee charged with looking at what would be an acceptable policy in Australia for the future of the car industry. The committee was to consult with all affected parties. 
In December 1974 the Government announced a new policy which was essentially the same as that announced yesterday by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  Despite all the flowers and fringes that were put around the announcement by  Senator Cotton,  the policy announced in December 1974 by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was substantially the policy announced yesterday by the Minister in relation to matters such as the question of Japanese entry, Chrysler's role in South Australia and the engine consortium. It is interesting to note that at that time in 1974 General Motors, in a quite unprecedented step, took advertisements in all the national newspapers welcoming the moves that had been made by the Government. 
-by leave-The opposition regards the Trade Practices Act as being of paramount importance to the protection of consumers and proper business conduct. I give notice on behalf of the opposition that we are not going to sit idly by and watch the Trade Practices Act being dismantled either by direct Government intervention or by the more subtle means or hiding behind the recommendations of a review committee. The Trade Practices Act is in existence as a result of Australian Labor Party policy, enunciated over many years, and because of the inadequacies of the old restrictive Trade Practices Act. 
Last week in the House I questioned the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Howard,  as to the make up of the Trade Practices Act . review committee he has just announced. My concern then, as it is now, is that consumer representation has been left out in the cold. The  Chairman  of the Committee has been associated with a company that has been embroiled in several investigations of the Trade Practices Commission, involving massive price discrimination designed to destroy competition by selling goods below cost. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  might be able to inform the Minister of some of the details. Another member of the Committee is a partner of the Minister's brother in a huge Sydney law firm which acts for many business organisations which have, from the inception of the Trade Practices Act, been opposed to it. 
I would have liked to see elected representatives from consumer organisations serving on the Review Committee. The corporate affiliations of both businessmen on the Committee are with groups heavily owned and influenced overseas. All die operations of this Review Committee should be made public. There has been no public demand for this Committee from consumers or from small businesses. The Committee has been established as the result of secret promises given in smoke-filled rooms over port and cigars to the select captains of industry during the last election campaign. It is vitally important then that the submissions to the Committee should be available for public inspection and discussion. 
The Minister mis-states the purpose of the legislation. The Trade Practices Act was never designed or intended 'to give effect to the broad economic philosophy and objectives of the Government'- or of any other Government. Competition is the main objective of the Act. The Act is designed to strengthen the competitiveness of private enterprise for the benefit of the public as ultimate consumers. The Minister gives no reason for singling out price discrimination and mergers as 2 particular areas for the attention of the Committee. 
The Minister indulges in the inane rhetoric of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  or at least of his speech writers, about business regulations not being an end in itself. Of course it is not. It never has been. The Trade Practices Act makes that clear and anyone vaguely familiar with the workings of the Trade Practices Commission ought to know that it is not the way the Commission views its task either. The Minister talks of restrictions on business activity. Restrictions on business activity that should concern the community are those imposed by monopoly business organisations or corporations acting unfairly in the market place. The scheme of the trade practices legislation is to impose restrictions only on such unfair activities and to create a freer and fairer market place for business activity -for the ultimate benefit of consumers. 
-The statement made in the House last week by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  is yet another stage in the short history of our motor car industry. Who could have envisaged when Prime Minister Chifley launched the Australian car industry after World War II that in almost 30 years since that date one industry could be the subject of such continuous scrutiny and report? The latest statement is basically the previous Labor Government's car plan. So the whole exercise undertaken by both governments has concluded with a marked degree of bi-partisanship. 
Whilst we in the Opposition are not opposed to the basis of the report, nonetheless we are using the opportunity provided by this debate to place on record our views on' specific matters contained therein. The most important feature of the plan is the fixing of local content at 85 per cent. This figure understandably is not one that has universal support. However, it does maintain a viable auto manufacturing industry in Australia. The 85 per cent plan is another industry umbrella and who can fit under that umbrella for the next 8 years, as is the duration of the present plan, remains to be seen. The decision of the 2 governments is the result of an exhaustive Labor inquiry into the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the auto industry of 1974 in which the IAC stated: 
The considerable number of amendments to the plans since 196S and the inevitable exercise of discretion by the administering authority have contributed to a degree of uncertainty which has inhibited business planning. 
Accordingly, the Commission recommends that the local content plans be discontinued. 
Later on in that same report the IAC, in giving interpretation to the abolition of local content plans, said: 
The Commission's recommendations are expected to have a number of effects on employment in the industry. Over the next decade, during which the adjustments would take place, total employment is expected to fall by about 2000 persons. The phasing out of the uneconomic sections of the industry would, over the next decade, result in the elimination of about IS 000 jobs. However, the natural growth in those sectors of the industry which are expected to remain, will, over the same period, result in the creation of about 13 000 new jobs. These employment effects should be seen in the context of the high labour turnover rate in the industry. The total number of people whose employment would be affected over the next decade is less than the total number of people normally leaving the industry in one year. 
Those 2 quotes provoked one of the most extensive inquiries ever undertaken of the car industry. All sections of the industry- the manufacturers, the component manufacturers, and the trade unions- appreciated greatly the manner in which the previous Labor Administration opened its doors for a complete and open dialogue on the future of the industry. The concept of the future of the industry as seen by the IAC was rejected. The 15 000 people it estimated to be shifted out of the industry under its plans was seen by the industry as a gross under-estimation. The 13 000 new jobs to be found in the remaining industries under the plans was seen as a calculated guess. In fact I believe the 1974 IAC report, if adopted, may well have in a very short period of time seen the end of an auto manufacturing industry in Australia altogether. The statement by the Minister, of course, will leave many questions up in the air. How many 4-cylinder engine manufacturers shall there be after the Government concludes its negotiations? 
How will the anticipated 5 auto manufacturers now fit into a market of half a million units? To what extent will the component industry have to be restructured, as a result of the application of the 15 per cent by-law? Will the abolition of the complementation provisions discourage rather than encourage economy of scale production in our country? These questions are not answered in the Minister's statement. It would seem that when one talks of the 5 manufacturers and the workforce to be employed in the forseeable future there will be only a slight alteration in the total workforce connected with the industry. It may require, as I have indicated, only slight restructuring in the component industry, and I want to elaborate on that question a little later on. 
On the issue of complementation, basically complementation gives Australian content credits for exports of approved automotive products. This was seen as one of the most important elements in Labor's policies. It encourages manufacturers especially in the component area to specialise and to reap the economies of long production runs. It allowed vehicle manufacturers to source abroad but only if they were prepared to use Australia as an export base. Thus, it would seem, Nissan envisaged exporting some of its Adelaide engines in return for its imported body panels. 
This was the only way to maintain employment and design facilities in Australia; to get volume into the industry especially in the component sector, to let the Australian motor vehicle industry follow the technological trend to international models currently emerging in Europe, North America, Japan and the Asian countries; and to give consumers the choice they deserve. It would be wrong if these plans were designed merely to serve Australia. We could become the centre for design and sophisticated product manufacture. The end of complementation may well be the end of export markets. 
On the question of the non-reversion rule, economically of course this rule never made sense. However, to abolish suddenly a rule that has persisted for a decade imposes undue strain on the parts industry. In particular to abolish it now before the new manufacturers begin to source locally is bad planning. The parts industry needs to restructure but it should have been gradually encouraged to restructure by specialising in line with an economically attractive complementation program. It would be hoped that by government intervention, when we now have the opportunity, after seeing all the past mistakes, the Government would announce in the not too distant future that only one plant will produce 4-cylinder engines. We must do what we can to attract the greatest technological investment available to us. Such a plant, I believe, will do just that. In saying this I draw attention to the statement made on paragraph 5 of the Minister's statement where he says: "The local industry's ability to contain cost increases should also, in time, enhance the prospects for significant exports of automotive products. The industry would then be in a better position to participate in current developments towards production of so-called "world" or "regional" cars.' 
It is not difficult to envisage the complete world auto industry developing along these lines, and the development of a 4-cylinder engine is our chance to participate in the predicted world model. Whilst the car plans have eased many minds, there will have to be continuous monitoring of their future development. The monitoring of the effect of those new car plans should have running parallel with it an up-to-date adjustment assistance scheme. If the people in industries or the industries themselves are to be directly affected by government programs the Government must take responsibility for both. Whilst adjustment schemes are relatively new in Australia, their costs can be minimised if a well planned strategy of tariff and industrial reform is employed. Many parts of the world- Sweden, 
Canada, United Kingdom, United States of America- have adjustment schemes, some directly related to the auto industries. In Canada individuals displaced from employment under the automotive adjustment program can receive benefits of up to 75 per cent of weekly pay for a period of up to 18 months. Firms are also eligible for receipt of benefits. 
The manpower adjustment program aims to bring management and labour together for early consultations to solve employment problems, including those caused by restructuring, and to co-ordinate private and public adjustment measures to ensure the full range of government manpower programs is made available to complement private measures. Government manpower programs and services include counselling, training, placement and mobility assistance m the form of travelling, living and installation allowances, including $1,000 towards a house in the new location. We must recognise in Australia that when we talk about re-location of resources we are talking about placing an extra burden on an individual or a family to seek different employment in another region. Those people ought to be recognised and catered for. There are other matters that ought to be taken into account when considering the labour intensive industries like the auto industry in Australia.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave at this stage to have incorporated in  Hansard  the population projections of the Borrie Committee report. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the most significant piece of legislation that has been introduced into this House in this Parliament. Although this Parliament has been sitting for 7 weeks no substantive legislation has been introduced and no attempt has been made to attack the problems existing in the community. It has now been considered by the Opposition to be its responsibility to bring forward what it considers to be a major reform. The Opposition is doing so for the third time in 3 years. This legislation was introduced twice during the period of the Whitlam Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. We again bring it forward in 1976. Unfortunately the attitude of the Government, as it is today, and the Opposition, as it was between 1972 and 1975, to the legislation has been completely negative. Every member of the Liberal Party of Australia and every member of the National Country Party of Australia in the House of Representatives voted against this legislation previously. Every member of the Liberal Party and every member of the Country Party in the Senate also voted against this legislation previously and subsequently defeated it. So the quite unsatisfactory electoral laws that we found when we took office in December 1972 remain with us today. 
This Bill attempts in some major ways to reform the electoral laws as they pertain to electioneering in Australia. It would be one thing if, in presenting their views in opposition to this Bill, the Liberal and Country Parties would put forward some ideas that perhaps could be looked at about the ways in which these laws ought to be altered for the benefit of all future Australians and particularly the institution of Parliament. But unfortunately, as I have said, their attitude has been completely negative. They have no ideas about the ways in which these matters ought to be reformed. Because they have an enormous advantage in the collection of political donations they believe that the present system should not be interfered with. However in recent times we have seen all sorts of allegations being made about the ways in which individuals and political parties go about collecting funds. I make this point in all seriousness to all members of both Houses: We are now discussing this Bill and the reform of the electoral laws on the basis of the institution of Parliament and what it means to Australia, the role that is played by the political parties and to what extent we want this institution and those people who serve in it respected by the people of Australia. Whilst we continue with the laws as they exist at the moment there is going to be grave suspicion about the role that we play and the avenues that we might follow in reaching the parliaments of this country. This matter ought to be looked at very seriously because there is, as I have said, this very deep suspicion. 
I do not want to heark back to past electoral campaigns, but we have seen an enormous escalation in the cost of conducting electoral campaigns in Australia. The cost has escalated to such an extent that it is now becoming almost impossible for the smaller political parties to compete with the 2 major political forces in this country. Perhaps that is something else that will have to be looked at. I will not restrict my remarks merely to the amendments that we are putting forward today because the dialogue and the debate on electoral laws is going on all round the world and this Parliament ought to be aware of the views that are being put forward in all the other parliaments- in the Congress of the United States of America, in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom and in the parliaments of Sweden, Finland and Norway. All these things are relevant to the laws that perhaps ought to exist in Australia. 
In specific terms this Bill relates in the main to the limitation of electoral expenditure and to the public disclosure of the sources of funds made available to political parties and candidates. Included in the Bill are provisions which require the appointment of party agents by political parties and the registration thereof by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. The Bill requires the maintenance of a register of party agents by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. It requires lists of all party agents and official agents to be kept at electoral offices in each State and Territory. 
The Bill requires the filing of returns relating to electoral expenditure by registered party agents and official agents with the Chief Australian Electoral Officer within 12 weeks after an election. It requires returns to be made open for public inspection. The Bill requires the certification of returns by a registered company auditor. It enables the reimbursement of auditors' fees up to a limit of $200. It prohibits electoral expenditure by any person except a registered party agent or official agent without the prior written authority of the respective agent. It prohibits the making of gifts, including donations, to a party or candidate except with the written authority of the registered party agent or official agent of the candidate. It requires the disclosure of the particulars of all gifts, including all donations, made to political parties or candidates through or with the authority of the party agent or official agent. 
The Bill limits the campaign expenditure of a political party, including electoral expenditure by a party's candidates, in accordance with a specified formula. Under the formula the limit of the expenditure by a political party on a House of Representatives election held separately from a Senate election would be based on the amount of 7.5c for every person enrolled for the division or divisions contested- that is to say, approximately $600,000 would be available to a party today contesting all 127 electorates. In the case of a Senate election that is held alone the permissible expenditure of a political party would be substantially less. It would be based on the amount of 1.5 cents for every person enrolled for the State or States contested by that partythat is to say, an amount of about $125,000 on present enrolments for a party contesting the Senate election in all States. The limits of expenditure presently imposed on candidates also are being varied. For the election of a senator the proposed limit is an amount of 0.2c for every elector enrolled for the State concerned or $3,000, whichever is the greater. For the election of a member of the House of Representatives the proposed limit is an amount equal to 5c for every elector enrolled for the division contested- that is to say, $3,250 in respect of a division comprising 65 000 electors, or $2,500 in respect of a division comprising 50 000 electors. They are usually Country Party electorates. Having regard to the importance of enforing the observance of the proposed new expenditure provisions the Bill prescribes penalties of up to $10,000 in certain cases and up to $20,000 in other cases. 
The matter of the way in which the political parties conduct their affairs is, as I have said, being scrutinised by parliaments all round the world. Many new formulas are coming forward as to the ways in which the public purse may be made available to political parties. I introduce this matter into this debate because it may just provoke some new thoughts from the Government benches about the ways in which these laws ought to be amended. As I have said, I do not want to dwell in the past. We have to look forward to the ways in which the parliaments of the future present themselves and the way in which to remove suspicions from the Parliament and from those people who serve in it. In Canada, for instance, the House Leader of the minority Liberal Government in 1 974 said that the legislation introduced in Canada gave Canada 'one of the most democratic and open electoral systems in the world'. If no one among the ranks of the 3 opposition parties- Progressive Conservatives, the New Democrats and the Social Credit Party- disputed his claim it was perhaps because members of all the parties in the House of Commons in Canada finally had a finger in the outcome. 
The legislation was introduced in June 1973. It soon found its way to the Commons Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections. Ideas for electoral reform had been under fairly regular study in Canada for nearly a decade, first by a royal commission and then by 3 parliamentary committees. There also had been an examination of the issues by academics and other interests, but the working politicians representing the four main Canadian political parties still found plenty of issues to settle in their committee deliberations. The Committee met on more than 50 occasions and considered nearly 150 amendments to the original Bill. Altogether more than 50 changes were incorporated. Letting democracy being the determining factor on every issue the Government made no attempt to revise changes to its original legislation made by the Committee on a majority vote. When the Bill finally came back to the Commons in January 1974 for approval, the  Chairman  indicated that the Government was content to accept the results of the Committee's critical analysis. The chief spokesman for the official Opposition- the Progressive Conservatives- was  Mr Terry  O'Connor, the member for the Ontario riding of Halton. He pointed out one important change that the committee had made in the legislation. That was the provision that the disclosure of names and amounts of all donors to political parties and candidates must include governments. Governments through their publications, their facilities such as aircraft, automobiles, advertising and public service personnel could give useful help to election candidates.  Mr O'Connor  said: 
As we are all aware, the use, usually surreptitiously and indirectly, by the Party in power of such readily available weaponry can provide a significant and unfair advantage during an election campaign. 
In summing up his party's position,  Mr O'Connor  saw the legislation as a chance to improve the public image of the politician and the political parties in Canada. The Bill takes large strides towards alleviating the long and deeply held public suspicion- in some cases in actuality- that politicians are crooked, that the system operates on the basis of patronage, of favours, of jobs and other amenities offered and granted in return for candidate and party funding. 
The Bill would open up books and records of parties and individuals through tough auditing requirements and the requirement that sources of donations over $100 be disclosed. It will allow every Canadian the opportunity to look over the shoulders of the back-room boys as they go about their often misunderstood task of raising money necessary to convey the message of a party and its candidates. Long held suspicions will then either be confirmed or put to rest. He  also noted that the legislation takes steps to reduce the escalating cost of elections by limiting the amounts that candidates and parties may spend on a campaign. A candidate is limited to $1 for each of the first 15 000 eligible voters in his electorate, 50c for each of the next 10 000 voters and 25c for each voter over 25 000. The spending by political parties is limited to 30c for each eligible voter in the country. Penalties for over-spending go as high as $25,000. The legislation also makes it a criminal offence to contribute to a party or a candidate except directly and requires that all campaign contributions exceeding $100 must be disclosed whether from the individuals, corporations, unions, other organisations, associations or governments. The  Chairman  of the Progressive Conservatives,  Mr O'Connor,  said: 
Above all, these limitations will reduce the discriminatory effect of wealth on the system. The wealthy man or woman will not be permitted to spend his or her way into office, nor will he or she enjoy the substantial advantage that money formerly held over the less well-to-do candidate. 
He noted that this end is further advanced by partial reimbursement to parties and candidates from the public treasury of the cost of the campaign. This applies to successful candidates and those receiving 20 per cent of the votes cast. 
On the question of the allocation of public funds to political parties, I refer to the position in Sweden, the home of the people who have studied this question more closely than anybody else. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the memo of the Swedish committee on the funding of political parties. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Did he advise the New South Wales Government to call the election in New South Wales prior to the bringing down of the 1976 horror Budget? If not, why not? 
-The Opposition will not take its opposition to these amendments to the point of voting against them or of causing a division in the House. However, we are taking the opportunity, as people both inside and outside the House will observe, to stress the importance which we place on this legislation and the way in which we intend to monitor any attempt by this Government to water down what we regard as one of the most important pieces of legislation introduced by the Australian Labor Party Government during its term of office from 1972 to 1975. The present Government's eagerness to amend the Trade Practices Act is in marked contrast to the reluctance of Liberal-Country Party governments in previous years to legislate at all in this vital area. Australians had to wait until the election of a 
Labor government before effective trade practices legislation was passed. The passage of Labor's BUI in 1973 brought Australia into line with other Western democracies. Every other major industrial nation had stringent laws against unfair trade practices and monopolisation. Most countries had laws to protect consumers. Australia had neither. Successive Liberal governments refused to control restrictive practices or to protect consumers from unfair commercial dealings. It was left to a Labor government to take action. 
Whilst making this point about the protection offered to consumers, I must say that I was highly amused by a Liberal Party advertisement last evening. I saw the Premier of New South Wales telling the people of New South Wales that they ought to vote for his Government because of the way in which it protects the consumers in New South Wales. He stipulated some of the ways in which his Government was moving. It seemed to be a re-reading of the history book of South Australia about 10 years ago. The Dunstan Labor Government, as would be expected of a Labor government, moved in this area of reform a long time ago. Obviously the people of New South Wales would be far better served by a reform government with Neville Wran as Premier than they would be by the people who have been in charge of New South Wales for 10 years and who have done so little. 
We took action in fulfilment of undertakings at 2 successive Federal elections. The Trade Practices Bill brought down in 1973 was one of the great legislative reforms passed through this Parliament. It is a monument to a former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy.  For all its importance, it had no easy passage in this Parliament. The first Bill was frustrated by the double dissolution forced by the Opposition in 1 974; the second Bill was passed with amendments later that year. The Liberal Party has never shown the slightest enthusiasm for trade practices legislation or any concern for the problems and abuses which make such legislation necessary.  Sir Garfield  Barwick's original attempt to legislate on these matters was effectively frustrated by previous Liberal governments at the behest of commercial and business interests. The Restrictive Trade Practices Act, which the Liberals eventually passed, was largely ineffectual. It allowed abuses and malpractices to flourish until a Labor government took action against them. 
Restrictive practices have long been rife in Australia. Most of them are undesirable. They cause prices to be maintained at artificially high levels. They enable particular enterprises or groups of enterprises to attain positions of economic dominance which are then susceptible to abuse. They interfere with the interplay of competitive forces which are the foundation of any market economy. They allow discriminatory action against small businesses, exploitation of consumers, and feather-bedding of industries. All these evils were outlawed or effectively curtailed by our legislation. Let no one imagine that the Opposition supported our proposals. True, it lacked the courage to vote against them in the Parliament but it showed no enthusiasm for the principles of our Bill. When the Bill was before the Parliament, the Opposition moved an amendment to delete the whole of Part V, relating to consumer protection. It argued that consumer protection was a State matter. It was the old Liberal dodge for avoiding responsibility, the old Liberal pretext for doing nothing. Of course, there are areas where State government authorities and protection bureaus can operate quickly and effectively. But the bulk of the products and services bought by Australian consumers are marketed nation-wide. Clearly they should be covered by national legislation. Can anyone be confident that this vital part of our legislation will be safe under the Fraser Government? 
The Australian people must be wary of any attempt to water down the Trade Practices Act. There have been clear signs that this is the Government's intention. The Liberals said nothing about their intentions during the election campaign. The Fraser Government has never been frank or open in its promises- either those it makes or those it breaks. In the GovernorGeneral's Speech on 17 February we had for the first time a promise that the Trade Practices Act would be reviewed. We were not told the purpose of this review. We were not told who would carry it out. We were not told how long it would take. The obvious conclusion to be drawn is that the present Act will be weakened. The Bill now before the house is of minor importance in itself, but may well be a forerunner of further attacks on the substance and functions of the Act. Now the last cause for community foreboding is the decision to place the administration of the Act within the responsibility of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  The Minister has already shown himself to be an uncritical admirer of the business community. He has gone on record with the statement that consumer protection should not be allowed to 'interfere' with the free exercise of commercial freedom- a statement with sinister implications for the future of trade practices legislation. There has been a whole series of hostile statements and intimidatory references to the Trade Practices Commission by Liberal Ministers. They establish a clear pattern of hostility, indeed bitterness, towards the Act. 
On 15 February, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  accused the Commission of harassing business and causing unemployment. The Melbourne  Age  reported on 27 March: 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Howard,  gave notice yesterday that the interests of consumers were being significantly downgraded on a Federal level. 

 Mr Howard, speaking at an Australian Marketing Institute lunch, indicated strongly that business interests would be held foremost when the Government's review of the Trade Practices Act was launched next week. 
Details of the review would be announced in Parliament next week, he told the audience. 
But after lunch, he told the Press: 'Don't hold me to that'. 
During and after the lunch he also said: 
There were no plans yet to put the national companies Act legislation before Parliament: 
There were no plans yet to reconstitute the Senate Committee inquiring into legislation for a corporations and exchange commission: 
He had noted, but not made any decision on, the call from Victoria's Attorney-General,  Mr Wilcox,  for the Federal Government to join the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. 
It is hardly an impressive record of ministerial activity and resolution. The Government is restricting the Commission's activities as part of its futile and misguided economy measures. A report in the Brisbane  Sunday Mail  on 2 1 March stated: 
The number of prosecutions under trade practices legislation is expected to fall dramatically following Government decisions to reduce spending. 
The Trade Practices Commission will have to curb its activities. Some TPC inquiries have been delayed or postponed in an effort to meet the Government's stringent demands that only essential spending proceed. 
Officers of the Commission expect their work load to drop markedly in the next few months as planned investigations are wound down. 
An Assistant Commissioner,  Mr J.  V. McKeown has made it clear that the cuts will not stop legal action already under way. 
The cuts came just at the time when the Commission was starting to escalate its investigations into fundamental business practices which it considers could restrict trade and competition or could mislead and deceive consumers. Because officers of the Commission have been severely restricted in their right to travel interstate they can no longer follow up investigations in person. 
Instead, State officers have to take over where the Federal office finds that more detailed inquiry is needed in the State in which a company may be operating. 
One of the functions of the present Act is to delete all references to the 'Attorney-General' and replace them with the words 'the Minister'. In other words, the administration of this Act will no longer be clothed with the power and authority of the first law officer of Australia but will be handed over to an inexperienced Minister whose very portfolio is a contradiction in terms. It should be obvious to every honourable member that the interests of the business community and the interests of consumers are fundamentally opposed- at least insofar as consumer protection matters are concerned. All these matters will now come under a highly contentious and heavily politicised portfolio of questionable value. To hand over the trade practices legislation to this Minister and to this Department is to compromise its strength and effectiveness. 
The Trade Practices Act was a landmark in our legislative history. It must not be weakened or destroyed by a Government sympathetic to what a former British Prime Minister, Edward Heath, has called 'the unacceptable face of capitalism'. This Government has already shown its readiness to side with the wealthier and more powerful sections of the community against the weak, the disadvantaged and the needy. It has already shown its willingness to break promises and deceive the people whenever it suits the Prime Minister. The Trade Practices Act must not fall victim to this process of deception and distorted priorities. In the fight against inflation the co-operation of all sections of the community is essential. Co-operation is crucial to the process of economic recovery. Any legislation, any amendments to the Trade Practices Act which unduly favour the business community and discriminate against consumers or small businesses, will create new divisions in society, damage consumer confidence and make economic recovery more difficult. The Australian people must ensure that the Trade Practices Act remains a true guardian of the interests of consumers and of genuine and healthy competition in the business community. 
It was very interesting to hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  try to hide all of his own sins by attacking the Leader of the Aus.tralian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam).  We have heard from him an explanation in this House of all the accusations that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has made about some of the goings on in Wollongong many years ago when the communist-led Waterside Workers Federation was given a very large trophy by the honourable member for Mackellar. We have never really understood the connection between the honourable member and the WWF. But, be that as it may, I would like to discuss the subject of the New South Wales election. I am quite happy to do so. I would be quite happy to talk with the Whip of my Party about arranging a pair for the honourable member for Mackellar if he would promise to spend the rest of the week door knocking in marginal electorates for  Sir Eric  Willis and explaining to the people of New South Wales, especially the wage and salary earners, what is the policy of the Government today on wage indexation. 
It is interesting to note that a number of demonstrations and protests are to take place this week and next week against the actions of the Government. 
We have to try to sort out where this Government stands and to what extent the  Sir Eric  Willis Government, which is so closely tied with the new Fraser Administration, can be trusted. Before the elections on 13 December the present Australian Government, supported by the New South Wales Government, said: 'We support full indexation'. Not long after the elections and at the first test of the policy the Government of the day said: 'No, we only support the granting of 50 per cent of the consumer price index increase'. That was the Fraser Government's second policy which the people of New South Wales had to stomach and which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission rejected. A third policy was then adopted on indexation by the Government, again with great effect upon the people of New South Wales. It said: 'Let us take the taxation basis out of the CPI figures so that we can get a much smaller figure than the real increase in the cost of living'. 
A fourth policy has now been adopted by this Government. Between 13 December and today four policies have been adopted by it on wage indexation. We now have as its policy the relaxation of the guidelines surrounding indexation but the granting of a flat rate increase above the minimum wage. How can anybody in New South Wales trust the present Australian Government or the combination of the present Australian Government and the New South Wales Government? 
Let us look at a couple of other issues. Today people from all over Australia visited Canberra to protest about the very immoral action taken by this Government in relation to the breaking of the contracts that had been made by the former Labor Administration with thousands of Australians in relation to payments to them under the National Employment and Training scheme. All of those people were promised by the Labor Government that they would be retrained at a certain rate of pay. It was not a handout. It was not a dole payment. It was one of the first attempts to implement some sophisticated manner of retraining people in Australia. Who broke those contracts? Four months after honourable members opposite were elected to office we have a protest in Canberra about the immoral action that they have taken in relation to the NEAT scheme. 
Who will be coming to Canberra on Thursday and why? Thousands of people from all over Australia- teachers, parents and children alikewill be coming because they know what the Government is going to do to the Schools Commission in this year's horror Budget. What effect will it have on the people of New South Wales, which is the largest and most populous State, when the Government tells them that it is going to cut the powers and the financial flexibility of the Australian Schools Commission and will take away from the Schools Commission all of the great advantages which were provided under the Labor Administration to the people and to the children? That was the first real opportunity that was provided to the children who live in working class areas. The protesters will be here on Thursday, which is again 4 months after the Fraser Government was elected to office. 
Who will be coming to Canberra next Tuesday in protest against the acts of the Government? The pensioners will be here. Honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Mackellar, who stands up in this chamber and makes grandiose claims about how he defends the pensioners, should go outside of this chamber and tell them about how he and his colleagues voted to take away their funeral benefits 3 days after they voted to give the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  $5,000 a year under the superphosphate bounty. I challenge honourable members opposite to go outside next Tuesday and tell - 
I challenge honourable members opposite to go outside next week and talk to the pensioners- the people whom they have pretended to defend over the years- about their actions. There are to be no fewer than 4 protests in a week four months after the election and honourable members opposite ask the working people- the wage and salary earners- of New South Wales to trust the combination of the New South Wales and federal governments. They would have to be looney to trust such a combination, with 4 policies on wage indexation. Nothing could be more important to the wage and salary earner of New South Wales than his purchasing power. Honourable members opposite have shown their complete discrimination against such people by breaking every promise on indexation that they have given since 13 December. 
If the honourable member for Mackellar wants to go door knocking in the marginal electorates of New South Wales he should ask the Whip for a pair. I am sure that a pair can be arranged. I will give the honourable member the names of the electorates to visit. I challenge him to go into them and defend the actions of his Government and the Government of New South Wales on the rotten stand that they have taken against the decent people of this country-the pensioners, the people involved in education and the people whose contracts the Australian Government broke in relation to the NEAT scheme. I challenge him to talk also about other things, including overseas aid. Let us look at the other programs in relation to which the Aus.tralian Government has broken promises. 
-I thank the House. 
-Having listened to the contribution by the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  if it is true that he is not campaign director for the Liberal Party's candidate in Ashfield then the candidate is showing a fair bit of judgment. When this proposal to establish a standing expenditure committee was raised in our party room we had to discuss whether we would support or oppose it. We first had to look at the way in which this proposal was brought before the Parliament. We cannot consider it as a Government measure. It is a measure which has been put forward by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We have to look upon it as something he would want to achieve in this Parliament by using those who sit behind him. We have seen in the last couple of weeks the absolute farce whereby he conned you all into taking out of the Social Services Act the funeral benefit for pensioners and putting it back in 2 weeks later. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has just started his speech. I will judge his remarks as he goes along. It is a far ranging debate. 
-I do not intend to refer to anything that does not have the effect of using up or taking away the use of money by the Government. The $1.7m which the Government thought was so terribly important was not considered by any committee. In taking the decision to take away from thousands of pensioners in Australia the funeral benefit of $40 a person no consideration was given to referring this to an expenditure committee. It has been decided to put this provision back into the legislation. This Government capitulated not because of the provisions in paragraph 1(c) of the motion which relates to costs and benefits but because the New South Wales election is on next Saturday and because a couple of the Prime Minister's cronies from Tasmania who were crying on his sleeve apparently capitulated completely and said: 'All right, we will put our hands up now '. 
It was not a beating for the Labor Party. It was an enormous success for the Labor Party because we told you people in the House of Representatives what was going to happen in respect of the funeral benefit for pensioners. We told you what would happen in the Senate. We told you what you would do in the House of Representatives. We were perfectly correct. The fact that the funeral benefit for pensioners has been restored to the legislation did not come about because of the proposal to set up this expenditure committee. It came about through the advocacy of the Australian Labor Party and those members serving in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. 
This measure is being put forward by the Prime Minister and there are those of us in Australia who happen to want to analyse all the moves made by him. He came before a committee on which I served- the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I am not sure whether it was before or after he stabbed the present  Speaker  in the back or whether he was just one of the backbenchers or the Leader of the Opposition. Nevertheless he came before that committee and gave evidence on the setting up of parliamentary committees and the way we should view the establishment of legislative committees and expenditure committees. He said that these things ought to be part of a comprehensive report to be brought back to the Parliament by that Joint Committee. At the initiative of the Government when we assembled here in February after the recess following the election on 13 December the Joint Committee was re-established. We were asked to bring in a final report on 26 May. Why could not this debate wait until 26 May? None of us seems to be able to delve into the Prime Minister's thinking on the motion to set up an expenditure committee. Does he want the parliamentary imprimatur on all the cuts that are going to take place in government expenditure, because one can relate that directly to his philosophy? There are 2 points to be considered. They are: Give everything back to the States that we possibly can so that we have no responsibility here, and let us get that terrible terror- the deficit- down. The honourable member for Evans raised the matter of education. Let us have a look at it. 
Perhaps there is a role for this committee in the field of education, but what I am saying is that we are opposed to the setting up of this Expenditure Committee because we have an expert committee already set up to look into parliamentary committees. No case has been presented from the other side as to why we should have rushed into setting up this expenditure committee or why we should rush into setting up legislative or tariff committees. Perhaps we can present arguments about them and about what we should have in this Parliament so that backbenchers, particularly those on the other side of the House, can get an introduction into the powers of the Parliament and clear up the vague views that some members have about what goes through the Parliament 
Let me look at the field of education in relation to cost benefits. What would happen for instance if an expenditure committee set up under this Government against the advice of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System- because it says that overseas experience in Canada and in the House of Commons shows that expenditure committees are laughed at- was faced with a government decision to slash the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in schools? On my estimation in the first 6 months of this year this expenditure will be slashed by $45,000 by this Government. What would be the position if the expenditure committee said that the cost benefit of that cut was negative? Do not tell me this Government is going to say: 'We take the Committee's advice. We will restore the $45,000 that was in the original appropriation'. Let me look at some of the other areas of expenditure. 
-I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  do not need an explanation but for the honourable member for Hume it seems to take a long time for these things to sink in. He should have a look at paragraph I (c) of the motion which reads: 
examine the relationship between the costs and benefits of implementing government programs, 
The honourable member for Evans suggested that perhaps local government questions should be considered. Our excellent candidate for Ashfield, the mayor who has been re-elected on a number of occasions, was perhaps using Australian Government money incorrectly. We will see on Saturday whether he has been using it incorrectly. I want to direct my remarks to the field of education, the money that is being spent there, how we would analyse the cost benefit of that sort of expenditure and whether in fact the influence of an expenditure committee would override the philosophy of a government, because these are the sorts of thing that we have to look at. Let us have a look for instance at the preschool teacher education allowances. On my estimation, if I were to say that those allowances are going to be slashed between 1 January this year and 30 June this year by up to $363,000, 1 would not be far out. I might be inclined to vote with the Government on this motion to set up the Committee if one honourable member opposite could tell me, convince me or persuade me in any way at all that such a committee could convince the Government to reallocate the $363,000 to this very needy area. 
Let me deal with some of the other estimates that I have made. In relation to Commonwealth post-graduate awards, tuition fees, facilities and stipends, if I were to say that my estimate is that the appropriation in 1975-76 is going to be slashed by $473,000, could honourable members opposite tell me again that the Committee is going to walk into the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and say: 'We have had a look at the cost and benefit of this money and we think you ought to put back that $473,000. Do not listen to what the Bank of New South Wales, ICI or BHP is telling you. We are telling you that it is money well invested?' Government members know that that is a joke, because the philosophy of this Government will override any committee. It will not be a question of the Committee telling the Government. The Committee will be there just as a lap-dog. Why could not the proposal have been debated after 26 May, when the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System brought down its report? 
Let us consider some of the other areas which I estimate will be slashed before the end of this financial year. If I were to say that the child migrant education program is going to be slashed by $983,000 before the end of the financial year, I do not think that anyone opposite would be able to prove me wrong. In their own estimates, Government members have come up with the same figure. Is the expenditure review committee going to tell the Prime Minister or the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that that amount should be put back into the education appropriation? Is it going to have sufficient courage to go outside on the steps of Parliament House and tell people such as those who are assembled there today that the Expenditure Committee is going to have that amount put back into the education appropriation? Of course it is not. 
What members on the Government side have to learn to do- sooner or later some of them will, as 6 senators did the day before yesterday- is to try to analyse what this Prime Minister has got them doing. Every time Government members put up their hands to support him they are not quite sure what it is all about, but they come in here boasting about what they are going to do. In the debate relating to pensions- perhaps that matter should have gone to an expenditure review committee- someone said: 'I am voting to take away the funeral benefit only because the Prime Minister has said that it is part of one big package whereby the pensioners are going to be better off'. The Government took away the funeral benefit and tried to tell members on this side of the chamber, who have observed conservative governments since 1900, that it had in mind something whereby the pensioners would be better off. What absolute rubbish! The pension never rose above 19 per cent of average weekly earnings between 1949 and 1972. There was no expenditure committee to look at that. When Labor came into power in 1972 the pension went to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Now, zombo it is on the way back again, under the Liberals. 
I have made some other estimates on education expenditure. If anybody could tell me that the expenditure review committee would have influence in that area I might be prepared to support the motion. But let us consider some of the questions. In relation to administration, the Government has said that perhaps people are being paid too much overtime. There is a question of the work having to be carried out. I think the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  would understand that. Look at the facilities, the property and maintenance and the other things that have been provided over the years through the Schools Commission. If I tell honourable members opposite that something like $1,500,000 has been slashed from the original appropriation for 1975-76, they will not be surprised because, having done their homework - 
It is a cost-benefit analysis. Thank you for your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let me continue with some of the things about which honourable members opposite are trying to convince - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Could I continue by saying that if I were to tell honourable members opposite - 
To conclude, I have confined my remarks to what is considered in subparagraph (c) to be the cost-benefit analysis by which the Government wants its programs examined. If I said that in relation to Northern Territory educational services $1.4m had been slashed from the total of $2.1m in the first 6 months of 1976, would an expenditure committee have enough influence to stand over the Government and say: 'You cannot do this to the Northern Territory because what you are doing is breaking down the whole area of responsibility of the Schools Commission'? The Opposition believes that there may be reasons to support the motion, but it would want better arguments than those which have been presented by the Government to date. This is one of those smelly arguments that the Prime Minister comes up with, and Government members will learn their lesson because quite a number of them will be here only until the next election. If they just sit here passively they will have achieved nothing. I ask them to remember what Nehru said: 'If I live and die and leave the same world as I was born into, I have achieved nothing '. 
-The Bill now before the House represents one of the most significant measures that this Government will ever enact. It enacts into law the recommendations contained in 2 reports of the Tariff Boardone dating back to May 1972; 26 reports by the Industries Assistance Commission; 6 reports by the Temporary Assistance Authority; and 2 reports by the textile industry. It covers almost every industry in Australia- an incredible range of commodities, ranging from sausage casing of plastic, to colour television sets; from steel to motor vehicles and earthmoving equipment; and the whole range of textiles and machinery. Under it preference is accorded to various countries. It is, in fact, legislation which affects every Australian industry, every Australian worker and the whole of the Australian economy. 
It has been the constant theme of Government supporters that the Whitlam Government, by its tariff policies, brought Australian industry to its knees. Yet the first 28 schedules in this Bill were put into effect by way of Customs proposals by the Whitlam Government. The next 4 schedules, part of which took effect from 29 November last, in the time of the caretaker Government, have been the subject of little claim by this Government. In fact, on 19 February the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  tried to brush aside all the changes in the last 4 schedules by saying that they were nothing new. This Parliament has never heard what is involved. He could not even admit that the thirtysecond schedule was the imposition of world quotas in response to the embargo threat of the Philippines. It was open to this Government to follow the precedent set when the Scullin Government went out of office. The duty collections could have been validated by the Tariff Validation Act Bill. They could have been validated to a particular date and after that date this Government could have introduced its own amendments to the tariff or let the tariff revert to its original state. It has chosen not to do that. It has chosen to adopt the tariff policies of the Whitlam Government. It enacts into law all those changes which Government supporters have so vigorously attacked in the past. 
It is open to members opposite to vote against the Bill and to leave the Minister with the unenviable task of putting forward a Bill which we will support and his own Party will oppose. Of course they are unlikely to do so. They will vote for the Bui. They are faced at last with the realities of Government. They will say that these amendments merely put into operation the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and the other bodies, and to some extent they are right, but all these amendments were made by the Whitlam Government after the reports had been tabled in this House, after the community could discuss them and after a deliberate political decision by Labor to pursue a particular course. If the Hayden Budget were as terrible as members opposite would have us believe and if indirect charges were wrongly raised, why are the 26th and 27th schedules of the BUI presented for enactment? 
Let us hear from members opposite. Either they agree with this legislation or they do not. If they do, they take the responsibility for enacting these changes into law. They take the responsibility for the state of all the industries which are affected by this Bill. They agree with the tariff policies in the Budget proposals of the Whitlam Government. If they do not vote for the BUI let us hear from them what amendments they will make. Let us hear their proposals for all these industries. If this Bill is passed let us never hear again criticism of the tariff policies of the Whitlam Government. 
As I have said, this is a very significant Bill. It gives this House the opportunity to debate the whole issue of tariffs and their place in the economy. If there is a single point on tariff procedure or policy it is dealt with by this Bill in one of its 32 schedules. It is regrettable that tariff debates have been so few. We had a few questions when the Whitlam Government reduced tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. In his unfortunate tenure of the office of Minister for Customs and Excise the honourable member for Hotham, Don Chipp, made a few vague remarks about the by-law system. We have to go back to the closing days of the 1966 session to find the last tariff debate. The government of the day introduced a very significant report entitled  Industrial Chemicals and Synthetic Resins  and attempted to sneak into the law a new tax called the support duties. It was left to the honourable member for Lalor, Jim Cairns, and the honourable member for Wakefield, Bert Kelly to bring these matters up in debate. 
I have a few procedural matters to raise. The Whitlam Government inherited a system. It failed to change it and it must take some of the blame. I raise these matters so that the Minister may give the House an assurance that they are being corrected. There is the  Gazette  notice procedure on tariff change when the Parliament is not sitting. The legislation was introduced with the promise of use in emergency only. There is the use of the proposal system when substantive legislation could equally well be introduced. There are too many validation Bills- an excuse for lazy officials; a device which prevents this House from discharging its constitutional duty of initiating changes in the tariff. There is the neat non-statement of what has been done about the Trans-Australia Airways recommendation to abolish the developing country preference for work gloves. 
I now turn to tariff policies. It is as well to state where we stand on this issue. The policy of the Labor Party is clear; we stand for the optimum use of Australia's resources, not development for the sake of development but for the best use that can be made of our resources. We stand firmly on the belief that a decision on the tariff is a political decision. It is not for the Government to shelter behind the recommendations of an outside body such as the LAC. That body is charged with making an objective report and does so. It is unable to take the political decision on whether Australia should have a particular industry. The industry may be needed for defence purposes, it may form a necessary technological base, it may be needed because it is labour intensive or it may be an infant industry which should be fostered. 
In chapter 3 of its annual report the LAC puts forward the view that its recommendations are made for the good of the community at large. But like the question 'What is justice?', so the question 'What is for the good of the community?' depends on who answers it. It is for the Parliament- this House- to determine that. It is not for an outside, unelected body to take that fundamental step. It is for the LAC to tell us what the cost will be to have any particular industry and the necessary measures to achieve it. If the Parliament decides that we should have an industry we must pay the cost whatever it may be. That does not mean unabashed and complete protection. It means a weighing up of the advantages and the disadvantages of any particular course for the future of Australia. We must recognise our responsibilities as a trading nation. We must ensure that the consumer is not being exploited, that he has the advantages of the best that the world can provide. Nevertheless, we must preserve our employment. We must preserve our technological base. We must never again be the technological peasants we were in World War II. These are the reasons why Ben Chifley encouraged the motor industry to manufacture in Australia and, while we differ on matters of detail, I do not think anyone in this House is prepared to see that industry dismantledexcept perhaps one. 
I regret that this Government, the Whitlam Government, the Gorton Government and the Holt Government all failed to give more precise guidance to the IAC and to its predecessor, the Tariff Board. I regret that the IAC is apparently so uncoordinated that it cannot take an overview of employment in Australia. It is pointless for the Commission in report after report to suggest that natural wastage will prevent retrenchments. Natural wastage simply creates a pool of unemployment in districts where no further staff is being taken on. It creates uncertainty and it does nothing to create new jobs. There are reports of the IAC mentioned in this Bill which predicted certain employment results. Those predictions have not been borne out. They have caused unemployment. My colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  will point to many of these as far as the electronics industry is concerned, based upon the predictions of the IAC. 
Those predictions have caused us to lose much of the technological base of Australia. They have stopped the flow of skilled labour and new techniques which meant even greater worker skills and satisfaction. As I have said, some of the reports on which this Bill is based have proved to be wrong. The processes which brought this situation about can be reversed but guidelines more precise than the Prime Minister has been prepared to give are needed. The only one that I can find is that in the  Australian Financial Review  of 4 February where the Prime Minister is reported as saying that it is no use the IAC running off and coming up with a report which was unacceptable to the Government. Perhaps he meant- and I put it to him- the superphosphate report. 
I want to see a better system, one where if there is a political decision taken in respect of a specific industry, and that decision is that we should not pay the cost of having that industry, its phasing out is done in consultation with employers and employees alike, to ensure that there is no disruption to our social fabric. Of course we will meet with vested interests which claim some special right to exist in their present form simply because they have always existed in that way. We have seen this in the case of the farmers who have claimed some special right to earn profits simply because they choose to live on the land. In common with any other industry, those engaged in farming must face the market place. If they cannot compete, they must invest their resources or employment elsewhere. 
Our present system is not good enough. It simply does not take the hard decision whether to have or not to have a particular industry and then achieve that aim by the least disruptive means. It does not face up to the fact that if we are determined to have an industry whether for employment purposes, whether because it provides a technological base or whether it is an infant industry which can grow to a world standard, we must be prepared to pay the cost. 
In addition to those remarks,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with respect to the tariff legislation now before us I wish to introduce a subject matter so closely allied with the tariff that a lot more should be said about it in this Parliament and a lot more notice should be taken of it outside this Parliament by those who observe industries, the effect of government decisions on industries and the effect of outside bodies like the IAC in their recommendations on industry. I refer of course to the question of structural adjustment. The discussion of structural adjustment is very much in its infancy in Australia. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  pages 182, 183 and 184 of the Jackson Committee report on this aspect. 
-I thank the House. In its report, the Jackson Committee on Manufacturing Industry points to the fact that over the last decade, prior to our thinking about this development, many European countries have increased the emphasis on assistance to facilitate the process of structural change. The report gives many explanations of aspects of our thinking about structural adjustment- not just to industries, not just to handouts, not just to employees, but taking into account the whole geographic impact of some of the adjustments that must take place in an economy- and proposes that allied with the acceptance of a report from the Industries Assistance Commission by any government we have some other level of support to see that the people are not left stranded, to see that equipment is not wasted and to see that there is no great disruption in the social fabric, as I said earlier in my speech. I wish to quote what the Jackson Commute said when agreeing with the thrust of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on the question of structural adjustment. It states: 
In Chapter 8, we argue that negative measures to bring about change such as tariff cuts should be matched by positive measures of equal force and effectiveness designed to bring about the desired attributes of industry. The forward looking measures favoured by the OECD should be used for this purpose. Structural adjustment assistance should be used to avoid the kind of reversal of a tariff reform program which has occurred in the present economic downturn. 
Of course they there refer to the 1974 downturn. They continue: 
It should provide a real alternative to the use of higher trade barriers and ad hoc grants to firms to maintain employment; the latter tend to inhibit rather than facilitate adjustment. 
We also recognise that change must be managed at a rate which is generally accepted, to maintain social cohesiveness. 
The justification for income maintenance to individuals and closure compensation to firms is largely based on equitythose who bear the costs of a change that benefits the community as a whole should be compensated. We support limited adjustment assistance measures of this type to the extent that they meaningfully contribute to social cohesiveness. 
I think it is a very important aspect of the Jackson Committee report which looks at manufacturing industry and which has now come under a great deal of scrutiny from all government bodies, the Government itself and the rural community and its representatives, that there ought to be not only thinking in terms of whether a company is efficient or inefficient, whether it is profitable or unprofitable or whether it should continue to operate because it is perhaps in a country area, but also there ought to be a permanent government fixture or infrastructure that can deal with the effects of the operation of IAC reports. 
I want to refer to a paper on adjustment assistance for manufacturing industry which was put out by Charles and Farrell and presented to the fifth conference of economists at Brisbane in August 1975. They too recognise that so little work has been done in Australia on this question. In fact, in their opening sentence they state: 
Adjustment assistance for manufacturing industry is a very new development in Australia. This probably reflects the fact that until recently Government policy in relation to import competition has been directed essentially at preserving existing industrial structures rather than in bringing about change. 
The fact is, of course, that we are going to have to live with a great deal of change. No one could or should predict that manufacturing industry will undergo the same sort of development in the next 20 years that may have taken place in the last 20 years. Obviously our responsibilities to the countries to our north, which is a subject about which I have spoken in this House previously, should be of prime importance to us. It would seem that the labour intensive industries of the developed world will perhaps find their way into these Asian countries which will then also be able to become economically independent. So we may see a great deal of change in Australia. But, as Charles and Farrell say, structural adjustment has not been pushed into the background because we thought in terms of preserving what was there and not in terms of the fact that change was going to take place. It never existed to be pushed into the background. People just did not think in terms of what that meant. 
I want to quote what Charles and Farrell have to say in their document. Also I would like to have incorporated all of the tables relating to the impact of the 25 per cent tariff cut, the structural adjustment and the income maintenance which has been paid over the last 2 or 3 years. They say. 
The need for, and therefore the costs of adjustment assistance will be minimised if a well-planned strategy of tariff and industrial reform is employed. 
All of these things are related. One cannot talk about the tariff, employment, structural assistance and manufacturing industry in isolation. All of these things are related. Whenever we talk in this Parliament about amendments to manufacturing industry legislation, whenever we are called upon to speak to forums or to take part in debates outside of this House, we should recognise the impact of the interrelationship between all of these things. Until we do so very little effort will be made to overcome the enormous problems and sometimes the human hardships that are thrust upon people by the effect not only of LAC reports but in some cases a downturn in the economy or a downturn in a particular industry. If we had this sort of infrastructure, it would be there to help people as also would be the National Employment and Training scheme if it had not been downgraded. One of the reasons I am so critical of the present Government is that it has downgraded the NEAT scheme. It was a plan to retrain people. This was something new in Australia. Instead of being dismantled, it should have been consolidated. We should recognise the fact that many people in Australiafar more in the future than ever in the past- will have to carry out a number of occupations throughout their lifetimes. Particularly unskilled and semi-skilled people will have to be trained, retrained and then retrained over again before their working days are over. 
It is further stated in the paper that the object of adjustment assistance is not merely to replace one form of long term assistance- for example, tariffs- by another form of long term assistancefor example, subsidies. Structural adjustment does not mean replacing one form of assistance with another. Structural adjustment is a very positive measure to see that all the people affected not just one area of the community- accept all the responsibility of change. I believe that the Government should act on a report on industry which was presented in the House on Tuesday. The Industries Assistance Commission has stated in this report that some 400 men may lose their jobs in small engineering works. Why should those 400 men in small engineering works with their respective skills have to accept all the responsibility of change because the Government says that it wants that change or because it says that it is uneconomic to keep those 400 people in those jobs in all those small engineering works around Australia? Why do we not say: 'We know the hardships you will have to put up with. Some of you may even have to shift. We will assist you to shift. Some of you may have to change your occupations. Some of you may have to retrain. We will help you with all those things because we consider your acceptance of our plan the best thing for Australia' 
No person in Australia will ever be convinced that it is the best thing for Australia for that person to lose his job if the Government does not have any plan to supplement what occurs after the job is gone. We have seen many plans in this regard. Unfortunately, we have not seen enough national plans, but we have seen several plans adopted. The longshoremen on the west coast of the United States of America have a contract with the shippers that has been in operation for years. If redundancy occurs on the wharves among the longshoremen, they are paid a certain amount of money. They are shifted to wherever they want to go. That move is paid for. Their houses are bought. They are re-established and as much as possible is done to find them new employment. If these measures were instituted hand in hand with what the Government considers to be the best economic process for Australia there is likely to be a greater measure of acceptance of those economic processes. 
The paper points out what happened when the 25 per cent tariff cut was instituted. The Goverment announced that if the employer signed a document that an employee had lost his job as a result of the tariff cut- by direct government action- the employee could continue to receive his wages for 6 months. It was very difficult for people at that time to organise themselves into a protest against that Government measure because at least the Government provided that merest of formalities, that is, pay for the affected employees for 6 months. The Government may have said: 'If you have to shift, shift yourself. If you have to find another job, you do it for yourself. If your kids have to change their schools that is your business. All we are saying to you is, here is your pay for 6 months'. But at least it was something new in Australia and it was accepted. Members of the Parliament who were here at that time, particularly those representing substantially industrial electorates, would know that there were only very meek protests and that people accepted it as some form of government assistance which recognised that people would be affected by what happened. 
One of the difficulties we have is in the rural areas. I know that we have not debated rural matters very often. But views have been put forward through members of the House and by way of circulars from rural interests to the effect that the rural sector is carrying aU the responsibility for the tariff cut, that this is unfair and that something ought to be done about it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  tables from the Statistician that are included in this paper. They are tables printed on pages 16, 17 and 18 of the document which point out the difficulties involved. 
-Of course the real test- without raising our voicesabout what happens with education will come with the Budget, and we will just sit here quietly. We know the honourable members from Tasmania. We saw them break down over the funeral benefits for pensioners so we can imagine what they will do over education. We will wait and see. If the honourable member finds being a member of Parliament too difficult he has an alternative. He can go back to Tasmania and seek some other employment. Quorums and divisions are provided for in the Standing Orders. 
I rise tonight to speak briefly on the question of the Australian Assistance Plan. I was originally a cynic about the Australian Assistance Plan but I have become a reasonably strong supporter of the scheme because I have seen the 58 organisations which needed funds and which were funded to the extent of about $504,000 in the western region of Adelaide, which includes not only my own electorate but also Hindmarsh and parts of Hawker and Kingston. A further 60 organisations in that region now have applications before the council of the Australian Assistance Plan seeking funds totalling $403,000. 1 know that if that money is received by these organisations it will do a lot to assist the way in which they in turn help the community and do a great job. I sincerely hope that the seminar that will be conducted this weekend in Canberra, although it has been broken down because of the restraint this Government wants everybody to show, nevertheless convinces the Government that the Australian Assistance Plan is here to stay. 
I rise tonight not merely to justify the existence of the Australian Assistance Plan. I am a little sorry that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  is not here. I say that not in a derogatory manner. The honourable member for Hume quite legitimately raised the question of whether too much of the money provided under the Australian Assistance Plan goes in fact to salaries and administration and too little goes into the community. He made a very protracted contribution on the adjournment debate one night on this subject. However, the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development has taken the trouble to point out to the honourable member for Hume in a very comprehensive reply, as it ought to have done, the way in which the money is spent under the plan in our area and the proportion of each dollar that goes to the community groups and the proportion that is retained for administration. The reply shows, at least for the western region of Adelaide, quite serious flaws in the argument of the honourable member for Hume. I seek leave- I have spoken about it to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is at the table- to have the reply of the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development incorporated in  Hansard so  that people can read both the statement by the honourable member for Hume and the reply, not from me but from the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development. 
WESTERN ADELAIDE REGIONAL COUNCIL FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 
A.A.P. Australian Assistance Plan 64a Woodville Road, 
Woodville, 
South Australia SOU. telephone 45 110345 6761 6th April, 1976. 

 Mr Stephen Lusher, Member of Parliament for Hume, Parliament House, CANBERRA. A.C.T. 2600. 
Dear  Mr Lusher, 
It was with a great deal of interest that we read the extracts from Hansard reporting your speech on the Australian Assistance Plan, given in the House of Representatives on March 4, 1976. It is only due to the interest displayed by 
Members of the House of Representatives that a scheme such as the Australian Assistance Plan can function properly in its context in the community. 
It is unfortunate, however, that some of the matters raised by you don't seem to have been properly answered by the Social Welfare Commission's 'Green Paper'. Please allow us therefore to point out some of the areas in which your perception of the Australian Assistance Plan may not be totally accurate. 
You state, for example, 'According to the report the cost of the administration and salaries of each region within the Australian Assistance Plan is based on a figure of about $66,000 in a full year'. You may notice through the 'Green Paper' that this is a recommendation for the future. In fact, for the financial year of 1975-76 each Regional Council for Social Development was allocated the sum of $40,000 for these purposes. That means that for the 34 regions you quote the amount of expenditure on administration grants would be $1.36m and not $2.2m. That, in other words, represents 1 8.5 per cent of the $7.4m not, as you stated, 40 per cent of the allocation. 
You further say 'in other words it is costing something like $2.2m to hand out $5.2m'. This may superficially appear to be the case. We can, of course, not speak for any region other than the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development. However at the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development the figures are much more encouraging than may be assumed by looking on raw data figures. 
The Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development has at its disposal $456,000 to be given to the community in grants to support community welfare activities. We have asked our Administrative Officer to prepare a statement (attached) indicating the amount of money it costs to administer those 456,000 dollars. As you may see from the statement, the figure is approximately $7,500. That represents about 1.65 per cent of the total grant figure of $456,000. That compares with 1.82 per cent of the total figure of funds available to the Department of Social Security spent on administrative and salaries, ($87m out of $4,772m) and, as you said earlier in your speech, that is 'not inordinately high'. 
This error in calculation is no doubt due to the assumption that Regional Councils for Social Development are established for the sole purpose of administering Capitation Grants. As the Green Paper documents, up till 1975-76 only 14 out of the 34 listed regions were, in fact, performing this function of administering Capitation Grants. In addition to that, all regions (both the unfunded as well as those regions with Capitation Funds) are performing social planning and community development activities. These activities are outlined on page 8 of the Green Paper and are quoted here for easier reference. 1.1 The Australian Assistance Plan (the AAP) is essentially a Plan for planning- it provides resources to enable a community to plan and develop social services in a way which reflects community needs and priorities. 1.2 It is concerned with the planning and co-ordination at a regional level of matters affecting social development. Through it all levels of government, community organisations, groups and individuals can become involved in social planning. 1.3 The AAP should be seen as complementing other planning mechanisms which may be established between the Commonwealth Government and State Governments within the social welfare sector. 1.4 The AAP is implemented through the establishment of Regional Councils for Social Development (RCSDs) which are independent organisations with a legal identity and which derive their income mainly from an administrative grant from the Commonwealth Government. This grant is intended to meet the basic salary and administrative costs of each Council. 1.5 By its composition and activities each Regional Council for Social Development enables government (i.e. Federal, State and Local Government), together with local organisations and interested members of the community, to consider the social needs of an area and the changing patterns of those needs; and then to plan for measures which will lead to an integrated and comprehensive range of social services being established within that region. 1.6 When fully implemented the AAP is intended to extend to every region of Australia although its actual operation may differ between the various states and within states between rural and urban areas. 1.7 The AAP provides a method of bringing together within a region all groups either with interests in or responsibilities for social development. Regional planning bodies have been created for other functions of government such as education, health, electrical supply and sewerage. Some of these are based on one level of government along, e.g. local governing authorities, but others are not. Regional Councils for Social Development complement these regional planning bodies. 1.8 The AAP provides some financial resources to be allocated by the Regional Councils for Social Development by way of grants for community welfare activities. However, this is not the major source of welfare grants. Other specific Commonwealth Government programs such as Community Health, Child Care, Community Arts, Tourism and Recreation, and the Aged and Handicapped Persons programs, for example, are the main source of funds for particular aspects of community welfare. 1.9 The Regional Councils advise the Commonwealth Government on the need for services in each region which may be funded through these specific programs. 
A statement is attached which outlines some of the activities in the social planning and community development field that the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development has been involved in, other than the administration of capitation funds. You may see quite readily from this list that the vast majority of man hours is employed with assisting the community in a variety of ways other than merely handing out capitation funds. 
The Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development, in other words, uses capitation grants as only one of its resources to assist the community. Other resources include staff expertise and skills, and availability for assistance to the community. 
In your statement to Parliament you also refer to the breakdown of some of these administrative costs. These costs, as outlined in the 'Green Paper', are only a sample of what cost might occur in the administration of a Regional Council. This will of course vary from region to region as per requirements due to the size of population, area to be covered by the region, etc. In our case the cost of the executive officer who is, in fact, the Director of Social Planning, is about $13,800. In addition to that there is an Administration Officer who is in charge of capitation funding as well as providing advice to community groups (as far as their administrative problems are concerned) at a cost of approximately $1 1,000. Then there is a Secretary at the cost of $7,238 per annum. You may agree that all these figures are relatively low for the quality of service which is expected. Staffing overheads, as indicated by the 'Green Paper' amount to approximately 12.5 per cent of total salaries for payroll taxes, holiday pay loading, sick leave, workers compensation and other associated items. This amounts to another $4,000. 
* The significance or being a Director of Social Planning rather than an executive officer alone, is that apart from the executive functions this officer U also involved in social planning activities, including research, liaison work etc. 
When all this is added up, the figure of $36,000 has been reached. In addition to that, there are office rent, cost of equipment, stationary and supplies, telephone and postage expenses, etc. It is quite obvious that the figure of $40,000 at the moment is totally inadequate to cope with such requirements. There are insufficient funds to pay adequate travelling allowances, let alone, as you indicated in your speech, purchasing a car. 
All this so far has made no reference whatsoever to the tremendous amount of benefit to be derived by the community through the voluntary efforts put in by many members of the community. The AAP is an ideal vehicle to encourage and actually get the support (free of charge) of many skilled, dedicated and interested people. 
If the AAP were to be restructured it would be questionable whether there would still be the incentive for such voluntary participation which in itself must be worth a great deal of money in voluntary man hours. 
The Western Adelaide Regional Council of Social Development is fortunate to have amongst its members such notable people as 3 local Mayors, a number of Aldermen, several medical practitioners, a Regional Director of the Department of Community Welfare, a member of Parliament, Chairman of Community Councils for Social Development, a Superintendent of Police, a Baptist Minister and other activists in the community. 
The sheer potential, in terms of human resources, of such a group indicates the tremendous savings to government and the community by having an organisation such as the Regional Council for Social Development to bring together these people for the benefit of the community. 
We are putting a great deal of emphasis on this because it is an integral part of the process involved in the AAP which was not mentioned by you in your speech. 
Leading on from that, you may agree that the statement 'so it would cost $6m. to hand out $7.5m.' can no longer be seen as accurate. The $6m. administration grant, better called 'community development and social planning grant' involves a great variety of activities for the benefit of the community other than handing out the remaining $7. 5m. in grants. 
As for your statements on Professor Harris' minority report, it must be said that the Australian Assistance Plan is, in fact, working on a locality basis. Regional Councils are large enough to assist in making sure that the various local activities are co-ordinated and are co-operating with each other, but at the same time it must be stressed that both our capitation grant and our staff assistance is given to local groups, and not merely to regional or even larger bodies. We consequently disagree most strongly with the statements in the minority report, especially in view of the fact that Local Government, State Government, Federal Government, and Voluntary Agencies are well represented on our Regional Council ( as per Ministers ' Agreement and our Constitution). 
May I, at this point, quote from a statement made by the Minister for Social Security, the  Hon.  D. L. Chipp, on November21, 1975: 'Where the AAP is introduced with the support of State Government and guarantees the involvement of Local Government in its operation, a Liberal-National Country Party Government will continue to promote the development of the AAP and recognise Regional Councils for Social Development which have been set up on such a basis of cooperation between all levels'. 
May I quote further from the same statement: 'The Liberal and National Country Parties reiterate their commitment to supporting and enlarging participation in the decision-making structures relating to the AAP and reaffirm their commitment to the on-going nature of the Plan as a means of assisting individuals, groups and areas in greatest need of social welfare assistance at the community level . . .' 'We are in favour of increased funds for social welfare projects and agree that the AAP is, basically, a suitable vehicle through which social welfare funds may be channelled to the community . . .' 'Accordingly, a Liberal-National Country Party Government will continue the AAP as an experimental programme but will immediately consult with all Regional Councils for Social Development that have already been established to examine and review the progress of the AAP programme. In this review, care will be taken to avoid disruption to any legitimate community programmes already underway and there will be no changes made merely for the sake of change. In this review we will be concerned primarily to see that the AAP fulfils its original promise as a participatory scheme which gives all sections of the population a say in their community . . .' 'It has been falsely stated that the Liberal-National Country Party Government opposes the operation on a regional basis of diverse administrative, participatory and financial structures under the AAP. This is simply untrue '. 
May I on this occasion also quote from the official Liberal and National Country Parties Social Welfare Policy Document: 'We welcomed the introduction of the Australian Assistance Plan, because we believed that provision of some Commonwealth funds and assistance would act as a catalyst for citizen involvement in positive community service. We applauded the AAP's announced objective of establishing experimental schemes to see how grass roots participation could be increased. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties reiterate their commitment to supporting self-help groups and enlarging participation in decision-making. The AAP, however, has established some permanent structures in the guise of pilot experiments, and these need urgent evaluation. 
Imposition of artificial regions against the wishes of, and without consulting State and local governments is undesirable. We are concerned that the AAP does not appear to be adequately assisting those areas in greatest need, while devoting considerable proportions of its funds to affluent areas. Doubts about the plan and the inadequacies of prescribed and acceptable audit requirements. 
On returning to government we would re-examine the AAP. A Liberal and National Country Party government would immediately consult with the States, local governments and voluntary associations, with a view to establishing several pilot participatory schemes. We would encourage these schemes to have diverse administrative, participatory and financial structures, so that it might be determined which structures achieve the most desirable results in which situations'. 
This official policy statement raises a few important points. The Western Region of Adelaide can very well be seen as a natural community which does not consider itself imposed by the  Canberra government.  Evidence of this is that the AAP region and the Regional Organisation of Councils region is virtually the same and that on repeated occasions the Regional Organisation of Councils and its members have made it clear that it is their wish to retain the current boundaries. 
As far as the needs of the area are concerned there can be no doubt that the Western Adelaide Region is one of the most under-privileged in Adelaide and consequently it cannot be said that the funds of the AAP are going to affluent areas. 
Let me stress once more that due to the representation of all three levels of government and non-government voluntary community welfare agencies the Western Adelaide Regional Council for Social Development serves very well the role of a co-operating and liaising body which does not impose its views on the community but is representative of community opinion. 
We hope that in light of the information supplied to you herewith you will agree that the final statement of your speech 'if we are looking at fairly small cuts in the light of the Government's financial activities then I think that these amounts should be looked at seriously because I do not believe that any government could accept the recommendation in a report which asks for administrative expenses of $6m. in order to hand out to people an amount of $7.Sm.' are no longer accurate. We are seeking your assistance in bringing to the attention of Parliament this different and more accurate point of view. 
There can be no doubt whatsoever that many community groups have benefited greatly from the assistance of the Australian Assistance Plan, both financially and through the expertise provided by Community Development and Social Planning staff. The Australian Assistance Plan provides an opportunity for the community to determine its own needs and to do something about them. We feel that with the assistance of yourself and your parliamentary colleagues these benefits to the community can continue in the future. 
Yours faithfully, 
BENFREDJ 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Have customs officers been instructed that, in conducting searches of persons, they should follow the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission, particularly paragraphs 133 and 207 of the Commission's Interim Report on Criminal Investigation. 
If so, why did the events of 4 March 1976 occur which resulted in a female student standing naked in the customs examination area at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
If instructions to customs officers to observe the recommendations of the Law Reform Commission have not been issued, will he issue those instructions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
In respect of the Industries Assistance Commission Report,  Dyeline Base Paper (By-law),  dated 18 June 1975 which was tabled in the Parliament on 25 February 1 976, on what date did the then Minister for Police and Customs inform the applicant that the matter would be referred to the Commission for inquiry. 
What was the reason for the delay between that date and 23 December 1974 when the reference to the Commission was given. 
What reasons existed for the delay in releasing the report for over 8 months, when the report clearly indicates that its release would not cause damaging speculation. 
Does he intend to accept the recommendations of the report. 
If so, when will a refund of duty, which was paid on goods imported between March 1974 and March 1975, be made. 
Is there any provision whereby the companies concerned may be recompensed for the interest charges and other costs involved in the payment of these duties over 2 years ago. 
Will he give an assurance that delays of this nature will not occur again. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that we on the Opposition side of the House are very much aware of the difficulties of adopting an automotive industry plan for this country which is all things to all men. However, I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the effects of the removal of the non-reversion rule on the automotive component industry in Australia. Does he realise that the removal of that rule prior to the consolidation of the old and new automotive manufacturers in Australia could have a devastating effect on the component industry? Is he aware that the honourable member for Melbourne, the honourable member for Corio and I made these predictions in our statements to the House on the new car plan? Will the Prime Minister institute an instant inquiry into the effects on the component industry of Australia of the removal of the non-reversion rule? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Temporary Assistance Authority precluded from recommending temporary protection for Australian industry unless it can be shown that the industry is being damaged by imports. 
Does that Authority take the view that if an Australian manufacturer is also importing goods, no additional protection should be recommended, on the grounds that the Australian manufacturer may solve the problem by ceasing his imports. 
If so, what machinery exists to prevent other parties taking up the imports which would be relinquished by Australian manufacturers. 
Will he give guidelines to the Authority to prevent an 
Australian manufacturer being forced completely out of business, leaving the field open to new importers, simply because he has had the temerity to manufacture in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Did he release the Industry Assistance Commission's report on spectacles, sunglasses, etc., by press release on a day when the House was sitting; if so, why. 
Does his press release of the same day, relating to duty free admission of cars over 30 years old, call for a change in the Customs Tariff. 
Will he give an assurance that matters such as this will be brought before the House, instead of being first publicised through the media, so that members may debate the issues before industry adjusts to new rules. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Do import licence restrictions apply to motor vehicles which are imported as the personal property of passengers. 
If so, under what circumstances is such a licence conditioned to require that the vehicle will not be sold or otherwise disposed of. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many taxpayers are waiting to have appeals against their assessments heard by a Taxation Board of Review. 
What is the average waiting time for an appeal to be heard. 
-In speaking to the Appropriation Bills, firstly let me say to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  that he will probably get a smack across the knuckles one of these days, probably as soon as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  finds out he is here and knows what he is up to. I do not have to apologise for the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I think it was rather presumptuous of the honourable member for Hindmarsh to make comments on the trade union movement, considering he was almost 25 years of age before he became the General Secretary of the Australian Workers Union in South Australia; considering that he spent only 13 years in that profession; considering that he spent another 20 years as an executive member of the South Australian 
Branch of the Union and was a delegate to the International Labour Conference; considering that he was shadow Minister and Minister for Labor for many years in the national Parliament; and considering that the first trade union college in Albury-Wodonga was named after him. So, I would think that we ought not to take too seriously his comments on the manner in which trade union ballots are conducted! As the honourable member for Denison said, the honourable member for Hindmarsh might have said something different in 1 95 1 . 
Let us relate to something a little more relevant. The present Prime Minister of this country said, in the lead up to the December election: 'I support, my Government will support and we will continue to support full indexation'. It may interest honourable members opposite to know that the Government Parties have had 5 policies on indexation since 1 December last year. Now they are asking the trade union movement and the wage and salary earners of this country to put trust in the Government. They say: 'We will do the right thing by you' when they have already announced, as I have said, 5 policies on indexation. Now we have the amazing performance of the Prime Minister last night on television trying to assure the people of Australia that everything will be rosy, that whatever he does to hurt them he will do something else to help them overcome that problem. It is very difficult to question anybody making a speech on television, but when given the first opportunity today in the national Parliament of this country to expand on some of the comments he made last night he was unable to do so. 
I want to refer to the  Statement of Savings Expected in Annual Appropriations  which was tabled with the Appropriation Bills by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  because it does not seem that the Prime Minister is too anxious to do so. It must be very demoralising for the Government to find that its greatest supporter, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  criticised what the Prime Minister said last night. Not only that; it did so on its mad page, page 6, where one would expect the Sydney Morning Herald never to deviate. Whatever it says on pages 1 to 5 and from page 7 to the classifieds, never ever on page 6 will it say anything to condemn the conservative forces of this country. The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial contains criticisms of what the Prime Minister had to say, or in fact criticisms of what the Prime Minister did not say. Of course this Government, as the  Sydney Morning Herald  points out, will destroy the concept of Medibank as it was introduced by the Labor Administration. There will be no such thing as national health insurance in this country after Thursday night's statement. The Government will divide the country between the low and middle income earners, and the high income earners. Of course it will see that the people who earn most will be treated under private health insurance and that others will be looked after by Medibank, which will be looked upon in this country, after the Thursday night announcement, as a second class health system. If the  Sydney Morning Herald  can see it, as it appears from this morning's editorial, everyone ought to be able to see it. 
The honourable member for Denison says that the back bench members fought very hard on the $40 funeral benefit even though in the final analysis they capitulated and voted for the legislation to go through the House of Representatives. We predicted accurately what would occur. We said it would come back from the Senate amended. Members of the back bench bowed to the master who said that the legislation involving a sum of $1.7m must go through the House- a most amazing political decision if ever there was one. Now we are being told that they will stand up to some of the major decisions that will have to be made by this Government on questions like Medibank. Who on the other side of the House has raised any of the questions contained in the document entitled  The New Investment Allowance"!  Has anyone said in the Party room that this may not be the best thing for Australia? Honourable members opposite do not give all the flamboyance to publications relating to taking money away as they do to publications relating to money which is being given out. 
Perhaps there may be no great criticism from this side about the 40 per cent investment allowance instituted by the Government to get the private sector going. Let me just read some of the things that are in the publication to try to attract people to invest their money, and which show how much they will save.  The New Investment Allowance  states: 
At the company tax rate of 42.5 per cent an investment of $50,000, for example, gives a tax bonus of $8,500 that is itself tax-free- the bonus is $850 for an investment of $5,000. 
Everybody is asked to go to the addresses of the offices which are printed on the back of the publication and to find out how they can get money from the Government. If people go to a different office they can obtain the document  Statement of Savings Expected in Annual Appropriations  and find out how their hopes and aspirations for a decent community in this country are being dashed by this Government. This 
Government says that it has to save money. Let us look at what savings really do right across the board when talked about in these terms. They mean reduced services to the public in health, social welfare and education, and reduced employment opportunities both in the private and public sector at a time when hundreds of thousands are out of work. It is gross waste as projects on which money has already been spent are left uncompleted, and it is gross inefficiency as public servants are denied the means to do their job. There are dashed hopes and expectations and broken commitments as communities are denied the funds for projects for which they have worked and planned. It has reduced spending on research and planning, and it has reduced the information available to the public. Let us look at one item in the publication entitled  Statement of Savings Expected in Annual Appropriations.  One item on page 17 shows that $102,000 has been set aside for the operations of the Ombudsman of the national government. How much has the Government saved? It has saved $102,000. No one comes out and says: 'We will not have an ombudsman', but that is what has happened under this Government This is something that Government supporters were beating their chests about in the December election campaign. They said: 'We will give out information. There will be none of the secret things; none of these loan affairs. Under this Government everything will be done right. You will all be applauding us in 3 years '. No one is applauding after 3 months. 
This is the worst group, laughingly called a government, that we have had in Canberra for years. Honourable members should look at all the things that are being said. Let us look at some of the observations that have been made about  Mr Fraser's  contribution last night. Let us look at what Allan Barnes had to say in the Melbourne  Age  about  Mr Fraser's  contribution. He said: 
The disorganised state of the Fraser Government was never more obvious than in the Prime Minister's misconceived address to the nation last night.  Mr Fraser  set out to reassure the Australian public. He succeeded only in confusing them. Instead of setting the scene for his Treasurer's major economic statement on Thursday night, the Prime Minister pre-empted it. 
Further on he said: 
It was a time for simple, direct, honest words from our head of Government. Instead, we got vague promises of substantial 'savings' in Government spending. There was no explanation of what priorities had been applied in achieving these cuts or how they would offset extra expenditure on the investment allowances, the superphosphate bounty, the aid for dairy farmers or income tax indexation and still reduce the dreaded deficit. 
Granted that the Prime Minister was serious about making a broadcast to the nation. Perhaps he could not say as much as he wanted to say last night because of the television time made available to him, although I doubt that extra time would ever be refused if he asked for it. But here in the national Parliament today he could have expanded on his statement. He could have told all honourable members and the people of Australia he was the person who was not going to have any secrets- what all these savings mean. Of course public servants are an easy target. We can all get stuck into them. Public servants were carrying out certain programs but because of the Government's savings many public servants are sitting in their offices twiddling their thumbs. They cannot carry out their duties. Let us take a couple of examples. The first one relates to Aboriginal vocational officers from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The job depends very much on travelling throughout their areas of responsibility in the country and country towns finding jobs for the Aboriginal people. It depends on travel and travel allowances. Now it has been disbanded. That concept was applauded by honourable members from both sides of the House. It was designed to assist people who had additional difficulty in finding employment. But what do we find? The Government is now boasting that it has made a gigantic saving. What the saving means is that fewer and fewer Aboriginal people will be able to find employment. I hope that the Government is proud of that little saving. 
We see on page 66 of the Treasury Information Paper how much money is to be saved on housing. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that we have too much housing in Australia, that no one is waiting for a house, least of all those on low incomes! A lot of honourable members opposite represent areas in which people are queued up all the time trying to find accommodation. But they sit on the Government benches boasting of saving $20m when housing is desperately needed in Australia. Those are the people who are feeling the blow. Let us look at the area improvement programs. If there was one policy of the Whitlam Administration which was of enormous assistance to local organisations it was the area improvement program. A lot of the ideas as to how the money was to be spent were generated from within the communities themselves. Now the Government says that it is saving $4.5m. Those communities which may have raised money to do part of the work themselves now find that the concept has been completely disbanded. 
The Government should not tell us that it intends to start them up again. It says: 'We are stopping them only for a little while until we get inflation under control'. One would think that honourable members opposite were all new members but almost everybody who sits on the Government front bench was here for part of the time from 1949-1972. Previous Liberal governments did not have those programs. This Government will not bring them back because it did not have any ideas at all about the role which the Australian Government ought to play in the communities of this country. All of those people- especially the person who now leads the Government- always defeated any idea put forward by the Liberal or Country Parties for more involvement in these responsibilities. So do not let us be confused when spokesmen for the Government say: 'We are stopping them only until we have inflation under control, then they will all be re-established.' The Government knows, I know and the Australian people are entitled to know that they will never be reestablished. 
The Government set out to destroy Medibank and the funeral benefit. It is now setting out to destroy many fine programs such as the area improvement program and the Australian Assistance Plan. No doubt it will be hellbent on destroying the Australian Schools Commission. We will see whether at the time of the Budget the hairy-chested back benchers on the Government side will get up and tell the Prime Minister not to touch the Australian Schools Commission. Honourable members opposite should listen to the Treasurer on Thursday night when he talks about some of these programs and saving $2,000m. They are all being taken for a ride. Obviously at the next Senate election we will see the voting figures of 13 December completely reversed and we will have more Labor senators in the upper House to express the views and disappointments of those people who voted for this Government. 
It appears from the Prime Minister's speech last night that all of a sudden the Prime Minister has discovered that there are 300 000 families in the Australian community who pay little or no tax. He announced that he is going to assist them. Again I remind honourable members opposite and the people of Australia that when Labor came to power on 2 December 1972, according to Professor Henderson the former Liberal Government left behind a legacy of 12 per cent of the people of Australia living in poverty. It should come as no surprise to any conservative politician in this country that there are poor people, because it was their policies from 1949-1972 that impoverished 12 per cent of the people of Australia. The Government now says that it is better to put a levy on Medibank, it is better to destroy Medibank as a social instrument and put a bit more money back into the pay packet out of tax indexation because then each family can find its own level. That was the philosophy of  Sir Robert  Menzies, of Holt, of Gorton and of McMahon.  Mr Fraser  was there supporting that philosophy in his years as a Minister. But we will go back to that. 
How are any of the policies being announced by this Government going to overcome the problems we found at the commencement of our 3 years in office? Honourable members opposite should have a look at the Treasury Information Paper and see how the Government is destroying the concept of Australian Government involvement in the Australian communities. It is absolutely disgraceful that this Government should present an argument that money can be taken from health expenditure; not just capital expenditure but research and planning expenditure, areas where money is invested to save money. That expenditure has been axed. To vindicate the decisions of the Australian Government the people are told that the Government will make sure that every department is affected. The Government has even saved $238 from the Inter-Parliamentary Union. I do not know how that was done or who made that magnificent decision. I do not know whether or not it went to the full Cabinet. But the axe had to fall on all departments. The planning and research section of the Health Department has also received the axe, as have the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, the 2 territories for which the Commonwealth Government is absolutely responsible. 
We find cuts in housing, health and child care right across the board, made without thought and with absolutely no relationship to the difficulties of the communities. The Government has decided to follow this act right through and to show the people that it will do what it said in December- that it would cut back the deficit irrespective of its effect on the communities. The figure of $2,000m is supposed to be a magical political solution and it will look impressive, but the Government must put it into effect. Honourable members opposite should go into the communities and talk to people. Those honourable members who come from Melbourne should talk to the Brotherhood of St Laurence and ask about the additional problems that will be thrust upon them. They should talk to people in local government, in the schools which have started new programs under the Australian Schools Commission or the Pre-Schools Commission, and see what will happen to those people if these monies are cut up to and including the time of the Budget. 
The Government is intent on destroying all the concepts of the Labor Administration by saying that it has to defeat inflation, but it is opposed to the concept of Australian Government responsibility. The Government wants to give everything back to the States. It may say that the Premier of Queensland has the same priorities as the Premier of South Australia. That is a laugh. We will see unequal distribution of State resources. Whatever the Premier of Queensland sees as a priority he will push, as against the priorities of the other States. What the previous Government started was to be admired. It was involved with the communities, it listened to the communities and acted upon their advice. All those programs are now being slashed. They should have been consolidated, not slashed because of the Prime Minister's act to endorse the magical deficit figure cutting of $2 ,000m. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who is trying to interject should not talk so much in here but should go and talk to some of the people in his electorate and ask them whether they are happy. Like me, he would have 40 or 50 schools in his electorate, child care centres and dental clinics at the schools, all established by the Labor Administration. He should go and listen for a while and not talk to people all the time. He should ask them whether they endorse the actions taken by this Government. He should ask the Catholic schools with which he is so well associated what they think about the slashing of funds for Catholic schools in this country. He should ask them what would have happened if it had not been for the Australian Schools Commission. He should ask about the migrants and the children who are being taught in the schools in their own language. He should ask them about the cut in their programs. Then he may come to understand what a myth this project of cutting the deficit is. What the Government is doing is getting back to the old philosophy of the years between 1949 and 1972. The only things that Government supporters want to concern themselves with in this Parliament are pensions and foreign affairs. Everything else falls to the States. Honourable members opposite say: 'Do not touch it, do not concern ourselves. We do not want any responsibility for it. In that way something will happen. They say that everything should be taken out of their area and then perhaps we will be better off. The Parliament will not have to concern itself with the real problems of Australian communities. 
-In this Bill, as with other measures associated with customs matters, the Government is proceeding on its path of saying as little as possible to the Parliament and leaving all the details to the officials. It is very difficult to associate the fine words of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who is now at the table, of 29 April last when at page 1810 of  Hansard  he promised to encourage debate on such matters, with the brief second reading speech with which he introduced this Bill. This Bill deals with the value for duty provisions of the custom tariff. It replaces a system that has been in operation since 1922. The value on which the percentage duties are levied is of fundamental importance to any system of protection, and the Customs Act defines the mis-stating of that value as smuggling. So when a change is proposed to that fundamental base it behoves us to proceed with some care. 
The proposals put forward by the Minister effectively change the current base from that of the price paid or the local domestic price in the country of origin to what is effectively the fanmarket price of a transaction at arm's length. The convention, which appears as a schedule to the Bill, is one drawn up by the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels. It details the basis which is used by parties to the convention. One of the requirements is that in broad terms the value for duty base shall be that of cost, insurance and freight- the ci.f. value. That is a reasonable base, and countries which have adopted it have no trouble in setting their levels of protection accordingly. But all along our system has been based on what is virtually the free on board price of goods; that is, the amount less insurance and freight. For Australia to adopt the convention would mean a change to the situation where importers would be paying duty on the insurance and freight. The further away from the source of trade, the greater would be the differential payment with its consequent effects on international trade. 
So we find that in this Bill a different basis is adopted. It is notionally, and I particularly stress that word, the f.o.b. price again, and that is done by clause 4 of the Bill inserting section 154 (3) (d). According to the Minister, the modification is based on a protocol which is awaiting ratification. We have heard of this protocol before. It is set out as appendix 4 of the Green Paper on customs valuation, where it appears without a date. Where a system of valuation has been adopted by over 90 countries, and international trade is flowing on that basis, there would be great reluctance to introduce a change, or even the opportunity to change. One can imagine the confusion which would reign if one of the countries were to adopt this protocol, for it would change the whole level of duties. My understanding is that the proposal has been before the Customs Co-operation Council for some years and it is curious that the Minister should dismiss it so lightly. I would Uke to hear from him just when he expects this protocol to be ratified. 
There are broader social issues at stake. One would have expected the Minister, in introducing such important legislation, to have made at least a passing reference to the issues raised at paragraph 6.1 5 of the Green Paper, with its point that to the extent that an f.o.b. system does not result in a minimisation of social costs there will be a welfare loss to the community. Instead, he tells us that the Green Paper, which canvassed various issues but made no recommendations, was 'generally well received by industry and commerce'. 
I now want to turn,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to some other peculiar aspects of the Minister's second reading speech. With exceptions, which I shall come to, the Minister informed the House that an interdepartmental committee was able to conclude that any difference in total customs duty payable following the implementation of the new system was 'likely to be negligible'. Yet one of the changes which will occur is that henceforth duties will be charged on the outside packages which until now have been dissected in the entry and entered free of duty. The Green Paper reports that there is an average duty rate of 27% per cent so that the amount Will henceforth be charged on the outside packages. It may be a small amount for each shipment, but according to Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, outside packages imported in 1974-1975 were valued at $60,899,002, meaning a duty collection of the order of $ 16.7m. There will be marked changes in the sales tax which is collected and these are set out in chapter 7 of the Green Paper. Yet sales tax is a revenue item. The duties of customs are said to be protective and not for revenue raising. When everyone has put their mark-up on this extra revenue collected on importation, the consumer in the end is likely to be paying some $30m extra. 
For an unknown change in the rate of sales tax collection, for the additional collection of $ 16.7m in customs duty, for some absurd impost on consumers, the Minister managed to devote a couple of lines of his speech. He said it would simplify entry procedures and be more in keeping with commercial procedures. We can find that note 2 to annex II will be added to by the exclusion of containers. We do not find any reference there to the fact that some packaging materials, for example, pallets, are required to be dealt with separately by the tariff, and according to the publication,  Australian Customs Valuation Booklet,  issued in April of this year, these will not be included in the value for duty. As I have said, to all these topics, the Minister devoted a couple of lines in his speech. 
There are other aspects of the change. With caution, the interdepartmental committee, in its Green Paper, said that there were arguments that the abandonment of the present system might lead to a lowering of protection but this could be corrected by tariff revision. And what does the Minister say in his second reading speech? He says that the committee recognised that there could be significant variations in the amount of duty payable, leading to adverse effects on local industries or importers. But never fear, says the Minister, provision will be made for the Industries Assistance Commission to consider possible tariff adjustments for a period of 6 months after adoption of the new system. I ask the Minister whether he is seriously putting forward the proposition that, if the value on which the duties are charged is reduced, and that information will only be available to the importer and the Customs officials handling the invoices, the local industry will be immediately aware of the erosion of their protection. They will only suspect it as they lose markets to imported goods. 
There are probably other changes which will affect importers. Let the Minister explain to us whether all the charges now to be included by note 2 in annex II are already included in the value for duty under the present system. If they are not, what new items are included and what effect will they have on the duties. Let him tell us the reaction he has had from the mercantile community when it realises that henceforth the amount on which it would pay duty would be increased by the allocation of advertising expenses over a period, although unrelated to the particular goods- as set out in the  Valuation 

 Booklet, made available to us in April, at paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14; that discounts will be adjusted on a predetermined scale, paragraph 2.30; that the date on which the rate of exchange is to be calculated may be varied, paragraph 2.44-2.45; that distributor costs may be taken into account, paragraph 3.38; or that future payments will be discounted at the rate for long term government bonds, paragraph 5.6. I quote all these from the  Australian Customs Valuation Booklet.  As a layman, I find this legislation most confusing. Nowhere in existence can I find a copy of the convention as it will exist when this legislation comes into force and it is quite apparent that we will all be faced with difficulties in reading it. 
When the Bland Committee, the Committee on Administrative Discretions, published its final report in October 1973- Parliamentary Paper No. 316 of 1973- it devoted a great deal of the report to the operations of the then Customs Department. It looked at a wide range of administrative discretions and recommended that a review process should be instituted for them. Commencing at page 1 13 of the report, we find a recommendation that appeals should be provided in the case of the value for duty of goods, in sections 154 and 160 of the Customs Act, and in section 7 of the Customs Tariff, in the f.o.b. price in the Customs Tariff section 8 on the inland freight charges for goods from Canada in section 155 of the Customs Act and on the determination of the rate of exchange in section 157. 
The result of those recommendations appears in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975. What is missing from the Schedule at page 29 of that Act is the review of the value for duty and Canadian inland freight provisions and that could be understandable in the light of the changes which were even then proposed. Of course the Administrative Tribunals Act, in section 25 (2), made provision for new legislation to be added to the matters subject to review by the Tribunal but that does not appear in this Bill, before us. One thing the Bland Committee did favour was the provision in section 158 for the appointment of experts to arbitrate whenever there was doubt about the declared value of goods- it appears at page 62 of that report- but in this Bill section 158 has been removed. In the newly issued booklet,  Australian Customs Valuation Booklet,  paragraph 3.20 says: 
It may sometimes be appropriate to have recourse to valuation by experts acceptable to the importer and the Department. 
Now the Minister cannot have it both ways. He cannot come into this House and propose the abolition of the legislation which provides for experts, saying that it is now redundant, while his Department tells the world that experts will be used. 
There are other provisions. Reading the booklet it seems to have little relationship to what is in this Bill but rather is an extension determined by officials. That may be necessary in the changing commercial world but it is equally necessary that there should be clear and concise means of appealing from arbitary official decisions. And how much certainty will there be in business? Bureau of Customs notice no. 76/41 tells the importing community that advice will be available from Customs Houses but that the prime responsibility for establishing the value rests with the importer. Decisions will not be given on the acceptability of valuation assessments before the entry is lodged, that is before the goods are here. What confidence can industry have in this arrangement, save to rely on the good graces of Customs officials? 
It is no use the Minister pointing out that an action at law lies under section 167. That section as it stands says that, if one protests about the amount of duty, the duty charged is the correct duty unless the importer begins a court action. If and when the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act comes into force, an appeal may lie to that body, with a further appeal to the courts on questions of law alone. But all along section 216 of the Customs Act will sit there. The Collector of Customs can detain the goods for as long as he likes if he is not satisfied as to the stated value. With the abolition of section 158, the importer has no recourse but to wait until the officials have determined just what the value will be. 
We recognise that with the adoption of this convention there is going to be a very marked change in the valuation system. The valuation booklet is full of descriptions of what will be notionally calculated and amounts which until now have not been affected by the tariff. I am sure that once the system comes into operation many honourable members will hear from importers who have incurred the extra costs. We also recognise that in abandoning the base of current domestic value there may be an erosion of the protection now afforded to local industry. It is a massive change, one that should not have been brought into this House without the most specific information on its effects. But in principle we do not oppose the change in the base of valuation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What rules exist to determine whether a by-law is made under section 272 of the Customs Act or a determination is made under section 273 of that Act. 
Do the determinations which appear in  Gazette  No. G 16 of 20 April 1976 apply to individual shipments of goods or to all goods imported by any person. 
If those determinations applied to a class of goods, why were they not made as by-laws and published in the Gazette as required. 
What is the legal basis on which determinations, covering classes of goods, are made. 
What is the legal basis for the making of Excise bylaws. 
What provisions exist for a review of by-laws and determinations. 
Have any steps been taken to adopt the recommendations of paragraph 84 of the Final Report of the Committee on Administrative Discretions (Parliamentary Paper No.316ofl973). 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Did his Department publish an advertisement in the Melbourne  Age  of 26 February 1 976 calling for comment on proposals to include items in Schedule A of the New Zealand- Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
If so, does that advertisement indicate that the addition of the commodities named would take effect from 1 January 1976. 
If so, what steps have been taken to prevent speculation in the importation of these goods, when his Department has indicated an intention to make the goods free of duty to a retrospective date. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to advertisements being circulated by Rydge Publications of Sydney headed: 'How would you like an extra $ 1 ,000 take home pay this year'. 
If so, does this advertisement advise businessmen that they can increase their take home pay by a variety of means, such as claiming deductions for food, clothes, houses, purchase of shares, overseas travel, credit cards and expense accounts. 
Does the advertisement also state that all this requires is 'a little co-operation from your company'. 
Will he ascertain which companies have responded to this advertisement, and take steps to invoke section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act against them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a group of Australian engineers and designers approach the Department for support in the development of a revolutionary type of Hovercraft. 
If so, was this group located in a Victorian country town. 
Is it a fact that, because of assistance from the Department of Overseas Trade, Japanese and American interests observed the work in progress, and that the group is now moving to the United States to market its Hovercraft. 
What criteria were applied to the request for assistance, and why did this result in the loss of valuable technology and design facilities. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many small businesses are affected by the introduction of the  City Area Leases Ordinance  1976. 
What is the estimated number of small businesses which will be forced to close in the face of threats of fines of up to $ 10,000 unless they leave business premises. 
What special provisions are being made to ensure that the small businessman who had conducted his business from his home does not join the growing queue of unemployed. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether meat being sold in Sydney supermarkets is being transported to the supermarkets from interstate without undergoing the inspection at the Homebush killing centre, which is required by State law. 
If so, can he also say whether meat from interstate is exempt from these requirements. 
If New South Wales law does not apply to shipments of meat from interstate, will he take steps to ensure that all meat delivered to New South Wales undergoes the necessary  health inspection. 
What amount of (a) beef, (b) veal, (c) lamb and (d) pig meats has been imported into Australia from New Zealand since 1 January 1976, and what are the comparative figures for similar periods for the last 3 years. 
What inspection procedures do imported meats undergo before distribution to retail outlets. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that delegations from 3 major industrial establishments in Australia have come to Canberra today to express their concern about the future of their jobs? As the Minister responsible has informed the delegations that he is too busy to meet them, I ask the Prime Minister whether he will meet a combined delegation from these 3 industries during the day. 
It was my intention today to draw the attention of the House to the tragedy of the school dental scheme which has been hacked around by this so-called Government. It has cut $2,200,000, or 28 per cent, from the total amount which the previous Government committed in its 1975-76 Budget to building dental clinics at primary schools throughout Australia. It was my intention to focus on that matter so that people would be aware that the promises to build dental clinics in the schools throughout Australia have come to a sudden halt. Unfortunately I cannot spend my time on that subject. 
Today I want to talk about a number of the delegations that have been arriving in Canberra. I think that it is important that people in positions of responsibility understand the commitment that these people make in coming here. In the last month we have had something like 5 or 6 days upon which protest delegations have visited Canberra to express their views in one way or another about the problems concerning their own communities. One day we had people here who had been affected by the Government's decision to impose a means test on the national employment and training scheme. They were being retrained and paid a wage under the previous Government and now they find that their livelihood is being taken away by the means testing of the scheme. Yesterday people came here to express their views about uranium mining. They nave a valid case to put. I think that people in the Parliament and outside it should listen to their case. Pensioners have come here to express what they feel may be done to the pension by breaking away from the rate of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings which the Labor Government established. 
We had an education day- it was quite a magnificent day- when something like 2000 people connected with education came to Canberra not only to see the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  but also to talk to every parliamentarian about what they felt was the importance of the Australian Schools Commission and why it should not be interfered with. We are receiving many delegations. Today seems to have been the climax. About five delegations-I said at question time that there were three- have arrived here from industrial plants around Australia to express concern about the future of their jobs. In one case the people are concerned about a recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission; in another case it is about the manner in which Australia has refused to establish what we consider to be key industries. I want to read the way in which a delegation from the dockyard at Newcastle put together its petition. 
I wish the honourable member for Parramatta would understand the difficulties that people in industry get into and how they are concerned about their jobs. He may not be concerned about this but he ought to go to the factories in his electorate and talk to the people and their dependents about how he does not have any concern whether their jobs disappear. The workers in Newcastle wrote their petition in the following terms: 
We the undersigned citizens of Newcastle and surrounding areas, would like to bring to the attention of your Government the vital role Shipbuilding and Ship Repair plays in the economic stability of the Newcastle region. 
A recent study by the Hunter Valley Research Foundation showed that 50 000 people were partially or wholly maintained by the State Dockyard. That stability is at present in jeopardy, as a new ship order is required within the next few weeks if serious unemployment and hardship is to be avoided. 
We ask that your Government place an immediate order with the State Dockyard to advert the imminent lay-offs. 
We would also ask that the previous Government's plans for the building of a Graving Dock in Newcastle be continued. Proper ship repair facilities are a vital factor in the maintenance of a viable shipbuilding industry. 
We believe that your election pledge to restore business and cut unemployment can be implemented in Newcastle if new ship orders and a Graving Dock are granted. 
We do not have a political debate on this issue; it is a question of when and where Australia is going to make the very courageous decision that there are some industries which we think in the national interest ought to be established as key industries, such as we did in the case of the car industry. We say that the car industry has to be maintained in the national interest because tens of thousands of workers and their families are dependent on employment in that industry. No one has an answer as to where those people would work if we were to abolish the car industry. 
Of course, people will argue that shipbuilding in Australia is far too expensive, that the Koreans or the Japanese can build ships cheaper because of their cheap labour. A lot of countries are maintaining their shipbuilding industries with subsidies because they consider it in the national interest to maintain the ability and skills to build ships. It is about time we have a debate in Australia as to whether we will maintain this industry. If we are to abolish the shipbuilding industry in Australia we ought to have some sort of adjustment scheme to find work for the people in the industry and we ought to be able to present an argument that we do not think it is important to have a shipbuilding industry and that we will import all our ships even though we are a great trading nation. 
Other delegations of people are here today. There are 400 people from Martin Wells Pty Ltd who will lose their jobs if the Government accepts the recommendations of the IAC to lift the quotas on the imports of sunglasses, etc. These are some of the decisions. When these people come to Canberra they do so at a sacrifice to themselves. They are not paid to come here. They lose a day's wages. They get up at 5 o 'clock or 4 o'clock in the morning to travel to Canberra to talk to the Ministers, and they ought to be heard. Perhaps some of the honourable members who are not conversant with the problems of the industrial workers ought to listen to them also. 
Of course the honourable member for Bendigo has been out to see them because he has a plant in his own electorate and the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short' and other honourable members who have plants in their electorates have been outside. But just consider the situation of the honourable member for Newcastle (Mr Charles Jones)  or the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  or other honourable members with similar positions in their electorates. They are not thinking in terms of an electorate; they are thinking in terms of what is best for Australia. One cannot say to the people in the Newcastle dockyard or the people at Martin Wells or the people in the aircraft industry: 'It really does not matter. It is too expensive to keep your industry going. You will just have to be added to the 300 000 unemployed'. There is no adjustment scheme in Australia to deal with this. There is no Government agency to which one can go to say: 'We have lost our jobs as a result of the Government decision. Now will you pay for our families to be shifted into an area where we can find like employment at like salary?' There is no scheme in Australia to do this. We will have to establish in Australia a principle about what industries we want here. Obviously we would not establish some industries as key industries. Perhaps these industries would be concerned if we did not do that. But we ought to listen to people from some of the other industries who come to Canberra. 
I understand that as a result of the canvassing of opinions this morning the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has now agreed to meet some of the delegations that have come here and it is very good that he has. I hope that members of the Government parties ask for a full report from the Minister at ther next party meeting as to what can be done to reassure these people. It is not as though we do not need ships. Tenders have been called for something like 8 ships ranging from 13 000 tons to 70 000 tons. That would provide enough work for 5 000 shipbuilders for 6 years, if we can place the orders in Australia. If we are not going to do that the Government has to make a decision as to what will happen to these people. But let us have the debate first about whether we should have a shipbuilding industry because that is the important question. The White Paper on the Jackson Committee report is wanted urgently to indicate what this Government will do and what Australia will have. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a circular issued by the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council, March 1976, which states that without the existence of tariffs the price of wool would be 40 cents per kilogram higher, and that the beef industry had been penalised to prop up an inefficient textile industry. 
If so, has he examined these statements. 
What action does the Government intend to take oh them. 
It is nice that the Parliament is informed of these proposals shortly after the Press release has been issued. I merely formally move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Much has been said by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and by Government spokesmen about the fact that the statement delivered by the Treasurer last Thursday was designed to inspire Australia into a new confidence, that it would solve all the economic problems of this country, and that no longer would those who are unemployed have a dark future confronting them. The Liberal Party was in fact hell bent on turning on the lights, as we were told for the 3 weeks prior to 13 December. 
I carried out what I thought was an honest exercise in politics by comparing the 2 major statements of the Liberal and National Country Partiesthe one that they made as the lead-up to the election of 13 December and the one that has just been made in respect of economic policy. The first statement was made by the Prime Minister as he is now, or the Prime Minister as he was then after being installed as Prime Minister by the Governor-General. The policy statement on the economy was made by the Treasurer. I compared the policy speech and the economic statement and found that they were quite different statements. One would have thought that they came from different parties. One would have thought that the parties were not in fact in Government at all. 
I do not know how anyone in Australia is going to be inspired into a new confidence when they can read into these 2 documents the gigantic fraud that has taken place in Australian politics in terms of what the people were told when their votes were up for grabs and what they are being told not  2Vi  years before the next election. It is of interest that the Supply Bills are now before the Parliament. There are no irresponsible spokesman on this side of the House saying the same sort of things that were said by Liberal and National Country Party spokesmen during our term in office. What the Liberal and National Country Party people are going to find, of course, and as they have included in so many of their statements, is that if we are to have responsible government in this country, if there is to be proper economic planning in this country, if we are to avoid many of the problems which are thrust upon other countries, when a government is elected it must see out its term of office. The problems which this Government is now trying to overcome and which in fact we tried to overcome during our term in office were accentuated by the tactics of the then Opposition which was able, because it had the majority in the Senate, to reject many of the decisions which were to go towards overcoming those problems whilst we were in office. 
It is extremely difficult for anybody on this side of the House- and I would think judging by their actions outside the House, the citizens of this country- to regain any new confidence in this Government. One would have thought, if the Government is so close to the powers that be in this country, if it has the confidence of the captains of industry in this country, that all that confidence would have come flowing back on the night of 13 December when the Government gained its enormous majority in the House of Representatives and significant majority in the Senate. What has occurred subsequently? There has been no evidence, in spite of the 40 per cent investment allowance, that all industry has taken up the slack. There has been no enormous shift from unemployed to employed. In fact, the problems that the Government is facing today are even greater than the problems that were confronting the Liberal and Country Parties whey they were installed in office, again by the actions of the Governor-General, on 1 1 November. So let us rid this chamber of the myth that confidence just happens and depends upon who sits to the right of the  Speaker.  It is not that at all. Confidence depends on the policies and the actions that are taken by a Government to overcome the problems so that the people outside the Parliament of Australia can perhaps have some confidence in the individuals here and the policies they put forward. 
I raise this question because the 2 major documents that have been put before the people of Australia by this present Government are, as I say, the policy speech of the Prime Minister prior to 13 December and now this economic statement. In so many areas they contradict each other. A promise now becomes something that cannot be done. From a reading of almost every page of the policy speech one can see that when the Government wanted the votes everything could be done. There were to be no cuts. The Prime Minister when being interviewed on the television program  Monday Conference  last Monday said that the promises that were made before the elections in December last year had to be seen in the election context. What does that mean? It means, of course, that when one goes to an election one can say anything so long as one can get the votes. It means that one does not have to worry about what one says because after the election there is a completely new set of circumstances and the promises that have been made can easily be gone back on. 
The first thrust of the economic planning of the present Government is to win the trust of the trade unions in respect of wage claims. The Government says that wage claims have to be repulsed in order that we can get inflation down. That was the story prior to the election. We find on page 8 of the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister in December- and there was no equivocation about what he said- that the Prime Minister told the people of Australia: 'We will stand by wage indexation'. This statement was made prior to 13 December in the policy speech of the present Prime Minister. What was the position of wage indexation when he made that statement? Indexation had not been introduced by a series of measures. Indexation had been introduced by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on the basis of the views put forward by the parties. It was introduced on the basis of the consumer price index applied to all wage and salaries throughout Australia. It was not plateau 'd at the minimum wage; it was not plateau 'd at average weekly earnings. There was no plateau at all. It was applied to all wages and salaries. As I have said, the Prime Minister said that we would stand by indexation. 
What is the Government's policy now in May? The Government has had 3 other goes at indexation since December. Now we are to apply indexation to the minimum wage. So it will plateau at that point and there will be a flat rate above that. Who in Australia receives the minimum wage? Combined with the 2.5 per cent levy to Medibank that the Government is trying to apply- this is another question that I shall get to shortly- it is asking the people of Australia to take a cut in their real living standards. That is not what the Government asked the people to do in its so-called economic statement before 13 December but it is what it is asking them to do now. The trade unions have very good reason not to trust this Government. They have very good reason not to inspire confidence in what may be the outcome of the policies of this Government. The Government has now put forward its policies in its own ingenious way and has acted right outside of the guidelines of the Arbitration Commission. The Government is asking employees to accept an impost which was not placed upon them when the guidelines were set down by the Arbitration Commission. The trade unions are now asking employers to include in their industrial conditions the payment of the 2.5 per cent Medibank levy. This matter will have to be sorted out as an industrial relations exercise because of the actions of this Government. It is legitimate action which has been taken by many of the major trade unions. Some of the unions involved include the Vehicle Builders Union which is negotiating a new agreement and the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which is also negotiating several new agreements throughout Australia. 
This action has been taken because the wage and salary earners were not told before 13 December in the policy speech of the Prime Minister that the Medibank levy would be imposed. On page 1 8 of the policy speech the Prime Minister, again without any equivocation, said: 'We will abide by Medibank; Medibank will stand'. As I said in respect to indexation, what was the position of Medibank prior to 13 December? What was Medibank when the Prime Minister made his policy speech? At that time Medibank did not have a levy placed upon it. People did not have the opportunity to opt out of Medibank. Medibank was established for every citizen of this country including the 1.3 million people who had no health insurance cover prior to the introduction of the scheme. But nothing was said to the people of Australia about what the Government intended to do. The Government did not say: 'Let us wait until we see what happens after the elections; we are going to have another look at Medibank'. As I said earlier, when the votes were up for grabs, say anything at all. The Prime Minister in his policy speech said: 'Medibank will stand'. As I have said, the trade unions have a legitimate argument when they say: 'We are not going to accept 2.5 per cent of our salary being chopped off or cut oft our living standards'. As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has said on a number of occasions during debates over the past week, the taxation structure in the last Budget was such as to cover the Medibank charges being taken out of general revenue. So not only has the Government gone back on its word and the promises that it made leading up to the election in 1975 but also it has caused a grave breakdown in industrial relations. 
If one compares what the Prime Minister had to say about Medibank in his policy speech and the statement of the Treasurer on Medibank which is contained on page 43 of his speech, we see again the great contradiction about what the Liberal and National Country Parties would do in just 6 months of government. This again is something to inspire confidence! In the policy speech of the Pnme Minister again there is no equivocation about what he was going to do in the field of Aboriginal affairs. Let us have a look at what he said. He said: 
We will maintain present levels of assistance to Aboriginals, 
Just a quite simple statement. That is contained in the policy speech of the Liberal and National Country Parties when, as I say, the votes were up for grabs. What does the Treasurer say now, 6 months later? His statement is another great contradiction to inspire confidence in the Aboriginal people of this country. He said: 
Unfortunately, some of this expenditure does not appear to be achieving the results intended. 
So the Aborigines have to sustain a $32m cut in the appropriations for Aboriginal Affairs. The Prime Minister, when interviewed on  Monday Conference,  used as his argument the fact that there is some evidence somewhere unstipulated, that seven or eight houses built by the Aboriginal people cost $700,000 or $800,000. So the $32m cut takes place as a result of this very vague accusation. But no one looks at the Aboriginal housing projects. In my own State of South Australia alone, if we went to Coober Pedy, Oodnadatta, Ernabella or Davenport, we would find that the building of homes for Aboriginal people involving the training of Aboriginal people in the work- the work is carried out basically by Aboriginal people- compares very favourably in price with the prices being charged by local contractors doing private work. Again this is to be demolished as a result of the Government's intention to see that the deficit is cut. One of the great features of the Treasurer's statement is that we are going to cut expenditure by $2,600m. We now have half of that figure and we want Ronald Biggs to find the other half. Where are the other $ 1 ,300m in cuts to take place? At a time when we are asking Australians to have confidence in the economy, and co-operate with the Government, will someone on the other side of the Parliament please stand up and tell us where the cuts adding up to $ 1 ,300m are going to take place? 
-It has done more than create confusion. Look at the policy speech of the Prime Minister in relation to the question of urban and regional development. Again he promised that there would be no cutbacks in this area. 
If honourable members read the Treasurer's statement about what is going to happen to urban and regional development they will see that virtually the whole Department is wiped off the map. Four hundred million dollars is wiped off urban and regional development as is work being done on the environment which was initiated by the former Government. But according to the policy speech of the Prime Minister, nothing was going to be cut. Again, as he said on Monday Conference: 'You have to see it in the election context'. I do not know what seeing things in the election context means unless it means that you are able to tell lies, unless you are able to say to say to the people of Australia: 'Here are all the things we are going to do. We want you to vote on these, but as soon as the election is over at midnight on 13 December, forget about it, because then you have a different ball game. Then we are really going to stick the boots in'. This is the Government whose actions were dictated so much by the market research people in 1975 during the threat to block Supply and in the blocking of the Budget. They worked on the fact that a poll showed that the then Government was unpopular. A poll yesterday showed a sharp decline in the popularity of this Government. I should have thought that if the decline continues until the publication of the next  Bulletin,  the Prime Minister has no other option than to go to the Governor-General, his dear friend, submit bis commission and resign, because that is the way it is done. The statement of the Treasurer compared with the policy speech of the Prime Minister just 6 months ago does nothing else but destroy confidence. The sharp contrast between the 2 major statements of these Liberal and National Country Parties in just 6 months is beyond anybody 's understanding and /or trust. 
I just wonder why the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  did not read the Bible prior to the New South Wales election. That might have prevented him from making all those attacks upon the new member for Ashfield, because that was not very Christian either. Some of the accusations he made would not stand up to any sort of test at all. I do not rise tonight to talk about the honourable member for Evans, because he will be here for a short time only. We are treating him as a boarding house guest. I rise tonight to talk about - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect and other honourable members that the honourable member for Port Adelaide now has only  3lA  minutes in which to speak. 
The reason I rise tonight is to talk about what I consider to be one of the great fears of this nation in that a government could ever see itself exploiting the services and confidences of the Australian Public Service. The extent to which an Australian Government can do that, to the extent to which an Australian Government could ever stand over the Public Service or ever impair its neutrality, is quite frightening. We have in the Public Service a quarter of a million people serving what they consider to be the Government of Australia, serving in a very neutral fashion what they consider to be the people who are elected to govern this country. One wonders what would occur whenever that neutrality is broken, whenever those people are intimidated to such an extent that they believe that they have become the servants of one political party. I give an instance of how this could occur. If those of us who serve in the Opposition were to make a telephone call to a senior public servant, of course, we believe, the senior public servant, in carrying out his task, would record the conversation. If that conversation, having been recorded and transmitted to the Minister, found its way to the Bench of either of the Houses of Parliament- the House of Representatives or the Senate- that would be one of the most violent disruptions of relationship between parliamentarian and public servant that this country has ever witnessed. 
-There has never been one instance where the Labor Government has ever prevented the relationship between government and public servant in the way that I have just mentioned. I consider that that would be unforgivable, because no longer could any parliamentarian, be he on this side of the House or on the back bench of the other side of the House, ever talk to a public servant without expecting that particular conversation to be tabled in the National Parliament of Australia. If this illustration were ever to prove to be correct, it is not the Public Service that should be condemned, it is the people in power who exploit such a service. The only people who would do so are those people who would perhaps say things like the Prime Minister said today. The Prime Minister of Australia today has said that during the election campaign the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  stole papers from the Treasury. He then apologised for making that allegation. A person like that might exploit such a service. I think that anybody who does what has been used in the illustration is entitled to be condemned not only by all members of both sides of the Parliament but by every citizen in this country, because that person has set out to destroy a relationship that has been built up since Federation. In such a case, no longer is the Public Service there to serve the nation of Australia, it is there to serve the wants of an individual. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Has his attention been drawn to the anomaly which exists whereby companies that hire out plant and equipment have been ruled ineligible for the 40 per cent investment allowance? As this places these companies at a grave disadvantage in business, will he give this matter his reconsideration? 
-The point which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was making and which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  completely ignored is that the Government is placed in the position where it no longer has to seek leave to be represented but all other parties must seek leave to be represented. Why can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  or the honourable member for Denison if he is advising the Minister, not tell us why the Government should be placed in this position. The Minister has not answered as to why that should be the case. In our opinion it is unnecessary. Those of us involved in industrial relations believe that keeping legalisms out of industrial relations, like keeping the Government out of industrial relations, may help the situation and not hinder it. So we would like to know why the Government should be put in a position over and above that of all other parties to any hearing. 
It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  one of the leading spokesmen in the Liberal Party, say that the Government's commitment to wage indexation is only temporary and that it has another scheme in mind. It was despite the efforts of the LiberalCountry Party Government between 1949 and 1972 that certain movements took place in the wage structure. It was not because of the existence of that Government. Another thing disturbs me besides the statement by the honourable member that the commitment to wage indexation is only temporary. What policy will the Liberal and National Country Parties have on wage indexation next month? As has been pointed out in this Parliament on a number of occasions, before 1 3 December last it was full indexation, then it became indexation on average weekly earnings, then indexation on the minimum wage. What the Government is doing now is asking people - 
-I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
In moving the adjournment of the debate I point out that I will be speaking on the validation of the proposed changes later in the week when the Bill comes before the House for debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I would like to refer to a couple of points made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The proposals now being put forward by the Government as part of its amendments were never discussed at Labor Party Caucus level. The matter to which the Minister referred was just a suggestion put forward in the Labor Party. Prior to the last election a Labor Party committee suggested that the then Government would entertain the idea of adding the annual rental value of a home to the taxable income of a home owner. This was not Labor Party policy, nor is the matter referred to by the Minister in this case. It is not Labor Party policy because what is envisaged in the amendments is impossible. The Government will not improve industrial relations by trying to act as Big Brother. The conservative political forces in Australia have come a long way in that they now recognise the existence of trade unions. But now the Government is trying to endeavour to see that it participates in all the negotiations that might go on between parties. 
It has been said time and time again inside and outside the House by those people who represent the various forces in the industrial movement, both employee and employer, that they will be able to settle differences far better without the intervention of government. What the Government is doing by the amendments, of course, is telling the parties that they are wasting their time if they happen to reach a conclusion in their negotiations which contravenes the thinking of the government. Having in mind the performance of this Government since 13 December, we do not know week by week what the Government is thinking. If one was to talk about the guidelines of indexation, for instance, we have seen the Government shuffle around on so many occasions in this field. How on earth could any employee organisation or employer organisation know what the Government's policy is to be in 3 months time when the next case happens to be on? 
What the Government is asking in my opinion is impossible and has been exposed time and time again. It has never been Labor Party policy. The matter raised by the Minister was a suggestion made to the industrial committee of the Labor Party. This suggestion was rejected unanimously and it never reached Caucus level. It is something that we find quite foreign to our thinking. We happen to be a lot closer to the area of industrial relations than honourable members on the other side of the House. From our experiences in industrial relations we are telling the Government that it will find its intervention not wanted by the parties of either side which play a role in industrial relations. The Government is going to try to intervene in the conclusions which have been reached between the parties on the way in which their industries ought to be run. We say to the Government: 'In 12 months' time, after you have been intervening in hundreds and hundreds of cases, you will be admitting to Australia that it just does not work'. 
-The amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  on behalf of the Government is obviously designed to be part of the Government's new package to reduce real wages so that in 12 months time average weekly earnings will buy 10 per cent or 15 per cent less in commodities than they will today. That is the theory the Government is putting forward for overcoming the inflation problem that we now have in Australia and that is the reason why it has been unable to reach any firm decision on the question of indexation since honourable members opposite were placed in office by the Governor-General. The Government is trying to have wage and salary earners carry all the burden of inflation. It puts forward the proposition that the lower the wages, the higher the employment. When the honourable member for Lilley was speaking I asked him to give us a case in point to show where people have said: 'We will reduce our wages.' Or is he suggesting that in Australia if we reduced wages tomorrow by 10 per cent all of a sudden 100 000 or 200 000 people would be placed back in employment? As my friend the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said, we should look at the Swedish experience where they have low unemployment and high wages, and at the experience in the underdeveloped countries where they have low wages and very high unemployment. 
The other feature of inflation which has taken place in most countries of the Western world over the last 3 or 4 years and on which the honourable member failed to pass any comment is the savings of wages that have been paid. It is still to be explained in most countries why at a time of high inflation people are saving so much of their earnings. This has been the Japanese ex- perience as well as the Australian experience, he Opposition will not accept the views that the honourable member put forward that we must be part of some conspiracy to go out and convince the wage and salary earners of this country that all of a sudden their real wages must be reduced. Undoubtedly that is the purpose of the amendment and of the Government's intervention in the last two indexation or consumer price index cases. Obviously the Government does not really know what it is doing except that it has been convinced, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, not by the industrial relations strategy that ought to be guiding it but by the strategy given to it by Treasury. 
Treasury says that the way to unlock the inflation rate in Australia- it was Treasury's theory previously that the acceptance of full indexation, not at a plateau rate, would lock in the inflation rate- is now to reduce real wages. That is what the Government is embarking upon and that is why it is saying that the wage and salary earners of Australia must carry the complete burden. If wages are lowered it does not mean there will be higher employment. People must go out and purchase with the wages that they are paid. People will not produce goods which they cannot sell. There is a double-edged problem with the sort of inflation rate and unemployment rate which we now have in Australia. We certainly will not be a part of that futile conspiracy which says that the wage and salary earners should carry all the burden. 
-The most disturbing feature about what the Government is saying, of course, is that it has a variety of views about wage indexation. Perhaps now that it has been partially successful in its submission to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission about the way in which wage indexation ought to operate, one might see wage claims on productivity coming before the parties in the months ahead. It will be another arena of negotiations, another arena of wage claims which will not be dealt with or which will not be overcome by what the Government sees as some partial success in having people above the average male adult wage, which has been indexed by the full 3 per cent, brought into line. These people have accepted what the trade unions now say, which is that those receiving between the adult male rate of $125 a week and average weekly earnings have taken a drop in their real wage. So there will be added to this indexation further productivity claims. In some instances they may even be called cost of living claims. 
So we are a little confused about what the Government is saying and about what it supports as indexation. We on this side of the Committee would like to know from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  what is meant by the Government's temporary support of indexation. We would like to know about the scheme which the Government has in mind to replace indexation. We would like the 
Minister to be honest with us in the Committee and say that the Government's whole economic policy is based upon convincing wage and salary earners that they must take a drop in their real wage. 
I am one of the people on this side of the House who would like to have spoken during the second reading debate. Unfortunately, that debate was cut short. There are a couple of points I should Uke to make as this fiasco reaches its conclusion. In relation to what the Government sees as a exercise in taming the unions, it is my view, having been a participant in union ballots conducted both by returning officers of the union and by the Australian Electoral Office, that what the Government has set out to do will not be achieved. The Government ought to look at the history of union ballots and learn a few lessons from it because the exercise we are going through at the moment is quite stupid. As to the suggestion that there should be scrutineers from the Electoral Office in the union office, such people could hardly be called scrutineers. Scrutineers are appointed on behalf of candidates. If the police were present to observe whether everything was being done correctly they would not be called scrutineers. 
Another point I should make is that I have never been a participant in a corrupt union ballot, which the honourable member for Mackellar has suggested would be the case if we do not support the views he puts forward. He himself is a party to an act which we can prove is the supporting of a corrupt ballot, that is, when he sits in the Liberal and Country Party rooms and puts up his hand in favour of a 20 per cent discrepancy between the value of the vote in the metropolitan area and the vote in a rural area. The honourable member for Mackellar supports a corrupt ballot. 
-When Government members talk about every union member having a vote, the position is quite ridiculous. The returns by the Electoral Office of the ballots which they conduct show a very minimal response to the ballots. Union officials such as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I- and most union officials who come into this Parliament sit on this side of the House- happen to know a few things about it. If this provision will mean greater activity in trade unions by more people, then we will welcome it. I suspect that even the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  could go and have a look at the ballots conducted by the Waterside Workers Federation or by the miners or the seamen. Who is going to challenge those ballots? The ballots of the most militant unions in this land are unchallenged; so what honourable members opposite talk about is a lot of nonsense. 
In conclusion, the other thing I want to say is that this is a great day for the Australian Parliament. I have been through the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Of all the promises made during the election campaign, this is the third promise the Government has kept. It has reinstated the superphosphate bounty and it has provided for the 40 per cent investment allowance. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What discussions have taken place between officials of his Department and officials of the Department of the Attorney-General of New South Wales regarding the powers of the registries of courts in New South Wales to withhold certificates that a  decree nisi of  divorce has become absolute. 
What powers do State Governments have to refuse such certificates to citizens making application for them. 
How many applications for such certificates were made during the period 1 January 1975 to 31 December 1975 in the State of New South Wales. 
How many of these applications were refused. 
AAESDA is very concerned about the demise of work available for its members. It could play an extremely important part in the role of the Board. It is in the interests of all members of the national Parliament to see that this legislation works successfully. It is, I believe, an improvisation on the legislation already in existence and the fact that some hundreds of companies were involved in successfully receiving assistance under the old Act augers well for the success of the new proposals. I reiterate that the Government should think seriously about its decision to cut expenditure in this area, as in the long term any cuts that take place in research eventually cost the community more than the saving which may show at book level. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to this Bill. The overseas investment insurance scheme has had a good deal of success since its introduction in part in 1965. It can be seen from looking at a list of the countries now involved in this scheme and in which we have investment, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation is playing an increasingly important role between our country and other developing countries. People would be surprised to learn that not only are underdeveloped countries involved but also some well developed countries now have money invested from this country and insurance cover under the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act. I seek leave to have a list of those countries incorporated in  Hansard 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the new investment allowance relate to both imported and Australian made goods. 
If so, what proportion does he expect to relate to imported goods. were circulated: 
Will the application of the allowance to imported goods result in a Government subsidy for the importation of labour saving devices, when the purpose is stated to be to create employment. 
What steps is he taking to ensure that the investment allowance results in expenditure on Australian made goods, with consequent results on Australian employment. 
Are any measures in force to ensure that local subsidiaries of overseas companies do not import capital equipment at rates inflated for the purpose of inter-company transfers, with consequent larger claims for an investment allowance. 
-I think it would be fair to say that on some issues of the tariff, both sides of this House have a similar approach. We differ on one fundamental aspect. We on the Opposition side of the House believe that there must be optimum use of Australia's resources; that the optimum use can best be achieved by defining the key industries which this country must have, by making adequate provision for the phasing out of industries which are not required- a phasing out which will not disrupt the social fabric. I can only repeat what I have said many times before. Whenever there is a tariff change there must be adequate structural adjustment assistance. On the other hand, the Government is revealed as lurching from crisis to crisis, adopting an  ad hoc  approach and not following any practical guidelines. I can sympathise with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for his task of trying to conform to the unqualified election campaign promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to implement the recommendations of every Industries Assistance Commission report. There must be regard for special issues not raised in the IAC reports, and the hard political decisions that must be taken in respect of various industries. Apart from the bipartisan approach to some issues of the tariff, there remains the question of the administration of the various pieces of Customs legislation, and it is to that question that I want to turn today. 
My concern is to restore to this House its rights, indeed its constitutional duty under section S3 of the Constitution, to initiate changes in the taxation laws. I have spoken before of the need for this House to debate tariff changes at the time that they have some relevance, not long after the event, when industry has adjusted to the new duties, when many overseas contracts have been signed, and when an amendment would simply disrupt business. I want to say a little more on this question when I refer to the report and the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System at the conclusion of what I say on the tariff. In the system of  Gazette  notices, tariff proposals not debated, and validation Bills, this House is putting itself in a position where it is helpless to amend anything that may have been done by officials. 
I turn to some genuine questions which I have in regard to the various proposals in this Bill. I have asked questions before, each time a tariff matter had arisen, and each time the Minister has thanked the House for an interesting debate, and ignored the questions that have been posed. But I intend to try again, and see whether the Minister can give some answers to questions which we in this House are entitled to ask and have answered.  His  attitude is on a par with his remarks on the Customs Amendment Bill. In the debate on that Bill I spelt out at some length the recommendations of the Bland Committee about the need for appeal against arbitrary decisions on the value for duty. After beginning to accuse the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and me of misleading the House, he backed away to suggest that there was a hint in our remarks that the Government had not given due consideration to the issue. Then he proposed, as recorded at page 2146 of  Hansard  to tell us that he understood- he used the word 'understood' at least twice- that there was an appeal, and that we should read the very Schedule in an Act to which we had been drawing his attention. 
Let me deal now with the proposals which are validated by this Bill. The first Proposal, No. 7 of 8 April, deals with the motor industry, a subject to which I shall return later. Associated with it is Proposal No. 9 of 29 April. That latter proposal deals with motor vehicles which are more than 30 years old. They are now to be admitted free of duty. It is true that, in the tariff, antiques are admitted free of duty, but to be classed as an antique they must be more than 100 years old. I realise that the importation of vintage motor vehicles, which cannot reach that age, pose no threat to Australian industry. The Proposal therefore demonstrates the fact that duties of customs are designed for protection and not for the raising of revenue, for if they were so designed to collect revenue, these vehicles would be the very last item admitted free of duty. What does concern me is that here is a decision made in a vacuum. It is no secret that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is an admirer of these vintage cars, and no doubt his influence played some part in dealing with the representations for their admission free of duty. He will no doubt benefit when next he imports such a vehicle. I am seeking the answer to why this principle cannot be extended to all second-hand goods which do not threaten Australian industries. The Proposal is an  ad hoc  decision, and I am looking to the 
Minister to explain the principles behind it, and the further action he contemplates for similar goods. We must not forget that this change is one announced through the Press on a day that the House was sitting, not first announced in the House. I had raised before, the question of why changes were made by tariff proposal when substantive legislation could equally well be used, when there was no element of speculation involved. 
Let me turn now to Proposal No. 8 of 29 April 1976. It adds further goods to the Schedule of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. That Agreement, according to the Minister's conservative colleagues in New Zealand, is on the verge of collapse. There are other goods being added to the Schedule by Proposal No. 12, but luce this Proposal, I cannot identify what the goods are. It seems to me that this House deserves more information when goods are added to the Schedule, not a mere brushing aside of them, as in Proposal No. 12, as administrative changes. 
The next proposal to be dealt with is No. 10 of 10 May 1976. It deals with the rate of duty on injection moulding machines. Those machines were subject to an inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority, who recommended temporary duties. As members may be aware, the temporary duties lapse 3 months after the Government receives the final report of the IAC on the goods in question. That final report is titled 'Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery', and is dated 30 December 1975. It was not until 29 April that it was tabled in the House, and then it was treated as a draft report; that is, no decisions would be taken on it until comments had been received. The period for comment has been extended because of the complex issues involved. What has happened? In a week when the Parliament was not sitting, it was necessary to introduce these new duties on injection moulding machines by a notice in the  Gazette,  followed by a proposal in this House. I have spoken before of the objections to the use of the  Gazette  to change duties; they were introduced with a promise to be used in an emergency only. Clearly there was an emergency here. The temporary duties were about to run out. What we nave not heard from the Government is what was in the report that took almost 4 months for it to be tabled and treated as a draft report. Certainly this was not an occasion when the  Gazette  notice should have been used, and I am still looking for the Minister to assure us that the procedure will be used only as it was intended to be used. 
In proposal No. 12 of 10 May, I have a question which the Minister may be able to answer. The 2 IAC reports involved recommend minimum rates of duty for some goods, subject to our international trade treaty obligations. If I understand the proposal correctly, the rate placed on those goods is 5 per cent from all sources. Is this merely a device to raise revenue, some sort of token level of protection for the sake of industry, or is there some margin of preference retained by a duty of 5 per cent against all comers? The same proposal contains what are said to be administrative changes. One of them provides for the duty free admission of goods under by-law when scientific goods are subject to an agreement between this nation and another nation. What I am putting to the Minister is that such matters are properly the subject for debate in this House, not matters to be tucked away in supporting documents which must be carefully monitored. If our international obligations give rise to changes in the law, we should know about them. If our laws are to be changed at the behest of an international organisation, it is for this House to fulfil its constitutional duty in relation to the imposition of taxation, not to follow blindly international practice, or, as in the case of the mysterious protocol on value for duty, possible future international practice. 
Proposal No. 12 of 27 May deals with sunglasses, optical frames, etc. The IAC report suggested that there would be no unemployment arising from its recommendations, although there might be a halt to planned expansion of Martin Wells Pty Ltd at St Marys in New South Wales. Members will be aware of what followed. The implementation of the report would have led to the dismissal ultimately of 400 workers, and we had deputations from both management and workers. At least the Government has accepted the fact that there will need to be a period of adjustment, and has phased the new recommended duties over a period of 3 years. Regretfully, it does nothing about the 400 workers, some of whom must be found other jobs as the industry phases out. 
I return to Proposal No. 7 of 8 April which deals with the motor industry. In all the fine talk of this Government, we have yet to hear a firm statement about the fate of the 4-cylinder engine plant at Lonsdale.  Senator Cotton  seems to be putting out more and more Press reports, all of which merely put off the issue until a later date. It is time for this Government to come clean. It is time we heard what arrangements have been made to ensure that the plant will go ahead. It is also far beyond time when we should hear what the Government is doing about the abolition of the non-reversion rule for components. The abolition of that rule is bringing a serious problem to a head. I know that a committee has been formed to discuss the motor industry. My impression is that the message has not yet been received. The crisis is here and now, and the establishment of yet another committee will not solve it. What is needed is a firm announcement that the non-reversion rule will be maintained, at least until the new industry panel can make further recommendations. What is needed also is an announcement on the 4-cylinder engine plant before this House rises. 
In the past, this House has neglected the opportunity to debate tariff measures. Those measures impinge on the whole structure of our industrial base and our skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled employment. I sincerely hope that members of the Parliament and observers of the parliamentary business will have noticed the vastly increased interest from this side of the House during the first session of this new Government in any alterations which take place in existing tariff. 
The other matter I wish to raise is the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I draw the attention of members of the House to the specific recommendation of the Committee on the way in which tariff alterations, tariff proposals or IAC recommendations and reports ought to be dealt with by this Parliament. I ask for leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  paragraph 133 of that report, so members will be able to read the views presented to the Committee by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I share his views, as do other members. We see a need for this Parliament to take a greater interest, in a more detailed way, in tariff issues. The mechanics of the Parliament lend themselves to our becoming vastly more knowledgeable on any alterations that are recommended either by the Government acting on an IAC report or on the IAC report itself. 
-The opposition is not opposed to the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Bill. I join with previous Labor spokesmen responsible for this area over the years in giving support to the concept inherent in the BUI. There are just a couple of points I would like to make. Firstly, the Government's cutting of funds during the transitional period from the general and selective grants to the commencement project grants will obviously mean a number of establishments missing out on funding that they may have validly expected to receive. I happen to be one of those people who believe- in spite of the arguments put forward by the Government that all public sector expenditure must be trimmed in order to bring down the rate of inflation- that cuts in money going into research projects ultimately mean greater expenditure at the end of the line. This, I am sure, will occur in industry as affected by this Bill, as it will similarly mean greater expenditure in health as a result of cuts in health research. 
I see the validity of the restrictions placed on those eligible for future commencement grants and I see no need for making firms which have previously received amounts over $125,000 being eligible for another grant in this area. The system of project grants, will lend itself to perhaps the greatest collaboration between government and private enterprise that one can witness. In view of the very strong case that has been made repeatedly, not the least by an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development survey, that we should not rely solely on overseas research in technology, it is obvious that our isolation demands a firm and continuing commitment to local research and development. It may mean, and I hope it does, greater expertise in the Department of Industry and Commerce in reviewing applications for project grants. 
I support the flexibility given to the Minister in the Bill to waive the normal project limit. 
In the creation of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board, I think a very strong case can be made out for a member of that 
Board being selected from the trade union movement- in this case, possibly a member of the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draftsman of Australia. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter sent to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  on 27 February from  Mr Ted  Benjamin, Federal Secretary of AAESDA 
-I refer to the first report of the Corporation because I want to make reference to the investment side of the Corporation's work. The first report of the Corporation dated 30 June 1975 states at page 21: 
The Corporation now insures 49 investments made by 36 firms in 1 7 countries. Of these, 9 investments were insured in the period under review. At 30 June 1975 the aggregate contingent liability stood at $63,832,249. Premium income received  since  the inception of the scheme in 1 966 amounted to $701,086 and, while no claims have yet been paid, 2 investments in the Khmer Republic may result in claims payments in the next financial year. 
There have been, as shown by that report, very few problems associated with the operation of the Act when one considers the total insurance cover given. The only 2 recent problems concerned the change of power in both Chile and Cambodia. I support the intent of the Bill in allowing the Corporation to insure its own commercial account without that policy being approved by the Minister. This is very much in keeping with the sentiments that were expressed by the  Deputy  Prime Minister at the time,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, in 1974 when he introduced the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Bill. He stated: 
As with EPIC, the Government has been concerned to provide maximum autonomy for the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation consistent with the necessary measure of Government control over broad policy. 
It is obvious that the Bill now before us concerning the Corporation will need continuing monitoring in relation to the role that it plays, and obviously amendments to the operations such as we have before us today will be coming before the Parliament continually until we have the perfect system. When one considers that 80 per cent of our total liability of investment insurance is in respect of the Association of South East Asian Nations countries, it reflects the importance of this instrument in the building of relationships between ourselves and our neighbours. 
I hope to see in the future a steady growth, particularly in the investment area, for it is extremely important for us to play a role in seeing that the under-developed countries reach thenown economic independence. I cannot think, of any greater assistance we can offer to the countries involved than help of this kind with projects that can be undertaken with the benefit of experience gained in our well advanced technological industries. It has been a successful project, as I have said, and honourable members on both sides of the House can be well pleased with its operation. It adds a great deal of confidence to decisions that sometimes have to be made by some of our major industries and runs parallel with similar legislation which operates in other advanced countries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What proportion of the $3,439,000 funds allocated to the Jindalee radar project is for work to be performed by private Australian industrial organisations. 
) Has any of the high technology research work for this project been performed by private Australian industrial organisations: if not, why not. 
If some of the research work for this project has been performed by private Australian industrial organisations, what was the (a) nature and (b) value of the work performed. 
asked the Minister ("or Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
I ) Has the National Telecommunications Planning Unit made any recommendation that 1 ele'c/,m Australia should market PABX switching units. 
Has it made a recommendation that larger switching equipment should be confined to 2 private manufacturers. 
If so, how will these 2 manufacturers be selected, and why has this decision been taken in advance of the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on The Electrical and Electronic Industry, Sub-industries B and D. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports by the  Chairman  of the Australian Telecommunications Development Association that Australia has missed out on orders totalling $830m for telecommunications equipment in Indonesia because of the attitude of the Federal Government. 
Does the Australian Government maintain an Australian Telecommunications Mission in Indonesia to assist in the planning of Indonesian telecommunications. 
Is it a fact that a company cannot tender for telecommunications equipment in Indonesia unless finance is guaranteed. 
Is it also a fact that finance through Australian Government channels will not be guaranteed until a firm and approved contract has been produced. 
If these are facts will he investigate the situation and ensure that this valuable market for our exports is not lost 
I draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the policy of his Party, as printed, which states: 'We regard industry, particularly shipbuilding, as the fourth arm of defence'. I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Department of Defence agree with his decision to close the shipyards of Australia? Does he agree that Australia is better defended by losing the capability to build and repair ships or by having 10 000 additional people, skilled and unskilled, on the unemployed list? 
-by leave-This is one of the areas that present some problem to the machinery of Parliament in allowing the Opposition to make a very quick and brief reply to any tariff proposals that come before the House. I appreciate the arrangements made with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for myself and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  to make very short statements on a couple of the proposals before us. In the short time available to me I want to touch on the question of the preferences to the lesser developed countries. 
The changes now before the Parliament operated from 1 July last. They were made by administrative decision and with a minimum of consultation with industry. I want to draw the attention of the Parliament to the words of  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, before the last election when he said: 
A Liberal and National Country Party Government will not reduce or allow to lapse tariffs or other assistance to manufacturing industry . . . without prior report by the LAC to the Government and consultations with the industry concerned. 
The Labor Party does not quarrel with the proposition that we should give preference to developing countries. We must foster our trade. We must face up to our responsibilities as a great trading nation. We must assist countries less fortunate than ourselves. But we must also take steps to ensure that this special preference lasts only so long as they are not competitive on our market. Thereafter they should be treated in the same way as all other goods, falling to the appropriate rates of the tariff. We must ensure that there is frequent review of the market penetration by developing countries for whilst we are prepared to assist and even to accept structural adjustment in our own economy we must not destroy our own vital industries in the process. 
All these issues are properly matters on which the Industries Assistance Commission should report. All of them are issues on which the views of the industries and the unions alike should be sought. They are not issues to be decided by a few officials. They are not issues to be left by the Minister to the obscure schedules at the back of the tariff proposals. They are issues which we in this Parliament must debate. They are changes which are fundamental to our economy. For the benefit of honourable members I should like to give some illustration of what is occurring with the preferences that we now give to less developed countries. Again, let me reiterate that the Labor Party sees as a singularly important role for Australia, assistance towards the economic independence of the countries to the north of us. But we ought to also look at some of the things that are occurring in these countries such as the relationship between what we determine are less developed countries and perhaps the multi-national companies that are operating in those countries. 
I want to relate to the House some of the commodities that are coming into Australia and indicate from where they are coming under these preferences. Fluorescent ballast is imported from India. High voltage transformers are imported from most Asian countries. Calculators, commutators and small air compressors are other items that are imported. A Taiwan catalogue, referring to these small air compressors, states: 
Fee Chang's progressive management has provided its skilled personnel with a semi-automated foundry, tape controlled and high precision machinery equipment and computer controlled process and information systems for the manufacture of a complete line of air compressors. 
I do not know whether we can give the same description of our own industry here in Australia but that is the description given to that industry in what we term a less developed country. High speed twist drills are now imported from Asian countries. Power and hand hacksaw blades are now imported from Brazil. There is a list of raw materials which are now coming in from overseas because of our tariff preferences. In some cases we find- as we do with Brazil- that the industry producing some of the items we are importing has been set up by one of the multinational companies. This relates particularly to machinery from Brazil. Brazil has captured the last 2 tenders for bottle-washing machinery in this country. The firm concerned in Brazil is a multi-national German company. 
What I am saying to the Government and to industry is that we should have a closer look at the way we give preference to these so-called lesser developed countries to see who is operating the companies in those nations and to see what impact and effect it is having on the employment of our industries and those industries which we may think are essential to our own industrial capacity in the future. I draw the attention of the Minister to these matters and ask that the Government examine them. I suggest that we have a fuller debate later in the session on these questions. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. During the skirmish that took place prior to the division, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  made an accusation that I was joining in an exercise to restrict free speech. I want to make it perfectly clear that I believe in free speech and I do not really care what people in Australia say about the Governor-General. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to comments by  Sir Philip  Baxter on the Television program  Face the Nation  on Channel 9 on Sunday, 28 March 1976 to the effect that threats were made to him by senior Japanese officials that, if Australian uranium was not provided on reasonable terms to Japan, Japan would come and take Australian uranium. 
Did  Sir Philip  Baxter report these threats to the Minister responsible for the Atomic Energy Commission at that time. 
If so, what protests were made by the Australian Government to the Japanese Government about these threats. 
If not, what steps has the Minister taken to obtain details of these threats from  Sir Philip  Baxter so that appropriate action might be taken. 
-The first significant feature about this debate, which is on a topic that is no less than a national scandal, is that it is not supported by one member of the Liberal Party or one member of the National Country Party in this House. They are all prepared to support the decision to close Australia's shipyards. Their thinking is not in line with that of the Premiers of New South Wales or South Australia, or the thinking of their counterparts in those States,  Sir Eric  Willis and  Dr Tonkin.  Both those people, leaders of their respective parties in New South Wales and South Australia, support the propositions which we put forward today and which have been put forward by the Premiers of New South Wales and South Australia. This is a national scandal not only because the Government will close our shipyards but also because of the way in which it has been done. The Government is asking the Industries Assistance Commission to camouflage its actions. The LAC ought to be warned about the way in which it is being used by this Government to reinforce the decision which has been taken to close Australia's shipyards. During this debate, speakers from this side of the House will deal with all the matters relating to Newcastle and Whyalla which affect the people of this country and the nation. 
The Government has only one issue upon which to hang its hat. It is continually crying out on television and radio and in this House that it is carrying out the policies of the former Labor Government. On no other issue which has been discussed since 13 December last year has this Government said that it is following the policies of the former Labor Government. Quite the opposite. It is not following those policies. It is setting out to destroy them. It seems intent on persuading people in the Australian community to support its policies because both political parties are of the one opinion. That is not true. There has never been a decision by any section of the Labor movement, political or industrial, to close Australian shipyards. There was a decision to rationalise the industry, and that has been done. But there was never a decision of this nature by any section of the Labor movement. Members of the Liberal and National Country Parties ought to remember their boast that they have controlled government in this chamber for two-thirds of the time since federation. We now reach a situation in 1976, after a Liberal-Country Party Administration for two-thirds of the time since federation, in which a major industry, one of national importance, is to close. 
Shipbuilding should not be looked upon as just another section, another unit of manufacturing industry. Shipbuilding ought to have different criteria applied to it. Before this decision was taken on 12 August there was unity in the Parliament about the existence of the shipyards. Both major political parties agreed that we had to have shipbuilding in the country. I will quote the Government's own policy because its members are too lazy to read it. The printed version of the policy states: 
We recognise industry, in particular our shipbuilding . . . , as a fourth arm of defence ... Of equal importance is our shipbuilding industry which has been allowed to fall into disuse by the Labor Government . . . Our high priority for these areas will lead us to ensure the continuing viability of our shipbuilding and ship repair industries. 
What a joke! The decision on 12 August meant nothing less than to close the yards. Now it is claimed that it is too expensive to build ships in our country. Again the Government refuses to recognise what other countries do about their shipbuilding yards. It may interest some members on the opposite side to know that almost 30 maritime countries subsidise their shipbuilding in different ways. Many of them have yards which were built long after our yards were built. They have far greater efficiency of technology available to them, yet they still have to be subsidised by their governments. In 1973, Japan spent $500m, Spain spent $60m, Sweden spent $85m, Germany spent $100m, Norway spent $160m, the United Kingdom spent $50m and France spent between $400m and $500m to maintain their shipbuilding industries. Let us consider what people overseas are saying about the shipbuilding industry: 
A recent Norwegian estimate quotes a world shipyard over capacity of 24 per cent. Japan has been particularly hard hit by the collapse of the world tanker market. To keep its large shipyards employed it has been offering extremely low prices for vessels of all sizes. This has posed a serious threat to European builders. The Europeans are seeking massive government support to see them through the crisis. Recent examples of responses are those of the Finnish, Netherlands, Norwegian and Swedish governments which have resorted to a series of emergency measures including the purchase of S 1 per cent ownership of some shipyards. 
The fear is that because of very low Japanese and Korean prices, European shipbuilders will be forced out of business,  leaving  a virtual Japanese and Korean monopoly. 
That is what this Government is doing. It is acquiescing in 2 countries having a complete monopoly in this vitally important industry. I will say something about the question of defence a little later. I seek leave to nave incorporated in  Hansard  an article from the London  Times  on the question of price cutting on shipbuilding which is going on around the world, a table showing the method of government assistance to yards in other countries and an article describing such assistance. 
I now turn to the question of the work force. I mentioned the rationalisation of the yards. In the last few years 3 shipyards have closed- Adelaide Ship Construction, Evans Deakin and Co. Pty Ltd and Walkers Ltd. Members opposite say that closure of the yards is the complete responsibility of the work force. This accusation ignores the technology, the investment and the uncertainty with which business has lived with governments over a long period as to what orders each of the yards will receive. It is not just a question of the labour force or the problem of industrial relations in the yards. This description of the skills employed in the shipbuilding industry in Australia was given by the working party set up by the Department of Transport in 1974: 
Although the labour content in the industry is relatively small when viewed against the total Australian work force, the industry's significance as an employer of labour is considerable in that: 
It is of special importance in some regions and areas where alternate job opportunities are not readily available. 
It introduces to industry generally a continuing supply of well-trained and highly skilled tradesmen and other workers. 
It has over a long period of time become a repository of highly developed skills and expertise of a nature that is unique to the industry. Any diminution of this expertise would be extremely difficult to recover. 
It provides ideal training opportunities for all levels of skilled workers in an activity which is characterised by its sophistication in terms of complex equipment and technological development. 
That is a description of the work force which this Government is throwing out onto the street. It is a description of the people. We heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say he was concerned about the unemployed. For every person who is employed directly in the manufacture of ships in our shipyards there are 3 people employed outside the yards. If the Government puts off 6000 people in the shipyards it is putting off 18 000 additional people employed in industries outside the yards. 
Let us look at the question of defence. A minute ago in this chamber we heard from a very angry, remonstrative Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  He was very upset about some of the things that had been said. Let us look at what the Tariff Board said about the importance of shipbuilding to defence. How the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  can sit idly by in Cabinet and allow a decision to be taken to destroy this nationally important industry bewilders me. The Tariff Board report on Australian shipbuilding in 1971 states: ... in a future national emergency which threatened to be of limited duration, the main activity of the Australian shipbuilding industry would be the repair and refitting of Australian and allied naval and merchant ships and the production of small ships such as minesweepers, patrol vessels and landing barges. Although some production of major vessels might be commenced in such an emergency, the nature and scale of any construction undertaken would depend significantly on an assessment of the conflict becoming protracted. 
The evidence from the Department of Defence indicated that the Government's essential defence requirements are for efficient and strategically placed dry docking and other repair facilities, and for yards capable of the fast production of a number of relatively small ships. 
The Department stated that while capacity to build major ships could not be effectively used in an emergency of limited duration, this capacity would become important in an extended conflict. Also in a shorter conflict, the techniques of such an industry would be readily adaptable to major ship repair work. 
The maintenance of a viable commercial shipbuilding industry was thus an important factor in Australian defence preparedness. 
This is one of the issues the Government completely ignores. Let us look at what the Minister for Defence says. I want to revive the argument that just took place in this chamber. The Minister was asked by Brian Toohey of the  Australian Financial Review: 

 Mr Killen, do you think the Soviet military build-up, as you see it, poses a military threat to Australia? 
The Minister replied: 
Well, frankly I do. 
He is our Minister for Defence. Who is running the defence of this country? It is not the shadow Minister or those who sit on the Opposition side of the House. If honourable members opposite believe in all the hullabaloo about the Russians in the Indian Ocean, their view does not accord with the views the Government is putting forward about our national shipbuilding industry. Look at the amount of money we may have used to subsidise our shipbuilding industry. The Tariff Board report of 1974-75 shows that $31m was poured into our shipbuilding. Under this year's Budget, $2, 100m is to be spent on defence. If it is Liberal Party policy that the shipyards are a fourth arm of our defence, could that $31m not be easily put aside as part of our defence expenditure? Should the money not be invested in the shipyards to bring them up to date so they can compete with the yards overseas? With the investment we are to make in our defence, that obviously could be done. 
An extraordinary feature is that the Minister for Defence 2 days before the Government decided to close our national shipyards, issued a Press release stating that the Government was calling tenders for a 6000 ton naval ship. He wants it to be built in our shipyards. In 18 months time when it is ready to be built, according to the Government's present plans our shipyards will be closed. The ship will not be built in Australia, and the Government knows it. Today is not Black Friday; it is Black Wednesday. The Minister signed a document so that the subsidised Japanese workers would get work over and above the work that ought to be available to the workers in the shipyards at Whyalla and Newcastle. The workers in the Japanese shipyards receive just as much subsidy from their government and just as much collaboration between private enterprise and government as we would expect for our shipyards. Orders for 4 ships placed overseas could have kept our yards alive while further investigation went on into improving the efficiency of our yards. This consideration has been completely ignored. The ship that was the subject of the Minister's Press release 2 days before the announcement to close down our shipyards will never be built in an Australian yard. I have news for the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This is one fight that the people of Australia will win, because the only people who do not agree that we should have commercial, viable, efficient shipyards of our own are the mob who sit opposite. The Liberal Party is the only group - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member might moderate his language. 
I am referring to the group that poses as a government. The Liberal Party in the States support what we are saying. This is a fight we will win. We will not have 20 000 semiskilled workers thrown into unemployment adding to the 350 000 people who are already unemployed. On the question of industrial relations, we have heard honourable members opposite- the reactionaries when they were in Opposition, the reactionaries when they are in government- say that we could never have amalgamation of unions. They say that big unions would be too strong and that governments would not be able to handle them. They fought against amalgamation of unions. What is one of the success stories of overseas shipyards? In Sweden, Germany and Japan there is one union for the shipbuilding industry. When the Australian Labor Party put forward the proposal in this Parliament that there ought to be industry unions in such industries as the shipbuilding industry, the Liberal Party fought against amalgamation of unions. The problem is largely the fault of the Government. 
I turn to the question of trade. Australia has 12 000 miles of coastline. In 1980 we will have an import-export trade of $12.1 billion. We are one of the largest trading nations in the world. Yet the Government has decided that we should not have the capacity or the skills to be able to build ships in Australia. This is a right we intend to win. 
-Like my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  I was a little amazed at the way in which the Government brought about this debate. Firstly, I understand it was intended that this matter would be debated later, after the Opposition had been given the opportunity to look at the statement. Then we had to try to understand why the Government wanted to start this week of sittings with another attack on the trade union movement. It should be of interest to all Australians to know that the state of the House at the moment is 91 members of the Liberal and National Country Parties and 36 members of the Labor Party and that not one of the 91 members sitting opposite are or have been members of a trade union. We can therefore expect from them a savage case of union bashing whenever these debates come before the House. The second astounding feature of this debate is that the Opposition thought it was going to be a serious debate and expected that, as well as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  other senior members of the Government would put forward their views and let Australians know about the Government's attitude to future wage cases. But the next 2 speakers for the Government, who held quite senior positions when they were in Opposition, are people who have been rejected by the Government. Their expertise must have been rejected by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because when he won office those 2 speakers were sent to the back benches. How seriously should the Opposition regard this union bashing exercise that is taking place today? 
Let us have another look at the way in which the Government intends to try to reach agreement with the wage and salary earners of this country. On the Friday after the House rose following the last week of sitting- that is 10 days ago- an incredible offer was made following a decision reached in a car going from Parliament House to the local Canberra airport. A decision was made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and an incredible offer was made to the shipyard workers of Australia. It was not a decision to maintain the shipbuilding industry, not a decision even to give them the orders which are now being placed overseas, but a decision which stated: 'You can continue to work for a short period if you all refuse to take what we expect to be the normal wage increase of every Australian worker for the next year, a 12 per cent wage increase which might be handed down through wage indexation. ' Not only have there been a series of decisions since 13 December of last year which have confused the wage and salary earners of this country, but also new statements have been made continually by the Government in relation to its own stand. 
No one knows, certainly no one in this House- if they do know they have not expressed it- certainly not the Commission and certainly not the Australian Council of Trade Unions, what the Government is going to say at the next wage hearing. On every occasion on which there has been a wage hearing since the Fraser Government came to office it has made a different submission. At least there is a little honesty in this statement. On reading through it one finds the Government drawing the line between its policies and what it expects the people of Australia to accept. What the Government is asking them to accept is a real reduction in the living standards of every wage and salary earner in this country. That is what the Government is asking for, and that is what makes this statement a little more significant than some of the statements which have been made since last December. I suspect that the most significant feature of this Government's policy is the way in which it hoodwinked the electorate prior to 13 December. In the policy statement made prior to the time when the people had to vote on 13 December there was no equivocation in what the Prime Minister said: 
The Government will support the wage indexation agreement. 
There was absolutely no equivocation at all. On behalf of the 91 members who now sit opposite, the Prime Minister told the people of Australia that his Government would abide by indexation. As the Opposition has pointed out on a number of occasions in this House, prior to 13 December last year indexation meant full indexation. It was not indexation restricted to the minimum wage or subject to a wage plateau. It was not confined to the average male rate in the metal trades or to average weekly earnings generally. It was not held to a ceiling of $200 a week. The promise that the Prime Minister made on behalf of all honourable members opposite was for full indexation as it had operated previously. I want to cite the ways in which this Government is now perhaps trying to manipulate the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Honourable members opposite ought to look at placitum (xxxv) of section 5 1 of the Constitution, which reads: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good Government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
Conciliation and Arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State: 
If the Government says that it is its right to go before the Commission and convince the Commission that it must bring about certain results in order to suit the economic aims- which are questionableof the Government, then we say that the Government is putting forward a policy which is totally unacceptable to the majority of Australians. Let us look further at this statement which was delivered by the Minister just a short time ago and which we are told we are to debate forthwith. What do we find is happening? As I have said, the Government has put forward a series of statements since 13 December in relation to where it stands on indexation. In the opening paragraph of the statement the Minister makes some suggestion on behalf of the Government, as to who has destroyed indexation. You can work with the people only when there is complete trust. When the present Government challenged us in November and December of last year to prove that we had better industrial relations with the trade unions as a result of our working with them, we pointed out the great difficulties that existed in that area. But the then Opposition said that if elected to government it would overcome those difficulties. Who is destroying indexation? The Government is doing it because it has destroyed any trust that may have been built up with the trade union movement. An overwhelming majority of people voted for the Government on 13 December. It had an enormous amount of trust placed in it, but it is using its policies as breeding grounds for the division of the Australian people. It is hoping, as it did during the 1950s and the 1960s, to split the Australian community and to bring about some political gain for the Liberal and National Country Parties. Government supporters talk about what is done outside the guidelines. It should be of interest to honourable members opposite to know that wage relativities between the various sections of working people in this country were always maintained by means of over-award payments; they were not maintained by award payments. Award payments were set as the minimum, not as the maximum. In a series of submissions to the various tribunals around Australia the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union has been able to maintain wage relativities with other sections of the community because inherent in its wage claims was a $30 overaward payment. That was the average payment to every fitter throughout Australia. If those people had been paid award rates they would have been getting paid less than that received by a tradesman's assistant. So this talk about guidelines and the policies of the Government of course is ridiculous. 
In the third paragraph of his statement the Minister talks about economic recovery and full employment. This comes a fortnight after the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  brought in a Budget which does absolutely nothing to put people back to work. The Government itself expects that the number of people unemployed in August of next year will be slightly higher than the number of people unemployed in August of this year. The Government is breaking the trust that has been built up and is breaking an agreement on wage relations by bringing down a Budget which deliberately sets out to see that 140 000 kids who leave school this year will find it almost impossible to find employment in the early months of 1977. The Government knows as well as we do that the number of people unemployed is going to be far higher in a year's time than it is today. This is a great policy, a great submission to put forward to the people, to build trust and to get some sort of agreement on wages. Then in paragraph 4 of the statement delivered by the Minister, the Government says that it is the unions which are keeping people out of work. It may also interest honourable members opposite to know that the submission made to the Government one month ago by the Metal Industries Association gave figures which demonstrated quite clearly that as a result of the Government's chopping back its spending in all areas without any sort of scrutiny at all 4000 people who had been working on government contracts in private enterprise in the metal trades industry had lost their jobs. Trade unions do not employ people; they do not hire and fire. Instead of making accusations against the trade unions, the Government ought to look at the impact of its own policies, because the Metal Industries Association can give one clear illustration of how 4000 people have been lost from that sector of employment. 
As I said earlier, the people are confused and they reject this Government's policy on wages because there have been so many Government policies. On every occasion that the Commission has met the Government has put forward a new proposal. Let us look at the proposition that an increase in wages at the present time would do a great deal of harm. In paragraph 10 of his statement the Minister says that in the present circumstances a one per cent increase in wages can be expected to add $10Om each quarter to the total wage and salary bill. But what would the wage and salary earners get if they were to accept all the proposals put forward by this Government? We find that in the Budget the Government has attacked the agencies which were set up by the Labor Administration to protect the consumer. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission are 2 authorities that had their budgets slashed, and they will not be nearly as effective in their respective fields of controlling prices and protecting the consumer as they have been previously. So I say to the wage and salary earners of Australia that if they accept what the Government says on wages it will mean not just taking a reduction in real wages, in the real standard of living over the next 12 months; the consumer will receive less protection against those people from whom he must buy consumer goods. So again it is useless for this Government to expect the people of Australia to accept all the things it wants them to accept. 
I do not think we should be restricted to making comments on the document which has been just put forward by the Minister as an attempt to discredit the trade union movement in the eyes of the Australian electorate. There is a battle going on in relation to wages. There can be no doubt in the  minds  of  most  people who are analysing the situation that the people of Australia will not accept a lowering of their living standards. The Government is very fond of saying: 'This is what we would have done.' It refuses to recognise the fact of life that it is in government; it is supposedly in charge of the country; it is supposedly in government to carry out the promises it made in November and December of last year about how to cure all the economic ills which it says were thrust upon Australia by the Labor Administration. Far from the Government effecting any of the cures which we were promised, we find that the economy is in a far worse state than it was on 1 1 November when this Government was installed by the Governor-General. So we have got to look at some of the promises that were made by the Government. I have before me one of the most interesting documents that Australia has ever been given. It is the policy speech made by the present Prime Minister before the last election. 1 shall quote a few things from it which prove that the Prime Minister was misleading the Australian people. He said on page 7 of the document. 
We will work positively in co-operation with trade unionists. 
Never a day passes in this Parliament without someone from the Opposition side, usually one of the Ministers, trying to condemn in general terms the trade union movement. When honourable members opposite do that they are condemning the vast majority of wage and salary earners in this country. There is no attempt from honourable members on this side of the House to condemn employer organisations in general terms and in an off-hand manner; there is no attempt to say that everything they do is wrong, that we should not listen to them, that we should not try to co-operate with them, that we should not try to look at the influences that operate in order to bring about a healthy economy. But every day we have to put up with this routine in the national Parliament of Liberal and National Country Party spokesmen condemning the trade unions. On page 8 of this now famous document the Prime Minister said: 
The Government will support wage indexation. 
The document goes on and on and on. Yesterday the Prime Minister made a great speech about tariffs and said that industries could not be protected forever with high tariff barriers. This is what he said in December; 
We will give Australian industry the protection it needs. We would sooner have jobs than dogma. 
The Prime Minister is chasing industry out of Australia, not the trade unions. It is the confusion that exists in the minds of business people, rendering them incapable of making decisions about future investment in their own areas that they are being chased out of this country, and they are taking with them the jobs of 300 000 or 400 000 people who are now unemployed. It is not the trade unions that should be condemned. It is this Government because it has taken an enormous gamble and it has not worked. 
It was not my intention to enter this debate, and I shall not delay the House for very long, but I could not help being provoked by some of the comments made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has taken on the role of expert in almost every field that comes up for discussion in this House. He makes the comment that although perhaps the Australian Broadcasting Commission television has very good presentation the people who reach such a fine level in their presentation are so warped in their attitudes in the type of program that they present that they should not be allowed to do it. Licence fees, which are under discussion, are of very little relevance to the production and presentation of television in Australia. I suspect that since 1956 we have been subjected by commercial television stations to the worst television viewing in the world. The competition provided by the ABC to the type of programs that have been presented to us by commercial television is the only thing that has kept us a little sane. 
I am astounded when someone talks about being offended by watching Graeme Blundell running nude down the street in Sydney in a television program. Such people sat silent for so many years in this House without condemning many of the imported programs which perhaps did twist the minds of many of the young people who were forced to watch them on other television stations. A far more severe test should have been put on commercial television stations in regard to their standards of production. A far more severe test should have been put on those commercial television stations when their licences were renewed. We allowed in this country a greater monopoly over the television stations than would have been allowed in any other country. We allowed our television stations to fall into the hands of the monopolies which already owned the newspapers and the radio stations. 
I do not think our record on television is something of which we can be very proud but I do think that each of us ought to think about the field in which we play a part. Obviously we have the right to pass comment on those matters which affect the Australian community. But we are acting like those people outside the House who think they know a lot more about the Parliament than those of us who serve in it when we play the role adopted by the honourable member for Kennedy and say that everything in the ABC must be crook. I do not complain about ABC radio on the occasions when I listen to it while travelling through the country areas. It seems to me that its programming fits the pattern of country areas. It informs the people about what is happening in that particular region and that seems to me to be a legitimate exercise. Nevertheless, it may be, or it may turn out to be, far more in favour of the political tones that would be expressed by the honourable member for 
Kennedy than by me, but I tolerate it. However, it seems to me that to interfere with the creative talents of a lot of Australians is a step in the wrong direction and perhaps a suppression of the creative ability of the Australian people. Perhaps it may lead in turn to what happened immediately after the war in the 1950s and 1960s when a great deal of our Australian talent found its way overseas. 
Thanks to the Whitlam Labor Government we have seen the creative arts revitalised. We should continue to encourage and support them financially. We should not set ourselves up on a pedestal and think the whole world has crumbled because we do not happen to like one specific television program. I cannot recall hearing in the two-and-a-half years that I have been in the Parliament any honourable member opposite raise the matter of the programs that have been shown on the commercial television stations. I cannot recall the honourable member for Kennedy taking time out either in general debate or in the adjournment debate to criticise or to put forward his views about the programs which he mentioned. I have never watched them; I have no intention of watching them. That is my own judgment. I do not intend to try to tell the viewing public and the creative people of Australia that I know more than they do about what they should be creating or what the viewers should be watching. They make their own judgments. The situation in relation to the people who watch television or listen to radio has changed over the years. I think a far greater test ought to be applied to the owners of television stations, not the creative people who make the programs which are shown by those stations. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of the great need in Australia for a comprehensive structural change program? Does he realise that retraining and relocation programs are required urgently in areas suffering most as a result of the present economic recession? Finally, will he indicate how soon these programs can be put into operation to avoid hardship on employees and to minimise the business problems of employers and investors? 
-I too wish to associate myself with the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and in the fashion described by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I do so enthusiastically because with the passing of Mao it has been a very sad year for China. The Chinese people have lost not only their  Chairman  and their Premier Chou En-lai, but also their great military leader, Chu Teh. With the passing of those 3 men in one year we can look at the remarkable history of China since the formation of the Communist Party in 1921. The Chinese Communist Party was almost wiped out in the Long March of 1934-36 but these men won sufficient support within their country to be able to take over the government of the country in 1949 and be the first government in history to unify China and have the support of all the Chinese people. 
Those men took over a country that had enormous poverty, great illiteracy and many enemies. The majority of the world's leaders were opposed to the Government which Mao led in 1949 and they showed in many ways, including the imposition of trade embargoes and diplomatic non-recognition, that they hoped that the 
Government which Mao led would be shortlived. So not only did these remarkable men live through the period from 192 1 to 1949 before taking over government but they lived through the period until 1976 which saw that Government consolidated. I think it speaks well of Australia and perhaps the maturity of our foreign affairs politics that the last 2 Prime Ministers of this country have visited China and have seen the significance of China in terms of future relations for Australia in this region. I hope that the relationships that have been built up will continue. We should not dwell too much on earlier relationships between Australia and China but rather see ourselves as partners working towards stability within our own region, and recognising the great part that this remarkable man has played for his country. 
I preface my question by thanking the Prime Minister for taking heed of my suggestion last week to commence a relocation scheme for the unemployed. I now ask the Prime Minister: Will he explain to the House how retailers and consumers can have greater confidence in the future, as called for by his Minister for Industry and Commerce, when the $800m that will be taken out of consumers' pockets in a full year for health insurance will remove a massive purchasing power which could buy any of the following: 160 000 $5,000 cars, 800 000 colour television sets, 1 600 000 $500 refrigerators or washing machines - 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  In the advance publicity for the first Fraser-Lynch Budget, this Government trumpeted its alleged aims of producing a budget which would restore business confidence, reduce inflation, encourage job opportunities, protect the needy, put money back into the pockets of the people and eliminate waste and inefficiency. But the document presented by the most famous old boy of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  fails on all counts to fulfil the rosy picture painted by his media manipulators. Every strand in this web of conceit leads back to the same underlying goal- the deliberate continuation of mass unemployment and the associated shift of resources from working people and the consumers. Crucial to the so-called strategy of this Budget is the achievement and maintenance of mass unemployment. The rationale is to force the work force into submission, to impose through the fear of mass unemployment and the terror of poverty, a reduction in real incomes and in the standard of living of the Australian people. 
The Budget assumes that the work force will grow by 2 per cent over the financial year. This prediction is made in Budget Statement No. 2, but Budget Statement No. 4 records that the Government estimated that the average level of employment would grow by 1.5 per cent. In those 2 statements is the inherent contradiction between the public facade of the Government's Budget strategy and the reality of the fiscal fraud being perpetuated on the nation. 
This Government is coldly and cynically budgeting for a direct increase in unemployment of 30 000 people. It is not budgeting for the creation of new job opportunities or a reduction in overall unemployment levels. Coupled with this prescription for human misery is a direct attack on the level of real wages and on the standard of living of all Australians. This attack is achieved in a number of ways, none of which carries any mandate from the electorate. The Goverment has systematically plotted to destroy wage indexation. To date, its plans have been partially thwarted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. But wage indexation is clearly in jeopardy, despite election campaign promises to the contrary by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Workers are being asked to accept partial wage indexation as a prelude to no indexation, and at the same time they are being asked to pay up to $9 a week out of their reduced wages to finance another broken Fraser promise- the promise to maintain Medibank. This Government also promised in its election propaganda to reduce the tax grab, yet it bases its Budget strategy partly on a record 25 per cent increase in income tax receipts expected this year. This Government in its election propaganda promised an investment-led recovery for Australia, yet nowhere in the Budget is there any manifestation of this desire. 
The Budget is short on ideas for strengthening Australia's manufacturing sector. The Government seems content to adopt a  laissez-faire  approach to the sector, totally oblivious to the dangers that face manufacturing industry from the likely rise in mineral income, a gathering of momentum from capital inflow, and an improvement of the balance of payments, all of which will increase import competition. This Budget fails completely to do anything to help manufacturing firms out of areas where import competition is intense and is becoming more intense year by year. There is nothing in the Budget to encourage manufacturing firms to look more closely at export markets. There is nothing in the Budget to encourage firms to undertake expenditure on research for the development of products and processes that can be sold in Australia and overseas. There is nothing in the Budget to encourage firms to rationalise production so that a smaller range of commodities is produced, production runs are lengthened and economies of scale achieved. 
In his election policy speech in November,  Mr Fraser  said of the prospects for economic recovery in Australia: 
A consumption led revival would be fragile and shortlived. 
Last month, the Government in the economic statement attached to the Budget Speech said: 
If consumption fails to grow, there can be no recovery, simply because consumption is such a large part of demand. 
The Government appears to have changed trams in mid-course. Now, the Treasury throws up its hands in dismay. In Statement No. 2, the Treasury says: 
It first needs to be said that no one can accurately foretell the path which the economy will follow . . . 
The only definable strategy in the Budget is to produce further unemployment, in the hope that the work force will be cowed into submission. If industries collapse or are wiped out as a result of the Government's obsession with public sector spending or the Budget deficit, then that is acceptable to this Government. 
This Budget may well be fair representation of Fraser 's philosophy but it is not the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party, nor in the long run will the philosophy appeal to the Australian people. The Australian people are entitled to expect a Budget which enshrines the principles of economic security, education opportunities, equality through social welfare, security of employment, and wage and income levels commensurate with skill. We in the Australian Labor Party recognise the economic challenges facing Australia. We recognise that the great need today is to reduce the level of unemployment, not increase it, and to get Australian industry moving again on a basis that will ensure that the long term competitiveness of our industry is increased through a specific program of industry rationalisation and capital re-equipment. The days when Australian industry could exist as a truly private sector are gone, and every businessman knows it. We believe the role of the Industries Assistance Commission will have to change from the present approach of simply recommending a general level of tariff assistance, etc., and then relying on market forces to sort out the mess. It is quite obvious that industry needs leadership and, where necessary, specific direction in relation to company mergers and rationalisation of product ranges. 
What is needed in Australia today is a program of Temporary Assistance Authority reviews on a far more detailed basis than at present. These reviews should look at industries which are marginally uncompetitive with imports, in which substantial import competition has caused unemployment, and in which unused capacity is high. An example of this would be electric motors. These reviews should assess not simply the amount of assistance required, but also the specific programs required to reorganise the industries onto a more competitive basis. They should study, for example, the company mergers required, the latest capital equipment necessary, the research and development or product licensing needed. Firms, also need inexpensive and highly expert advice, and physical assistance to re-orient the product output. An improved Small Business Bureau would be very important in this. Industries should be offered short-term subsidies in addition to tariff protection where firms agreed to investment in their industries through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, and accepted the specific programs recommended to increase their competitiveness. Where a firm is principally Australian owned, this offer of government investment should be in terms of a low interest loan. Where the firm is overseas owned, this offer should be conditional on a share of the equity capital. This plan should not be seen as an open ended offer of government funds to any firm that is seeking extra money. Rather, it should be seen as a carefully bargained proposition for firms that can offer immediate socio-economic benefits, particularly job opportunities, coupled with the prospects of long-term international competitiveness. 
Similar forms of assistance should be undertaken for companies which are marginally uncompetitive on export markets. The Industries Assistance Commission's tariff review program should be substantially and temporarily curtailed. There is little point in spending years developing long-term tariff levels for an industry when the industry has short-term problems which could be fatal to its long-term future. The Opposition's initial assessments indicate there are a great number of companies in the categories under consideration. Temporary subsidies equivalent to tariff protection of between 10 per cent to 15 per cent, plus an equivalent amount of investment assistance, would result directly in a reduction in unemployment of about 100 000 persons, at a cost of about $350m. The multiplier effect on this specific form of assistance would provide a substantial stimulus to the economy and result in the progressive reduction of unemployment. 
There is no better example of the Government's total failure to develop a rational approach to Australian industry than its policy on the shipbuilding industry. In the middle of Australia's greatest post-war recession, with conditions worsening by the month, we have seen the spectacle of this Government deciding to scrap the Australian shipbuilding industry, with a direct threat to over 20 000 jobs. The unemployment benefits that will result from this course will cost far more than the additional subsidy required to keep these shipyards in business. No amount of production-cost subsidy will solve the problems of the shipbuilding industry in the long-term. It is clear that this industry is undercapitalised, equipped with obsolete plant and lacking in the marketing and management skills to survive in a competitive international environment. The shipbuilding industry may well be this Government's epitaph. The Australian Labor Party believes the industry can and must be saved. 
In its rush to destroy the shipbuilding industry, this Government totally ignores the social and economic costs of unemployment. The 'pool of unemployed ' mentality that drives this Government on does not stand up to objective analysis. With 400 000 Australians out of work, this nation can expect for the calendar year 1977 to lose production of goods and services totalling $3 billion in value. For every family affected by unemployment in this country, there will be a loss of more than $5,000 prospective income. But the cost is also borne by families which are employed. Not only will they forgo the benefits of the lost output, they will also have their incomes reduced- through taxation- by the amount paid out in unemployment benefits. On current unemployment trends, the reduction in disposable income for 1977 will be $600m, or $150 per family. 
The social costs of this Budget's strategy are also alarming. For young Australians leaving school this year- indeed, for the tens of thousands who left school last year- the Budget offers no hope that they can escape a life of being counted among the hard core unemployed. State and Federal Governments will reduce their intake of school leavers this year to negligible proportions. The Federal Government has once again reduced the numbers of the Australian Public Service and entrance barriers to universities and colleges of advanced education are tighter than ever before. The intake of apprentices by both government departments and instrumentalities and by private employers, following the planned castration of the national apprenticeship assistance scheme, will be slashed as uncertainty grows. Already, more than 100 000 people under 20 years of age are unemployed. The Budget offers no prospects for a further 100 000 students who will leave school within the next 3 months. 
For those Australians in their fifties and sixties who lose their jobs the Budget offers even less hope, if that is possible. Those losing their jobs now face a future of the dole and limited, temporary employment. Their plans for saving for retirement are ruined, particularly as high interest payments on house mortgages eat into reduced incomes. For a government that maintains that its close relations with, and understanding of, the business community are vital to Australia's business recovery, the Lynch Budget documents once again demonstrate the paucity of the national leadership now facing Australians. In the coalition's consumer affairs policy, issued last year, the advertising copy-writers who penned the document proffered the following platitude: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties believe that protection of the consumer is essential to justice in the market place . . . Modern market conditions inevitably place many consumers in a position of disadvantage. It is the responsibility of government to prevent the exploitation of that disadvantage. 
These fine words turned out, of course, to carry no weight in the formulation of this Budget. A study of the appropriations to regulatory agencies under the Lynch Budget show that, when compared to those of the Hayden Budget of 1975, the protection to the consumer is being reduced. The increase in appropriations to the Trade Practices Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal between 1975-76 and 1976-77 is about 1.5 per cent. Allowing for inflation of about 12 per cent, this would indicate a decline in real money terms of about 10 per cent in the activities of these agencies. The Prices Justification Tribunal has been the worst hit. Salaries appropriations remain constant at $ 1.7m, which is a fall in real money terms of 12 per cent. Administrative expenses have actually been cut by $90,000 or 20 per cent- a decline in real money terms of 32 per cent. The principal effect on the Prices Justification Tribunal will be to allow price increases to be 'justified' on an easier basis than at present, and to reduce further the small number of public hearings the Tribunal is able to conduct. 
The Federal Law Review found in June 1 975 that the Prices Justification Tribunal occupied a unique place in the development of Australia's legal and economic systems, in that the use of law allowed a macro-economic objective- the control of inflation- to be implemented with regard to the circumstances of particular companies. The Prices Justification Tribunal itself estimated that in its first year of operation it saved the Australian consumer $235m, which was the difference between prices found to be justified and those originally proposed to the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
This Budget effectively reduces the Australian Tourist Commission's budget by 25 per cent. Despite that,  Senator Robert  Cotton acknowledged in a Press statement a few days ago that the Commission had 'a key role to play in reducing the gap between Australia 's foreign exchange earnings from tourism and the amounts spent by Australians travelling overseas'. Tourism development loans, which totalled $350,000 in last year's Budget, have been reduced to nil in this year's Budget. 
Like consumers, many areas of business have been seriously handicapped by this Budget. The reduction in spending power for most persons achieved in this Budget must inevitably affect companies providing goods and services for people whose capacity to consume them is reduced. Inevitably, production levels will be hit and unemployment will result. The latest batch of statistics shows that industrial production fell across the board in July: 22 of the 3 1 seasonallyadjusted items fell, in most cases substantially. Undoubtedly these figures will provoke the Government to abandon seasonal adjustment for these indicators as well. The consumer durables sector has suffered production declines in all items, and the statistics show no indication of significant restocking after an actual reduction of $39m by private companies in the June quarter. 
As the Melbourne  Age  notes, the Government will have to revise its strategy if the decline continues, as a further decline will indicate a fundamental, break in the recovery which began as a result of the Hayden Budget's initiatives. Any close examination of the first Fraser-Lynch Budget must bring on uncontrollable bouts of pessimism for most Australians. The grand recoveries foreshadowed by the coalition parties in opposition have failed to materialise now that they have usurped government. 
Far from these being a promise of the recovery to come, this Budget indicates a total confusion in the minds of the men who believed they were born to rule and who used every under-cover device at their disposal to achieve power. The randist philosophy of the current leadership is singularly inappropriate for Australia in 1976. The Australian electorate does not and will not accept a Fraser-Lynch budget which deliberately sets out to put one Australian in IS out of work and then refuses to provide means for retraining or re-employment. 
The Australian people will not accept a budget which deliberately reduces the effectiveness of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission- the 2 bodies doing the most to protect consumers against inflationary price rises. The Australian people will not accept a budget which deliberately sets out to attack the level of their real income, and offers nothing but higher prices, higher interest rates, greater unemployment and recession in its place. This Budget shows the total corruption and the absolute lack of initiative or leadership in the people who perverted Australian democracy in 1975. It is a budget that will wreak on the economy the damage that this Government has already so successfully wrought on the democratic institutions of this nation. 
-We have just seen an incredible performance put on here in the House by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I will just take 30 seconds of my speaking time to describe what must have happened in his office prior to his coming into the House. One of the public servants must have said:  'Mr Minister,  you are required in the House. There is a debate on the unemployed. You had better take this speech with you out of the second drawer of your desk. You were going to deliver it to the Corangamite Liberal bodies and probably they would have believed it. But now you have been called upon to speak in the House, you had better go in and try to convince people there that what you are saying is correct'. There was not one utterance in the Minister's whole address, which lasted for 15 minutes, about what this Government is doing for the people who find themselves unemployed. Not only is it bad enough that Ministers continually enter the House to read out these dreary speeches written by the public servants, but worse, they are all starting to speak like the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  It is just one blurb. At least they should try to lift their diction a little so that we can try to understand what the hell they are talking about in the House. As I say, there was not one utterance about what the Government is doing for the unemployed. 
Let me turn my attention to the relocation scheme announced by the Government last week. Just a little over a week ago I asked a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the House about his awareness of the need for a relocation scheme for unemployed people in this country so that they can be taken to places where work is available. He ignored the question completely and indicated that the Government was doing nothing about it. Of course, on Friday out came the announcement that this is what the Government is going to do. It was announced that the Government hoped in the next 12 months to spend $2m on relocating workers. I want to give some indication of the efficiency of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which was responsible for the announcement of this scheme. There is a total ignorance by this Government of the need for a complete labour market project. There is a complete ignorance about what is happening with the work force in Australia. Let me remind honourable members opposite, whose god is private enterprise, of what is occurring. I hope that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  remains in the House because he has espoused unemployment from time to time. Between 1947 and 1975 the number of people employed in rural industries, expressed in percentage terms, dropped from 17 per cent of the work force to 7 per cent of the work force. The position in the mining industry has remained stable. It employs 2 per cent of the work force, although the figure dropped early in 1961 and came back to 2 per cent in 1975. The percentage of the work force engaged in manufacturing industry dropped from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. The percentage of people in the work force engaged in the tertiary industries in Australia has risen from 54 per cent in 1947 to 69 per cent in 1975. So we have seen a total change in the makeup of the Australian work force and we are waiting for governments to recognise what should be done to assist people to get back to work. 
We now have the introduction of this miserable relocation scheme. The Government says that it might be able to spend $2m in 12 months. The fact is- every member of Parliament ought to understand this- that the work force will not be the same again. We will not drift back to the good times that may have occurred in the 1950s, the 1960s or the 1970s. The fact is that many people who have been working in industry previously will have to find employment in vastly different industries and in vastly different areas of Australia. The Government talks proudly of this handout of $2m. The Press was quite right in its reaction to it. The Government should not be allowed to snow the Australian people into believing that this will overcome all the massive problems associated with the 400 000 unemployed in Australia today. 
Let us look at the position: It is not as if one would not have respect for a government that had a well thought out program if it had some sort of constructive contribution to make towards getting people back to work. I want to draw the attention of honourable members to an article published recently in the  Australian  following the announcement of this relocation scheme. The article, which is written by  Mr Charles  Wright, is headed: 'Unemployed need not apply'. I will read it and re-read it so that honourable members are aware of its contents and know that the department which was responsible for announcing the scheme has not got a clue what it is all about. It is another little bit of Liberal Party patchwork, another little bit of back bench sensitivity to the fact that twenty, thirty or forty of them might lose their seats in the election in 2 years' time. Let us look at the experiences of  Mr Charles  Wright with the department. He says: 
It seemed, on the face of it, a perfectly reasonable question. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is to make grants of as much as $ 1 900 for jobless families to move to where jobs are available. Ergo, one would think, the Department must know where jobs are available. 
One takes this question along via telephone, to the private secretary of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. One receives a rather long silence. 'Yeh, well,' finally ventures the private secretary, 'the plans are still being drawn up. They should be ready in a couple of days. The Department is working on them. ' 'There is nothing I can help you with today. I just don't think we are in a position to write about it in detail at the moment.' 'This reporter has been through the mill. He will not take the hint. He invites the private secretary to offer some sort of broad indication of where the jobs might be. ' 
I ask honourable members to listen to the next part. I quote the reply by the private secretary to the Minister:  'Well, 'says the private secretary, 'you would be looking at places like Newcastle, or Whyalla. ' 
Newcastle and Whyalla! Spike Milligan must be working in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The people responsible for drawing up the program are being asked questions validly and legitimately by the media as to what is occurring and they do not know. It would be a huge joke to tell any skilled, unskilled or semi-skilled person that he could probably venture into Newcastle or Whyalla to find employment. Both areas have the highest level of unemployed in their respective States. Eight per cent of the people of Newcastle are unemployed. The Department which announces this grand scheme says to the reporter that the unemployed should go to Newcastle or Whyalla. 
What the Department knows about this scheme goes on right through the article. The fact is that after the reporter had been talking to six or seven people in the Department he concluded that nobody knew anything about the matter. Finally he was told to make inquiries perhaps in 
Murwillumbah. A person in Murwillumbah said: 'We might need panelbeaters'. Someone else said: 'We could take building workers from New South Wales and place them in Western Australia'. The cost of shifting 1500 building workers' families from Sydney and Gosford, areas with the largest number of unemployed building workers, to Perth would take up all the Government's $2m. It is time this Government recognised that first and foremost it is in government. It is of no good continually haranguing us with the statement that we were in government and were to blame for everything that happened or, if it was not our fault, it was the fault of the trade unions. Honourable members opposite are in government; they are supposedly running the country. They are supposed to come up with the answers to meet these enormous problems. Until we have a total labour market project to reorientate the industries of this country, until we show some sophistication in our understanding of exactly what is happening, there will be no solution to Australia 's unemployment problem. 
I wish to take up the point made so often by the honourable member for Wakefield who says that perhaps we have the wrong industries, the over-protected industries, and we are stopping the building up of new industries. Only governments can bring this situation about in the future; only governments can recognise the plight of the 400 000 people who are unemployed. It is going to take more than the Government's miserable relocation scheme which has been announced to give back faith to the working people of Australia. The Government talks about shifting the unemployed and paying them $500 to shift their goods and $200 to pay the lawyer. In Sweden the Government moves in and buys the homes of the people who have to be shifted. Why cannot this Government do this? If people have to be shifted out of Newcastle and leave their homes, why cannot the Government move in and buy them new homes instead of allowing them, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said, to take the depressed price which may be available to people in an area where we have a high level of unemployment. This Government does not want to be serious about the unemployment in Australia. This Government is hoping that everything will return to the norm before November 1978. This Government totally ignores the plight of the people who are out of work. There are more people out of work today than there ever were when we were in government. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  in speaking to the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I take this opportunity to make some comments on the statement which has been tabled in regard to the Government's intentions about the future of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I am sorry that I have had to raise the matter in the Grievance Day debate because usually such time is taken up by members speaking on private matters, but it is pleasing to the extent that for 3 days now there has been a series of leaks to the Press- the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the Melbourne  Age - 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
In response to that argument - 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Port Adelaide making a statement on the future of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
In moving for the suspension of Standing Orders, one should expose the outrageous precedent which has been set in the Parliament. I have moved the motion as a result of the Government's failure to allow the Parliament to discuss the Prices Justification Tribunal and everybody in Australia ought to know this. 
-I have done that now,  Mr Speaker.  In moving that motion I point out that the Opposition has no desire to see a repetition of the problems with which we were confronted last Thursday. 
I will take a lot of convincing about that. 
The reason why we should have this debate forthwith is, first and foremost, to give the people concerned in Whyalla and Newcastle some idea of the Government's thinking as to the future of the shipbuilding industry. We are critical of the fact that the report on the shipbuilding industry was tabled in the House yesterday without any sign or motivation from the Government as to the future of the industry. Apart from some statements that the Government would not make any firm plans on the future of the industry until such time as it had talked to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the State governments, the Government has left up in the air the people who work in the industry and their dependants. It seems a little extraordinary to us that today the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser)  took the opportunity during question time to be critical of the role of the Premier of New South Wales in particular, but it was left to a back bencher - 

 -Mr Speaker, this is one of the reasons. Had the Prime Minister or a member of the Government with responsibilities in this area given any indication that the matter would come before the House later today or tomorrow, the Opposition would have welcomed the move to provide that opportunity to debate the issue. The report is of major concern to many people around this country. We were bewildered by the fact that it was left to a back bencher on the Government side to raise the issue. 
The manner in which the issue is raised casts doubt upon the Government's motives. The back bench member, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  has given notice of a motion for General Business Thursday No. 8. According to the program which is now before the Parliament, that is likely to be in late February or early March 1977. It seems very unlikely that the Government could expect the Opposition, acting on behalf of the people of Newcastle and Whyalla, to allow the Parliament to sit idly by and ignore the ramifications and the impact of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the shipbuilding industry. It is for that reason that we believe that it is in the interests of all concerned for the matter to be brought before the Parliament forthwith. 
-I wish to address myself very briefly to the Tariff Proposals now before the House. I rise on behalf of the Opposition not to lay objections to the report but to make a couple of points which I hope the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  will note. Firstly, I ask that the Minister confer with his colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  regarding the question of meetings of the Industry Council of the electronics industry. I understand that it has not met as yet. This debate presents an opportunity to raise this question because a meeting of that Council may help in some ways to overcome the lack of confidence that has existed within the industry. 
The second point I wish to make is that when the draft report system was announced by the Minister, I was quite critical of it. It seemed to me to be an unnecessary interference with the operations of the IAC. I am not altogether convinced that the system will ultimately prove to be a good system on all counts. But, nonetheless, there can be no doubt that in this instance there has been a marked change between the draft and the final report. That comes about as a result of the representations made by all the people involved in the industry. So I just make those 2 points pertaining to these Tariff Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kelly)  adjourned. 
I wish to spend a few minutes of the adjournment debate in describing what has occurred in South Australia in the past few years. I am prompted to do this because last Friday night I went to a remarkable birthday party. Just as I was congratulating the Premier on his fiftieth birthday, I was confronted with the sight of the former Premier,  Sir Thomas  Playford, who was also there. The honourable member for Wakefield had better sit down, and I will tell him the second part. I thought it was rather extraordinary that these 2 people should come together at such a function. This prompts me to relate to the Parliament what has occurred on the issue upon which, I suspect, those men had their most bitter fights. That is the matter of representation in the South Australian Parliament. 
For over 30 years in South Australia we suffered not a gerrymander but what was termed a playmander, in that 2 representatives from the country had to be elected for every representative from the city. We had a House of Assembly of 39 members, twenty-six being from the country and thirteen from the city, with 66 per cent of the people living in the city of Adelaide. That was the situation right up until 1965 and, in fact, after Labor was elected in 1965. The first transformation of the electoral system took place after great pressure from the Labor Party but under the Government which was led by Premier Steele Hall. The tolerance between the city and country electorates was narrowed dramatically. The point I make to honourable members is that in South Australia we now have what I consider to be the very best electoral system applying in Australia. It is based on one vote one value. 
-Before the juniors of the Liberal Party get too excited about what I have to say, I point out that on all occasions throughout all the years when we were being charged with trying to bring in a system which would favour Labor, that is one vote one value, the people in the country, in onslaughts against the Labor Party, were led to believe that in some way country people would be deprived of their right to electoral representation and to have their influence felt in the Parliament of South Australia. When the commissioners, who no longer are responsible to the Parliament but whose decisions can be appealed against only in the courts, brought in their report some weeks ago based on one vote one value, they wiped out 5 country seats and they made one country electorate almost two-thirds of the size of the State; but the Liberal Party did not appeal. The significant factor is the transformation which has taken place in South Australia. There has been an acceptance by both major political parties of a proper electoral system. Of course, the significance of this is that members of the Liberal Party here ought to be looking at what their colleagues have done and accepted in South Australia. Those colleagues know that when they have the majority of votes in South Australia in the future they will be the government. 
The commissioners no longer will be subject to the manipulation of Parliament. In spite of all the fears which over the years were driven into country people, we now find that the House of Assembly is to be elected on the basis of one vote one value. This is in spite of the charge or allegation that it will take 54 per cent of the vote to have the Liberal Country League elected. I ask: Why did not the Liberal Party appeal? It did not appeal against the new boundaries. In the upper house the transformation in South Australia has been even more radical. As my friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who served in that austere chamber will appreciate, for over 100 years the ratio of Liberal members to Labor members was 16:4. Now the total State is one electorate and there will be proportional representation with optional preferential voting. One could not get a more democratic set-up than we have in South Australia. To those honourable members on the Government side who are serving their first term here I say: 'For God 's sake, do not let those honourable members in the National Country Party corner get on top of you this time'. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
I rise tonight on quite a serious matter, concerning the attack in the Senate upon one of the most distinguished Australians that we have in our midst. I refer to Professor Manning Clark. A question was asked yesterday by  Senator Sim  and  Senator Carrick  gave the reply. In posing the question  Senator Sim  used the words: 
In view of the bigoted and fascist views expressed by Professor Manning Clark . . . 
In his reply  Senator Carrick  said: 
It is fair to say that Professor Manning Clark has a reputation of expertise in Australian history. It is quite clear from that article and from his presence in recent days- 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it true that the Government dropped its proposal to have union elections conducted by compulsion by the Commonwealth Electoral Office as a result of being warned that it would be reported in accordance with the Freedom of Association Convention operating under the International Labour Organisation, thus provoking massive international labour retaliation? Irrespective of whether it is true, in future will the Government submit, in accordance with the Freedom of Association Convention operating under the ILO, all proposals it has in regard to trade unions in order to ensure that such a conflict is avoided? 
-I rise to speak on these estimates, to support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and to refer to what I believe to be the essence of the difficulties that parliamentarians, Ministers in particular, and governments specifically encounter when dealing with Treasury. I support the comments made yesterday by the honourable member for Adelaide when he referred to the need to broaden the responsibility for economic decision making in Australia. With all due respect to the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  who spoke so glowingly of John Stone, I believe that not all previous Ministers who have dealt with the people in Treasury would share the same opinion of Treasury. In fact, some Ministers would have shuddered at the mention of the name 'Treasury'. Other Ministers had made up their minds to oppose anything put up by Treasury, so low was their opinion of that Department. 
One of the difficulties that we encounter is that sooner or later the line taken by Treasury is easily identified. For instance, Treasury has bitterly opposed indexation. It has never wanted indexation. It opposed the introduction of indexation on the basis that it would lock in inflation at the rate obtaining at the time of its introduction. That may be an argument. It is an argument that was rejected by the Labor Government at the time when indexation was introduced, but it seems to be gaining support among members of the present Government. It seems to me that there is a missing link between Treasury and the Ministry, and Cabinet in particular, in reaching decisions on matters such as indexation. If the advice of Treasury were accepted on the question of indexation the breakdown in indexation would thrust upon Australia great conflict in industrial relations and perhaps would have a far greater impact on consumer demand than Treasury readily recognises or is prepared to accept. 
It seems to me that some advice should be obtained other than the narrow advice that Treasury gives to the Government. I speak not only of indexation. There is also the question of Medibank. The new Mark II Medibank, as the Government now likes to call it, is about to be introduced into Australia. I have no first hand knowledge of this matter, but I would have thought that Treasury would have taken the position that we had to offset the cost of health care in Australia. The primary target for Treasury then is to raise funds. The mechanism by which that is done becomes a problem for the Government. We have seen demonstrated in the Parliament today, in answers to questions asked of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  by honourable members on his own side of the Parliament, the fact that the Government is still not clear on how people will be affected by Medibank when it is introduced tomorrow week. Honourable members who are not prepared to admit that constituents have been coming to see them, as late as today in the case of some honourable members, seeking information about what they should or should not do on Medibank perhaps are not attending their electorate offices. This is a problem that I do not think Treasury can understand. 
This matter probably raises the very real question whether the national Parliament should have been established in Canberra, so far away from the real life. Perhaps we would not be guilty of all the charges about centralism that are made against us if the national Parliament had been established in one of our great cities of Melbourne or Sydney. But be that as it may, it seems to me that there is a missing link between Treasury and the Government. Treasury is the most important Department and it ought to be respected as such. But there is always a great deal of bitterness, not only between Ministers and Treasury but also between many back-benchers and Treasury, concerning the way in which governments readily accept Treasury advice. In regard to the question of indexation there can be no doubt that the advice which has been coming from Treasury to the Government and which is being accepted by the Government is proving to be a disaster because there is no economic miracle on the horizon. All the talk about what will occur as a result of the moves that have been taken by the Government, acting on the advice of Treasury, is not bearing up. An article on consumer demands in today's  Australian Financial Review  exposes what the Government is saying. 
Another important issue in regard to what may be called the missing link between Treasury and the Government is the report the day before yesterday on the shipbuilding industry. I should expect the Treasury to take the economic position that it is not in the best interests of Australia to continue to build ships when it is costing so much money- I emphasise the words 'costing so much money'- for Australia to do so. If it was not costing Australia anything- if we could compete fairly and squarely with all the low labour cost nations overseas- the Treasury probably would be quite happy with the shipbuilding industry in Australia. But as it is delving into some of the Treasury's reserves it takes the stand that it is not correct to continue with what it determines as being an inefficient and costly industry. 
But who else is on hand when such determinations are made? Is there an adjunct to the Treasury which tells it about the social scar involved in closing down the shipbuilding industry? Who is on hand? It may even be just the person who wrote the last pamphlet of the Liberal Party of Australia on defence, who considered the shipbuilding industry to be so important to Australia. Where is the additional advice that ought to come with Treasury advice on such important matters? How do we fill the vacuum that comes about with the straight out economic advice that comes from Treasury to government, whether it be a conservative government or a Labor government? I think that if honourable members think of those matters they will have to agree that the initiative taken by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is a correct and proper way of getting a debate on this matter of the way in which governments submit themselves to the Treasury. 
In the case of the shipbuilding industry, for instance, it is no mean feat for any politician- be he a supporter of the Government or a member of the Opposition- to have to do as has to be done by my colleague the honourable member for Grey,  Mr Walks,  whose electorate encompasses Whyalla, that is, attend a meeting tomorrow night and announce that the Government looks to be hell bent on putting 26 per cent of the work force in Whyalla out of work. According to the Industries Assistance Commission and separate from the advice that may have come from the Treasury, there is very little likelihood of any of the 2500 people involved finding work in Whyalla. The only other manufacturing industry in Whyalla is basically an unskilled industry. The shipbuilding industry is basically a skilled industry. So we are talking about the shifting of 2500 or 2600 men and women and their families from the industry in Whyalla to another area where we hope that they can find jobs. We all know now if we are honest with ourselves that there are no jobs available for those people in Australia at the present moment. 
Those who have read the most recent  World News  report- an American magazine that has just arrived in the Parliamentary Library- can see the difference between what the Americans are doing on this score and what we are doing. The Department of Commerce in the United States is paying a subsidy of 49.6 per cent of the total cost in relation to the latest contract let for the building of two 27 000-ton ships in America. A subsidy of something like $US78m is involved. The Americans are not going to allow their shipbuilding industry to be dismantled. Of course, if it were just a matter for the American Treasury perhaps a different line would have been taken. The mechanisms of other governments that are adopting different attitudes from the attitude adopted by our Government seem to imply that there are different infrastructures between government decision making and direct economic advice that would be of benefit to this country. It certainly would provoke far greater debate, perhaps far greater debate of a more educational nature. So my contribution to the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury is one of support for the broadening of the economic advice, taking into account the social consequences of that advice. I also think that if that sort of advice were made known it would mean that we would have a more compatible relationship between parliamentarians, the Ministry, the Parliament, and the Department of the Treasury. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Australian Government received approaches from the American Government in relation to which countries should be barred from being recipients of Australian uranium? Has the American Government advised of any country which should act in partnership with Australia in building enrichment plants in this country? Finally, will the Prime Minister tell the House of his Government's reaction to this American intrusion? 
-No issue exposes the dishonesty, the deceit or the stupidity of this Government more than the question of its attitude to wages and prices. There are such things as wage and price justice, and this Government is completely ignoring them. The policies of this Government are dishonest because they are all thrust at wage and salary earners. They are deceitful because no mention was made of them prior to the 1975 election. They are stupid because they just cannot and will not work. The Government ought to be condemned for the manner in which it is provoking what I believe will be one of the major industrial confrontations to hit this country since the Second World War. If the period of the Labor Government's term of office had not been interfered with in the way it was by the intervention of the Governor-General, I believe that the referendum put to the people in 1974 to give the Federal Government of Australia power over prices and wages would now be carried overwhelmingly. If it were put to the people by this Government it would be defeated overwhelmingly, and quite rightly so. The people have changed their minds on the powers that the Government ought to have but they have not changed their minds on the deceitful way in which this Government is trying to impose its policies. 
The spin-off of wage justice brings 2 things. It brings good industrial relations and it brings healthy consumer demand, and on both those scores this Government has failed dismally. On both those scores it has failed completely. Can wage and salary earners look forward to wage justice? The Government's announced firm commitment to reduce real wages to earlier levels implies a reduction of about 10 per cent in average weekly earnings. That is a reduction of nearly $17 a week in current money values. Plateau wage indexation has already clouted the skilled blue collar worker and middle class employees, putting them between $2 and $6 behind the cost of living. The Government is moving too clumsily and too impatiently and will provoke retaliation. It will cut back in consumer spending power too quickly and probably encourage an increase in the household savings ratio at a time when increased consumer spending and looser purse strings are wanted. Any policies in those areas should be ones of gradualism and aimed at maintaining a social compact with the unions, which have been remarkably restrained in wage claims in the last 18 months but are now becoming restive in the face of Government provocation. 
On the question of eating into the wage packet, not only do we have the policies of the Government on indexation, but this week we are going to have the wage packet of every Australian savagely attacked by the cost of Medibank. The Metal Trades Industry Council, at a meeting with representatives of employers as well as members of Parliament, warned about the effect that Medibank charges, together with indexation, are going to have on consumer demand. For those people who do not believe it, last week the  Australian Financial Review  not only reported the slump in car sales shown by the August figures but also had this to say about consumer demand: 
 Motor vehicle registrations yesterday joined the unfavour able batch of recent monthly economic indicators with a slump for the second successive month. 
After seasonal adjustment registrations fell 4279 or 9 per cent to 43 286. 
The preliminary Statistics Bureau August figure also represents a decline of 22.2 per cent on the June peak. 
Government officials yesterday reacted cautiously to the new round of figures, which, onthe surface at least, are bad news in the Government's hopes for an improvement in the consumer demand. 
As the unions and the employers have warned, consumer demand, instead of being encouraged, is being discouraged. Instead of money being spent, it is being put into banks. This is a result of the people- the wage and salary earners- not trusting the policies of this Government. Although consumer demand had been affected in the lead-up period to 1 October 1976, my prediction- the prediction of my Party- is that from October onwards, the effect on consumer demand of $800m that will come out of the wage packets of the wage and salary earners of this country in a full year to pay for Medibank will be nothing short of disastrous. The other side to the matter is the confused and mixed up views of this Government in relation to wage indexation. As we have said so many times before in the Parliament, the Government does not know what it wants as a wages policy. It has had no fewer than 5 different policies on wage indexation since last December. The representatives from the Australian Council of Trade Unions will be appearing before the Australian Arbitration Court at the next hearing for a national wage increase as the leading representatives of employees in Australia and will be still asking for full wage indexation. If the Court continues to give decisions allied with the submissions of the Government, one can predict also that many of the unions with sufficient industrial muscle will have to go outside the Court to protect the real wages of their members. They will not be able to protect those real wages by accepting the decisions which have been given by the Court. I agree with the unions and the representatives of employee organisations. Their views are completely in line with the views of the Opposition in this Parliament. There should not be any reduction in the real wages of the working people of this country. 
We have seen continually the confused statements of various Ministers of this Government. They climaxed in the call by the Treasurer  (Mr 
Lynch) to freeze wages. I ask honourable members to look at the reaction of the trade union movement and people throughout Australia to this off- the cuff speech by the Treasurer in which he called for a pay freeze in Australia. No doubt, the Government would like it. No doubt, the Government would like to announce officially that that would happen. But let me quote what some of the people who represent employees in Australia have had to say about that attitude. It is reported in the  Daily Telegraph: 
Union leaders warned yesterday of massive industrial upheaval, if the Federal Government froze wages and not prices. 
They reacted angrily to the suggestion by the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  to a wage freeze over the next 12 months . . . 
The ACTU  President, Mr Hawke,  said, 'The Government can forget any thought of expecting us to co-operate if they conduct themselves in the manner exemplified by their approach to Medibank. 
The ACTU will be pressing for the full wage indexation increase. I take no notice of  Mr Lynch'. 
The national  president  of the 170 000-strong Amalgamated Metal Workers Union,  Mr Dick  Scott, said: 
While prices continue to soar, we have yet to hear one word from Lynch and company about price control or curbing of profits. 
We see all the newspaper stories about the Government getting tough in regard to wages. We see the statements by the Treasurer, by the Leader of the Australian National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  They have all joined the fray in attacking the wage and salary earners of this country. But where are the Government statements on prices? Where is the intention of the Government to deal with the increased prices that continually rage in Australia? What is the Government going to do about this? No doubt, Government supporters would say: 'The unions must enter into a contract. There has to be some sort of social contract to bring down inflation in this country'. But the proposition being put to the wage and salary earners in Australia is a one-sided contract: Freeze wages and let prices go on increasing unabated; do not worry about them. The Treasurer has said, 'Profits must return to the norm'. As has been asked before, what does he mean by this? Does he mean that profits must return to their level in the economy prior to 1 972? Does he want people- the average wage earners in Australiato take a reduction in their real wages of $ 1 7 a week? Are we to expect that a tradesman in Australia will have to take a reduction in his real wages of $10 a week? If the Government is pursuing this policy, which all its statements lead us to believe, it has to lead to a disaster. It has to lead to a failure. It has to lead to a major industrial confrontation. It has to lead to the end of wage indexation. The strong unions will go outside the Court and maintain their real wages with their industrial muscle. Perhaps that is what the Government wants. Perhaps the Government would prefer a few strong unions to go outside the Court to maintain the real wages of their members while all the others are left far behind. All the submissions of the Government in regard to wage indexation throughout 1976 have been made at the behest of the employers and have had as their intention the destruction of wage indexation. We have had no fewer than 5 different policies from the Government on wage indexation. 
Let us look at the way in which the Government has treated the Prices Justification Tribunal, the only monitor of price-fixing in Australia. Whom do we see from the Government side of the chamber jumping up and saying that we must give the Prices Justification Tribunal more muscle? If we expect all the employees in Australia to be restrained in thenwage claims, we would expect one of the 91 members opposite to say something about prices. We would expect someone from the other side of the chamber to say that if there were to be a social contract, it must be a 2-sided contract and that the manufacturers and employers also must knuckle down in regard to their prices and profits. But let us look at what happened in the Budget. The increase in appropriations for the Trade Practices Commission, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal between 1975-76 and 1976-77 is about 1.5 per cent. Allowing for an inflation rate of about 12 per cent this year, in fact, there is a decline in real terms of about 10 per cent in the activities of these agencies. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal has been the worst hit. Salary appropriations remained constant at 1.7 per cent which, in real money terms, represents a fall of 12 per cent. Administrative expenses have actually been cut by $90,000 or 20 per cent, a decline in real money terms of 32 per cent. This Government, as was its stated intention during the election campaign in December of last year, is out to destroy the Prices Justification Tribunal. The intention, as evidenced by the appropriations in the Budget, adds weight to the argument that the PJT is up for destruction. I noticed from the last annual report of the PJT tabled just a few minutes ago that the Tribunal has concern about continual controversy about its existence, what its role is to be, what companies are to be exempted from examination and who is to have power to exempt. Is it to be the Minister or the Tribunal? Will added powers be granted? Will the lifting of the ceiling presently set at a turnover of $30m at which the Tribunal examines the operations of companies exempt many companies which really ought to have their prices monitored? What are we talking about when we talk about the acute competitive position between companies? Is this a real position or are these companies just being let off the hook so that their prices cannot be monitored? 
To sum up the position, the policies of this Government ought to be condemned by everybody in Australia. If employers throughout this country believe that the economy will be restored to normal by the policies of this Government in bringing about a confrontation with the working people of this country by trying to reduce their wages and increase prices, they are wrong. If the employers, the manufacturers, the banks and the insurance companies believe that the economy will be returned to normal- we read in the newspapers how profits have increased enormously in the last 12 months- when people can purchase less than they were able to purchase 12 months ago, they are wrong. All this will do is lead to disaster. 
All we need to do to see this is to look at the summary of the latest  Newsweek  magazine. When we are talking about reducing wages to overcome our economic problems, we should look at the inflation rate of neighbouring countries. In South Korea, there is an inflation rate of over 20 per cent and the per capita income is $350 a year. Now are reduced wages- the miserable wages that are paid in Korea- overcoming the economic problems there? What we say on behalf of the Opposition is that there has to be a contract in this country, but the contract has to be an honest contract between those on both sides of the fence. We cannot expect the majority of people in this country who are wage and salary earners and/or their dependants to cop all the responsibility and to carry all the burden of the economic ills of this country. That will not happen and it would not be accepted if it did happen. At the same time as people were expected to accept this responsibility, prices would go on rising, unabated. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-! direct attention to the effect of Government programs in the electorate of Port Adelaide. I am sure that many other honourable members are having the same experience as I am having with the number of constituents who are coming to their offices with problems concerning the following: Nursing home costs, homes for the aged, the Australian Assistance Plan, the school dental scheme, the advantages that were brought upon them by the Australian Heritage Commission and the effect upon youth sporting organisations as a result of cutbacks in grants for those various aspects. I will go through the list. I represent an area which has a number of aged people above the average age in the Adelaide area. The nursing home problem in my electorate is becoming of increasing importance. A number of people are finding themselves unable to meet the cost difference between the pension paid to the person and the subsidy paid by the Government. Many pensioners who are keeping elderly parents in homes are finding that they are using most of their pensions for that purpose. Working people are finding that it is taking a week 's salary and in some cases 2 week's salary to keep their elderly parents in a nursing home. This is an area that will have to be looked at by the Government to avoid further poverty being imposed upon the elderly people throughout Australia. In areas like my electorate of Port Adelaide, the effects are quite devastating. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  presented a program for aged persons homes. Under that program, thousands of aged people who considered themselves in some sort of security because they could get into aged persons homes that were planned for construction over the next 3 years now find that the proposed homes to which they were to go are missing from the list and that there are no plans to subsidise the respective homes over the next 3 years. Indeed, their futures are very dim. The charitable organisations which are involved in putting forward these plans have lost no time in protesting. The Port Adelaide Methodist Mission has already directed correspondence to the Minister pointing out that it was the intention of the previous Government and of this Government when it came to power to proceed with the construction of aged persons homes in the Port Adelaide electorate. 
I turn now to the Australian Assistance Plan. Again, the handing back of this scheme to the States may mean the end of the Plan altogether. There have been critics of the Plan but all organisations within the community have been able to receive great benefits from it. The Government's action may mean an end to the 
Plan. No fewer than 64 community programs were launched in the Port Adelaide electorate under the Australian Assistance Plan. It was not a very large budget, but it allowed many of the community programs to get under way. It allowed these community groups to have some form of semi-professional organisation so that they could carry out their work more effectively and more efficiently. Under the school dental scheme, introduced by the previous Whitlam Administration there was a plan to see that all primary schools throughout Australia had school dental services operating by 1982. This scheme has been brought to an end. Many of the schools that were promised such facilities now find that they have been taken away and there is no set date when these facilities will be available for the children. In the working class areas of Australia, such as the area I represent, this sort of facility is of extreme importance. The end of the scheme has had a very bad effect upon the people in the area. 
The recommendations of the Australian Heritage Commission saved many of the fine spots in my electorate. We saved all the original sandhills of the Tennyson area of Port Adelaide. But what will happen in the future? All the historic spots of the western districts of Port Adelaide are now up for grabs as a result of this Government being carried away with the argument of the size of the deficit. Our standard of living, standard of comfort and pride in the tradition of Australia has to go by the board. The final program to which I refer which has suffered under this Government is that which helped the youth clubs of the area. They received some support from the previous Government, but they now find themselves without the funds to carry on with full-time managers which the youth clubs in such areas need. In all these things, we are finding that we are going back to the pre- 1972 stage. We resolve to lead the fight again to have these programs recommenced under a new Labor government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Did the Bland Committee- the Administrative Review Committee- make great criticism of the operations and efficiency of the Department of Repatriation? Did that report lead to the change of the name of the Department? Finally, will the Prime Minister justify to the House the reasons advanced for not tabling that report? 
-In the few minutes available to me tonight I would like to direct my remarks to the question mark that is hanging over industry in Australia. I think that enough has been said about the way in which the Government had meddled with the appropriations for the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal and, perhaps, with its series of directives to the Industries Assistance Commission. Let me say firstly that, whilst on occasions I have had some criticisms to offer of remarks that the IAC has made in various reports, I still stand by its role of an independent body giving expert advice to the Government of the day and then allowing the Government to make decisions based on that advice. 
I do not believe that meddling in the affairs of the IAC is in the interests of the future development of our industries or of ascertaining the correct path that we ought to follow. But in respect of the recent exercise that was conducted in relation to the shipbuilding industry I do say that I believe that whenever any government requests the IAC to consider the situation in a single industry in a hurry, as the Government did when it requested the IAC to consider the impact of the dismantling of the shipbuilding industry, there are good arguments for other departments being involved with the IAC in bringing down a final report. The IAC made some comments on the defence nature of the shipbuilding industry. It may be that the Government committee, looking at the defence capacity of our industries, ought to have been spoken to about the social scan that should be left. Perhaps the Department of Social Security should have been more involved than it was concerning the social scar that could result. I believe that there is a good case to be made out for extending the arm of the IAC when that sort of occasion arises but I would not recommend it in the normal course of events. 
A wave of shock must be be going throughout industry in Australia today despite all the optimistic views industry expressed following the change of government in December last year. Many industries believed that all the problems of the economy would end on 13 December last year. In spite of the comments of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  about the employment opportunities offered by the mining industry, and in spite of all that has been written about the money that has been invested in the mining industry, the fact remains that it still employs only 2 per cent of our work force so it does not overcome the problem of the allocation of human resources in respect of employment. All those industries which believed last December that all their problems were over are today looking at a completely different picture. I believe there is also a very good case to be made out for setting up new national forums of employers, employees and perhaps primary producers who, apart from government and spun off from government, can give government and the Parliament the results of their thinking and their guidance on what ought to happen in Australia. It is in the interests of all of us to put the unemployed back to work, but no one has the grand plan for how to do it. 
The White Paper on manufacturing industry is taking so long to be born that it is starting to look more like a white elephant. Those who are prepared to gamble are expecting it to be very feeble in what it says about the future of industry. Most economists put forward the view that we should be preparing for change in industry and that it is not in our interests to maintain industry as it is, which has been the fight we have had over the years. Very little preparation seems to have been done in Australia on acknowledging the changing nature of our work force. We are not prepared to give the instructions that ought to be given to our educational institutions on preparing the children now going to school for what the work force will require. We are still following traditional lines of education and preparing children for a society which may have existed in Australia 20 years ago. It is astounding to me that we all sit by and watch skilled people being forced out of work and in some cases having to do unskilled work. It seems astounding that we do not make more of a protest about the fact that the intake of apprentices in 1976 is down on last year's intake by 25 per cent. It seems incredible that we are expecting everything to return to normal. 
The metal manufacturers admit that at least 80 per cent of them are now importers as well as manufacturers in Australia. We have come to recognise that many of the jobs of the people who are unemployed in Australia are now outside Australia, perhaps in the industrial zones of South Korea, the Philippines or Singapore. There is no chance of Australian industry changing its cost structure in such a fashion that it will be able to compete with those industrial zones. There seems to be no intention on behalf of this Government to bring forward a restructuring program that will look after the people in industry who lose their jobs or give guidelines to industry to become a little more efficient and thereby provide it with some opportunity not only of meeting the local markets but also of becoming an export industry. I think we can all agree, with the population growth we have at the moment, that there is not much future for an industry being set up in Australia just to engage in the local market. The benefits to flow to industry obviously will flow to those industries which can both meet the local market and go outside this country. 
Had time allowed us to speak longer on the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade we could have seen the damage done by this Government in the field of export incentives. People may argue that the amount involved is not very much, but the psychological effect of it is very damaging indeed and could have a very lasting effect. I say to the Government, as I have said to it on a number of occasions previously, that its phobia about the deficit is going to leave lasting scars in many areas. People overseas, where perhaps we had an opportunity of getting a market, are not going to wait until this Government reaches the position of saying it has the deficit where it wants it. Commerce does not work that way, and this Government is supposed to be expert in the field of commerce. 
The fact is that industry is changing whether we like it or not. The Government has no plans for it. Some members of the community, employers and workers- a few of them- have to accept full responsibility for what most of us believe is in the best interests of this country. It is high time that the Parliament had a good look at those who are asked to take this responsibility. It is for those reasons that I say that perhaps the national forum of employers, primary producers and trade unionists can come up with a far more viable plan for what should happen in Australia than governments have been able to do in the past. I think this is going to have to be done quickly because part relocation schemes and part subsidy schemes for young people to go into industry are not going to occur if the industries cannot take on the additional people. They are not going to occur if people have to shift out of Newcastle or Whyalla and other areas of Australia if they are simply shifted into areas where they will be just as much unemployed. Those people are not going to go if they cannot find a job in their own trade and there is no infrastructure for retraining. In all these things we lag far behind most other advanced nations. 
I believe we are going to have to do something about these things very quickly. As I said at the outset, this does not mean interfering with the authorities that have been set up to deal with many of these questions. It should not become a war between the urban dweller and the rural worker or the primary producer. There are very few of us in Australia and we should be able to settle these questions in the interests of all who live here. This is not going to be done while this Government sits on its backside without having any ideas. 
-I take some delight in entering the discussion on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry because I think that in no other field is the role of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in Opposition laid so bare as it is in their performance since coming to government. They have learned, to the distress of the many thousands of people in the country areas dependent upon the policies of government, that airy-fairy promises made in Opposition are a great deal different from the decisions that have to be made in government. Whilst I can understand their deceit in their treatment of those people in the urban areas with regard to many other policies, it is beyond me that they can mislead the many thousands of hard working people in the country areas with the promises that were made in Opposition and which now cannot come to fruition as a result of their attitude on the Budget. 
If we look through what was promised in Opposition by this Government, we can see the great quandary that they are in in trying to bring about some resolution of those policies. Perhaps we can get some idea of the despair in which people in the country areas are living. It may be that the Labor Party has to do a great deal more work in terms of its relationship with people who live outside our great cities. There can be no doubt that a lot of people in those country areas are waiting for us to do just that. 
The role of this Government, its performance, and the way it has deceived country people have been absolutely incredible. I do not wish to go through the promises word for word but for the benefit of honourable members I should like to refer briefly to the Liberal Party and National Country Party so-called primary industry policy which was circulated throughout Australia prior to the general election on 13 December 1975. In that document of 4 foolscap pages we find many promises, none of which have been carried out. We will also find that in many other areas which were being handled by the Labor Administration affecting the lives of people and the standard of living of people living outside the cities, many programs have now been stopped. So not only will the Government's policies in regard to primary industry affect the man on the land and the rural worker, but there will be a decline in the real living standards of the people in the country towns and provincial centres. In addition, such matters as education and child care have also been greatly affected and this has affected the children and the communities in those centres. 
Let us just go through some of the things that were promised by this Government when it was in Opposition- promised recklessly and irresponsibly and in a manner that has left a great question mark over these communities in the country areas. Just a few weeks ago we saw the lengths to which the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will go in his disdain of country people. We had a situation in this chamber that could have been solved in 5 Minutes. The Minister's role was to keep the House dividing for 5 hours. The Cabinet was meeting during those 5 hours but the Minister for Primary Industry preferred to miss a Cabinet meeting. So he missed representing the people he is supposed to represent in the Parliament. He preferred to carry on with the childish tactics in the House of calling divisions. 
Let us look at some of the things which were promised by this Government when in Opposition and let us look at what this Government has already done. Perhaps the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is trying to interject will tell us what has been done in the wine industry and the promises that were made in relation to the wine industry. Perhaps the honourable member can tell us why the promises have not been carried out and when they will be carried out. I ask honourable members opposite: What effect has the $60m put aside to be spent on the superphosphate bounty had on rural policies? It seems to the Opposition that all it has done has been to cut off all the other options. Because the first grab was so big and so quick and because the Government saw it as an integral part of its promises, the $60m allocation was made. But it seems to us now that the Cabinet has decided that that is the end of the road. So in one way the bounty may have been of some benefit. But what else could the Government have done? The Government should have taken a little longer to think about how that $60m might have been spent. 
What is happening now about the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy? The former honourable member for Dawson lost his seat as a result of some of the crippling advertising against him in the electorate of Dawson about the Labor Party's socalled proposal to do away with the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. But what has happened now? At a time when the sugar price is dropping, we find that this Government is removing the subsidy. The very thing that it accused  Dr Patterson  of doing, and the very thing it accused the Whitlam Government of doing, it is now doing itself. I can assure honourable members that the Government's actions with regard to the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy were not part of its policy last December. What has happened to the great election promise about the Rural Bank? We heard a lot about the Rural Bank, the need for it and the role it would play for primary producers. What has happened to that promise? Not another word had been said on this matter since 13 December. What is the National Country Party now saying about decentralisation? The National Country Party is giving its full support to the Liberal Party's demolition of the growth centre concept which was introduced by the Whitlam Administration. So we will see less and less activity in country areas. 
What is the Minister doing about the dairy industry? It is doing a bit more fence-sitting on the Industries Assistance Commission report on the industry. The governments in Queensland and Victoria will sabotage the report and the drought will send the dairy farmers broke. This Government and this Minister for Primary 
Industry have presided over and witnessed 2000 dairy farmers in this country going on unemployment benefit. That is one of the great achievements of this Government. What has happened to the Australian Wool Corporation report on wool marketing? What have the Government and the Minister done in regard to the beef industry? They have subsidised the export levy against IAC advice. The financial benefits go to the exporters, not to the beef producers. Where are all the markets promised to primary producers by this Government when it was in Opposition? That is just another of the great empty promises of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in Opposition. 
What marketing reforms has the Government or the Minister engaged in, besides getting industry offside by blundering in with proposals to restructure the Austraiian Meat Board? What has the Minister done besides publicly and naively admitting that we were dumping meat on the United States market? This Government, which was going to do so much for primary industry, has not even appointed an agricultural attache to one of our greatest potential markets, Japan. Where is the Government's policy on the grain and cereal industries? Where is the Government's policy on the fruit-canning industry? Where is the action on the Australian Industry Development Corporation report which showed that we had an excess of fruit in the fruit growing industry and the canned fruit industry? The growers in the Shepparton area have not been paid for 2 years. Where are all the promises now from the Liberal Party and the National Country Party about what they were going to do for people in the rural industries? What initiatives has the Government taken in regard to the apple and pear industry? What has it done about breaking down State restrictions to keep some of these products out? What has happened to the wine-grape industry and the promises that were made by the honourable member for Angas and other spokesmen for the Government? Where is the Government's action on the IAC report on the dried vine fruits industry? Where is the Government's action on the IAC report on rural research? In all of these things the great game of deceit has been played. 
The great fallacy about this Government is that it represents people in the rural areas. The fact is that in Cabinet the Liberal Party has told the National Country Party: 'That is the end of the road'. All of the promises that were made prior to 13 December are just empty balloons. Apart from the superphosphate bounty, in what way has the Government alleviated the problems of the people who live in the country areas? On behalf of this side of the chamber, I can assure honourable members opposite that a lot more work will be done by the Labor Party in putting forward proposals that would bring about benefits to people in country areas. The Labor Party's only crime in government was that we refused to tell people with these problems that we could be all things to all men. Honourable members opposite foolishly, haphazardly and stupidly made thousands and thousands of promises every day they were in Opposition. Now they cannot fulfil those promises. They ought to be condemned for it. 
It was not my intention to deal in this debate with those matters which arose at the end of 1975 but as the poor man's Kevin Murray has touched upon them perhaps it would be as well if I said a few words about what I thought were the injustices of what occurred in 1975 because it goes beyond the pleasure which is reflected in the faces of the 91 honourable members who sit opposite. The actions that were taken last year by the Governor-General which brought about the downfall or sacking of an elected government have since 11 November split the Australian community and those who think that this is to the benefit of the Australian society are gravely mistaken. On 1 1 November next they will be reminded of how the people feel about it, not just members or supporters of the Australian Labor Party but a lot of people around this country who think that what happened last year was not in the interests of the country and do not want to see it recur. They want to see the Constitution altered so that it cannot recur. 
Whilst there has been a lot of emotion about the dismissal of the Whitlam Government and the handing over on 1 1 November to a party which at the time had a minority of ten in the House of Representatives, the people's House, the debate from now on will be about an alteration of the Constitution. This is the only way by which we can constructively avoid what occurred in 1975. Honourable members opposite are gravely mistaken if they think that the majority of people in Australia endorse those actions and hope they occur again. There is an additional political feature about what occurred in 1975 and whilst the glee that shows in the faces - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! If the honourable member for Bendigo insists on interjeting I will have to deal with him. 
Any of the major political parties in this country can win an election if it can choose the time to go to the polls. That is what occurred last year. The Liberal Party selected the time and the Governor-General carried out the execution. It is for that reason and no other that the numbers in this House are 9 1 to 36 now. I do not think the people of Australia want to see that recur. 
The only other matter I want to touch on- it is additional to what has been said by my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)-  concerns legal aid. What this Government is doing, although it has not said so, is trying to completely dismantle Australian Government involvement in the provision of legal aid for the people of this country. It is not just the Government's stand on legal aid which continues to astound me but also its failure to understand the need for legal aid and the number of people who require it When the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  said that the system in New South Wales under a Liberal government worked very well for 1 1 years he was talking absolute and utter nonsense. The Vincent report shows how many people appeared in courts in New South Wales without legal counsel. The Australian Labor Government did not set up legal aid because it was not required and when it did set up the Australian Legal Aid Office throughout Australia about 100 000 people went into those 29 offices. They were not people who previously had been to private solicitors. They were people who if they had been previously caught up with the law would have gone into courts undefended, and we all know what happens to people who go into courts undefended. We know their record compared with the record of those who have legal counsel. 
The provision of the Legal Aid Office is something which any party with any decency would want to take to itself and spread among the people. We do not have a community of people on equal salary. We do not have people of equal status in the community. We have a wideranging group of people within society. There are many people who are not looked after. We introduced Medibank so that everyone would have some kind of health coverage. We instituted the Schools Commission so that every child could have a decent education. We instituted the Australian Legal Aid Office so that every citizen in this country would have the right to be legally represented. So when the honourable member for St George makes his puny defence of the Government and the Attorney-General he ignores completely what was told to us in the Vinson report. Therefore I will quote from the report so that the honourable member can get it into his thick head. The report stated: 
The alarming extent to which accused persons are not represented by lawyers in courts of summary jurisdiction has been recently documented for New South Wales by the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research. The Bureau examined 28816 Petty Sessions cases during the first 6 months of 1972. From this sample were excluded all those with a previous criminal record, leaving a sample of 10 559 first offenders. Legal representation occurred in 3294 or 3 1.2 per cent of these cases. There was found to be a clear association between legal representation and securing a less severe penalty. It was found that those who were legally represented had 6 times the likelihood of obtaining an outright acquittal than those unrepresented. The unrepresented had a greater likelihood of being fined, and had 3 times as much chance of being sentenced to prison. 
So there are people in this country who have suffered far greater penalties than they would have if they had had legal representation. The fact is that the systems that have applied in our States have not met the responsibilities they were supposed to meet. The only way that we could overcome this problem was first of all to establish, consolidate and broaden the availability of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when Leader of the Opposition said in this Parliament during the Budget debate of 1975 that the Liberal Party in government would abolish the Legal Aid Office. In a debate that took place at the end of 1975 the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  said: 'Let us send this to a committee. We are not quite sure whether those 100 000 people that sought legal aid in our legal aid offices were really correct, whether they really needed this assistance.' We hear no such talk about a committee now. All we hear is talk of the Attorney wanting to sit down with the Attorneys-General of the various States to talk about setting up a commission. What has been the result of that? The result has been completely negative. While people are being fined and sent to prison we have this Government sitting around and saying that it wants to talk about it. 
The people of Australia were asked to express their opinion about the existence of the Legal Aid Office in a commissioned opinion poll conducted by Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls. People were interviewed all around this country and were asked what they thought were the advantages of the Australian Legal Aid Office. In a document commissioned by the Legal Aid Office itself ANOP pointed out that 53 per cent of people believed that the Legal Aid Office would assist the financially disadvantaged; 17 per cent said the office would be able to advise on a wide range of legal matters; 10 per cent said that the availability of legal advice should be made more convenient. How many people do honourable members think were unsure about the role of the Legal Aid Office? Five per cent of people thought this. Also, 95 per cent of people interviewed had some view about the constructive contribution that the Australian Legal Aid Office would make. They were asked what was the disadvantage of legal aid offices existing throughout Australia. A total of 71 per cent of all the people that were interviewed said that there were no disadvantages in having an Australian Legal Aid Office available. There would hardly be any other political issue on which the community's political consciousness was as great as it was oh the issue of the existence of legal aid offices. But here is the Government in its traditional role of conservative-thinking people. It says: 'Do not interfere with the relationship between doctor and patient; do not interfere with the relationship between solicitor and client'. People are appearing in the courts undefended. There are community groups that on some occasions want legal representation to fight the Government. But they are being denied these facilities because of the Government's backwardness, because of its reactionary policies. The Government ought to read what the people of Australia thought about the Legal Aid Office. There can be no equivocation on this matter. At the first opportunity a Labor Government has of coming back into office, legal aid will be established throughout Australia. 
-This Government has demonstrated nothing less than a masochistic attitude to the Australian shipbuilding industry which ignores the welfare and well being of all its employees and their dependent families. In particular, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has been quite cavalier about what he has said and where he has said it. The Government has handled the question of the shipbuilding industry with the same conscience and concern as Medibank would receive if Dracula were placed in charge of it. The issue has gone from being one of debate to one of a national joke- a joke for the Government but no joke for the men and women whose livelihoods are threatened, no joke for the fitters and boilermakers and other skilled personnel who have now brought their protests to the steps of Parliament House. To all this, the only response we have had in this Parliament from the Minister was that in his opinion the submission from the Australian Council of Trade Unions was light weight. Perhaps the author of that document was aiming at the Minister's mentality. Whilst we are speaking about the handling of this matter, it would indeed be interesting to know why the Liberal Party has abdicated its responsibility and why it is that no Liberal objects to the Minister using his own Country Party conference to tell the world about Government policy on industry generally. Who is governing this country? 
Let us make our position quite clear. Members of the Labor movement, politically and industrially, are fighting side by side to save our shipbuilding industry. The Japanese Government, to its credit, has recognised this even if the present Australian Government has not. There can be no argument about our need in the future for ships. In a country whose potential growth will revolve around our export potential, shipping will be the key. According to the estimates for the Minister's Department, our requirements for coastal trading purposes in the period from 1978 to 1986 will be 13 bulk ships and 6 tankers, a total of 19 vessels. That concludes my argument about our requirements, but that is not the end of the argument. For Australia not to build out of those 1 9 vessels sufficient ships here to keep our major yards operating means a commitment to close the yards down altogether. That is a commitment which most countries similar to our own have refused to make. The Parliament on many occasions has heard of the varied forms of assistance available to ship building in 30 other countries. It is not always in the same form as that in Australia but it exists and it is sheer nonsense for this Government to attempt to convince people otherwise. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  page 18 of the Industries Assistance Commission report which outlines the assistance given to the shipbuilding industry in 12 other countries. 
I rise in support of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  on this question. Whilst it perhaps ignores the presidential elections in the United States of America, it does take into account one of the great cultural events of Australia- the Melbourne Cup. It overcomes the problem that we were confronted with in 1975 when the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  exploiting his excessive sense of humour, called for a quorum when the horses were 6 furlongs from home. We all had to return to the House. The sweeps, legal and illegal, the betting, legal and illegal, are very much part of cur cultural make-up. But as it is a day for talking about wearing other hats, I will put on my hat as  shadow Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and recommend to the Government that this is one event that we do not refer to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it true that a film report of the visit to Australia by Lee Kuan Yew that was taken by the Australian Broadcasting Commission was given to the Prime Minister of Singapore when he left Australia? Does that film include footage of the demonstrations which were held against him in Australia? Is the Minister aware that people are held in Singaporean gaols without trial? What interest could the Prime Minister of Singapore or the people travelling with him possibly have in having a film report? Would it be political interference in the operations of the ABC for the Minister to stop such a practice forthwith? 

 Mr ERIC ROBINSON I am not aware of whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission has made a film available to the Prime Minister of Singapore. I will ascertain whether that is a fact and let the honourable member know. As to the balance of the question, I do not intend to respond to the honourable member's comment with regard to the conduct of affairs within Singapore. We will not interfere with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It has a right to conduct its affairs responsibly. I will look closely at the question asked by the honourable member and, as much as possible, see that he gets a full answer to it. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation was established by the Labor Government at the beginning of 1 975 to extend the powers of the previous Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The new export bank function of EFIC was begun to facilitate provision of export finance for medium and long term credit sales of machinery and capital equipment and the establishment of lines of credit especially to developing countries and State trading corporations. EFIC was set up in response to both suggestions from trade associations and industry associations in Australia and in response to the increasing competitiveness of world export markets for machinery and capital equipment. EFIC was designed to complement rather than to replace the role of existing Australian financial institutions in this field. 
At the time when the EFIC Bill was introduced to the House in late 1974,  Mr Anthony,  now Minister for Overseas Trade, supported the Bill with reservations, arguing that there was a danger that the Corporation would become a bank operating in competition with the existing financial institutions. The Bill we are discussing shows continued support by the Liberal and National Country parties for this Labor initiative. The amendments to the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act provide for new arrangements for funding to EFIC by the trading banks at commercial interest rates. The Government will provide an interest rate subsidy to enable the Corporation to on-lend these funds at internationally competitive rates. The Budget papers say that the gap between the commercial rates at which EFIC will borrow and the Corporation 's on-lending rates will be financed from the Budget by an interest rate subsidy payable to EFIC each year and, $500,000 has been set aside in this year's Budget for this purpose. 
The amendments also empower the Minister to guarantee the repayment of loan moneys provided by the Corporation rather than actually advancing the necessary loan funds to EFIC from the Budget. The Opposition supports these amendments because they indicate the Government's decision to continue an important Labor initiative aimed at encouraging Australian manufacturing exports. The proposed method of borrowing from banks for on-lending will reduce the call on budgetary outlays, so releasing funds for other high priority government expenditure. As well, this involvement by a statutory authority in the Australian capital market will facilitate effective use of Australian capital resources in a high priority distributional activity. This of course amounts to little more than window dressing for the Government is borrowing from the private sector outside the Budget rather than within normal loan programs. If the EFIC activities had continued as during the last financial year, Budget outlays would have been higher by perhaps $20m, the Minister says. As it is, borrowing from the private banking sector will be used to offset this reduction in potential outlays. So the net effect on the private sector would have been much the same under either arrangement. 
EFIC is performing a useful function in facilitating higher exports of manufactured and capital goods. In the period of its operation up to October, the value of tenders supported was $232m. Of these supported tenders, $32m worth of tenders had been won and $162m worth was still outstanding. Only $15m worth of tenders had been lost. The importance of the work of EFIC becomes clear when put in the perspective of both the level of domestic demand for Australia's manufactured goods and the level of exports. The Jackson Committee remarked in its introductory chapter 
Now that the domestic market is satiated and can grow only slowly, most manufacturing is stalled and lacks purpose. It needs to export to grow. 
Yet our exports declined last year. In the financial year 1975-76 exports of machinery other than electrical equipment fell to $223m from $235m in the previous year. Similarly, exports of electrical machinery and appliances fell from $106m in 1974-75 to $ 101m in 1975-76, and exports of transport equipment fell even more sharply from $223m in 1974-75 to $171m in 1975-76. This means that exports of capital equipment fell by about 12 per cent between 1974-75 and 1975-76. This decline was undoubtedly due at least in part to the international economic recession but also it was partly due to the increased penetration of markets to which Australia has traditionally exported by other manufacturing countries including, certainly, Japan. 
That more than the international recession was involved in the decline is shown in the recent monthly figures for manufacturing exports. When exports for July 1976 are compared with exports in July 1975 for machinery and transport equipment, sharp falls are noticeable. For example, $21m of non-electrical machinery was exported in July 1975 and $ 16m in July 1976. Electrical machinery worth $9m was exported in July 1975 but only $8m in July 1976. And most strikingly of all, $ 17.6m of transport equipment was exported in July 1975 compared with only $1 lm in July 1976. This latter figure was probably influenced by a major ship export in July 1975, but this does not relieve the apparent picture of substantial continuing decline of exports of capital equipment. 
The amendments we are debating now are essentially negative. They do nothing further to encourage successful export activity by our manufacturing industry. Creative government policies are required to stimulate and facilitate expansion of overseas markets for our exports. This negativeness is consistent with the Government's overall approach to the economy. Real Government outlays are being reduced by 4 per cent this financial year and an unprecedented reduction in Government services is involved which is retarding economic recovery. 
These mistaken macro-economic policies are mirrored in policies in particular areas. For example, support for the Export Development Grants Board was slashed by the Government when it came to office. Instead of the appropriation of $27.5m in the 1975-76 Labor Budget, only $17m was spent. The allocation for this financial year of $28m is much lower in real terms than the appropriation last year. The Government is making false economies which are contributing to the long run problems of Australia's manufacturing industry. Creative and effective collaboration between the public and private sectors is required to deal with the problems of Australian manufacturing industry. 
I want to take this opportunity also to make some remarks about the problems that we are going to have in ensuring that our industries achieve overseas markets. It has been put to this Parliament on a number of occasions, particularly by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  that our problem in competing has its base in only one area and that the problem is the wage structure of the Australian work force. We cannot expect to be able to compete with other countries, irrespective of what government initiatives are taken, until such time as the Government is successful in getting a real reduction in the wages of the Australian work force. I dispute that statement, firstly, because the wage system of Australia is directly related, of course, to our standard of living. When we ask for a reduction in the real wage of the Australian work force we are asking people to lower their living standards. Secondly, it ignores not just the competition which we have if we are using the wage of the Australia work force  vis-a-vis  the wage of people overseas. There are many other factors of which this Government is well aware. All the issues are documented and the Government can view these documents to see what other countries are able to do. 
One development which has continued under this Government is the going off-shore of Australian industries. A lot of industries no longer look to export from Australia. Rather, they look to maintain their traditional export markets by producing goods in other countries. It is not just a question of wages- of paying a fitter in Australia 5 times the amount which a fitter may receive in South Korea, Singapore or the Philippines. These countries which are setting up what we now term industrial zones pose a very new threat to Australian manufacturing industry. When we talk about what this Government has done to try to encourage industries to go out and get export markets, I think it is well to look at what industry itself is saying. First and foremost I think it is necessary for the Government to accept that there are other factors which attract industries from Australia. There are other factors which make Australian industry noncompetitive with other industries in other countries. We will not overcome the problem merely by saying that it is all the problem of the wage structure in Australia. 
In the latest copy of  Manufacturing News,  which is the journal of manufacturing industry in Australia, the leading article points out that ex- 
E oners are disenchanted with the Government's hard line. When the announcement was made to cut back on export grants we on this side of the 
House predicted that it was a false economy. We said that the Government could not cut back in these areas if it wanted to be successful in trying to attract export markets to Australia or in getting Australian industries to obtain export markets. It seemed to those of us who observed manufacturing industry that many of the industries we now have can continue only if they can expand their markets. We will not be a country with a population of 20 million plus as some people predicted years ago. The market in Australia will remain very much as it is. Industries will need encouragement, government initiatives, guidance and direction m some cases to go out and get the markets so that we can get the economy of scale in production which other countries have. 
We will never be able to compete with these countries in offering industry all the sugar-coated advantages which those countries offer. We cannot, for instance, ask an industry to come to Australia and tell it that there will be no trade unionists working in that industry. We cannot tell any industry that we have taken the Australian worker back to the stage of slavery by taking away the right to strike. We cannot tell industries outside Australia that they can come here and we will give them the same standards which these industrial zones of South Korea, Singapore, the Philippines and Taiwan are now offering. We have to take great initiatives on behalf of industry and with industry. There has to be a great deal more government involvement in trying to obtain these overseas markets. Today we are discussing one way in which to do this. But it was a very stupid economic decision which was made earlier in the grants. 
-It may even affect the honourable member for Bendigo who never has his mouth shut. But if he has a look at some of the industries in his electorate he will probably find that they have been affected by the Government's very stupid decision to try to save a few million dollars. Perhaps this is affecting the industries which were doing something about getting out and getting export markets. As I say, a great deal more has to be done on this matter. The Government will have to be involved. It should reverse forthwith its decision on export grants because we are losing markets at the behest of this Government's economic decisions. Industry will say, trade unions will say and everybody outside the Parliament will say that the decision was wrong. The only way we will survive as a manufacturing country is to obtain these export markets. I plead with the Government to stop wailing about the wage level in Australia as if pegging that level will overcome all problems. It will not. I ask the Government to stop wailing about the fact that it cannot come up with a recipe to overcome all the problems of industrial relations. No one has a recipe to overcome all the problems which are manifest in the contradictions between capital and labour. We will have to put up with a certain degree of industrial unrest. We will have to put up with a certain degree of competitiveness with other countries. The Government ought to take a great deal more initiative in trying to compete with those countries. The decisions which have been taken over the past year by this Government have done a great deal to destroy industry, not to help it. 
-It is rather pathetic to think that the Government has to put up - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Will the Prime Minister now take the opportunity to expand on his comment, made following the Constitutional Convention, that he will take steps to see that all future Senate and House of Representatives elections are held simultaneously? Can he inform the House when we can expect to see these steps taken by the Government? 
-Firstly let me say what a delight it is eventually to break through the gag and be able to speak. This is the most abortive debate we have had this year. We are debating amendments which were introduced into this House at half past five this afternoon and which even members of the Government parties have not seen, as was expressed by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  who in his honesty was prepared to tell the Parliament that he had not seen the previous amendment which was moved by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  In addition we find that the Government is very anxious to gag this debate. Why is it so anxious to gag the debate? Why was the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations dragged away by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  halfway through the debate? Why do we need to provide for the period of 2 years? What has happened between the promises being made at the election in 1975 and again in early 1976 and now when we have reached the debate of this matter in the House? What has occurred to change the Government's mind from wanting no collegiate system but a straight rank and file ballot, a one-tier system, to this latest amendment introduced in the House at half past five which provides for more tiers in the system than were in the Godfather's wedding cake? 
The unbelievable system the Government is introducing means that 1 5 per cent of the collegiate need no longer be elected by the rank and file after they have been elected once. Any political party in this country operating under that system could have ruled Australia for ever if it had 15 per cent at the start. Why is it? Why has the Government changed its mind on no fewer than 2 occasions on this important Bill? The unions have been preparing to change their registered rules to provide for a direct rank and file ballot where that was not in force prior to the Bill which was introduced by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  3 years ago. Now the Government has changed its mind and we have the audacity of the Minister coming in here and telling us that the reason he is doing this, the reason he has found it so important to introduce an amendment at half past five which no one else in the world had seen, was that the provision as it stands in the Bill might affect the efficiency of the unions. Which unions? Who asked for it? No names are given. No unions were told of what was to occur. Members of the largest organisation in Australia, the trade union movement, unless they are listening to the radio, do not know what is going on in this Parliament in relation to the laws that are to affect their wellbeing. 
It is no fluke that these laws are being changed because the reason for it goes beyond the unfortunate Minister who has been caught with the responsibility of presenting this legislation to Parliament. It goes back to a very old relationship in Australia of which honourable members opposite ought to be made aware. It goes back to a long-standing friendly relationship between the present Prime Minister and the  Chairman  of the National Civic Council,  Mr B.  A. Santamaria. There can be no doubt of the visits which  Mr Fraser  has made to  Mr Santamaria  's home. On all the occasions they have met these matters have been discussed, and the trade union movement is now asked to change its rules over the next 2 years to fit in with the wishes of that ilk. It is no fluke. Just look at the honourable members opposite who have spoken. They are not the senior politicians on the Government side; all the junior canaries have been put up. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  put forward his views on this Bill. He is a solicitor, a member of the second strongest union in Australia after the doctors. The patron saint of conscription told us about justice and the trade unions. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  has been anxious to speak in this debate. He left the Democratic Labor Party 6 months before the last election. 
It is no fluke that these people are associating themselves with this move to try to strangle rank and file control of the trade union movement. It is not those of us who have had experience in trade unions who are asking for a collegiate system. It is not those of us who have spent our lives working in trade unions who are saying: 'Let a small group at the top run the unions'. It is the Government. I would not be surprised if the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  became associated with this amendment because it is such a ratbag scheme. Look at some of the arguments put forward for changing the system. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs told us that the experienced management of a union might be affected if the general secretary of that union had to spend time mixing with the rank and file instead of going about his union business. Was not the promise made by this Government that it would give the rank and file greater control? Are we not seeking legislation which will give the rank and file control of the unions? What is the Government doing by this amendment? In his one minute speech, the Minister said: 'Let us not interfere with the bureaucratic handling of a union by making its general secretary answerable to the rank and file'. The Government is seeking to manipulate the trade union movement. This amendment, as I said, was introduced at 5.30 this afternoon without any consideration at all. The Government is acting according to the whims of one or two trade union secretaries who have told it that their positions could be in danger. The political position of those 2 trade union secretaries is closer to the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Australian Democratic Labor Party than it is to the Australian Labor Party. 
I issue this warning to the Liberal Party: For 20 years, we defied the cancerous effect of the DLP in the Australian Labor Party. For 20 years, we defied the DLP attempt to take over the Australian Labor Party. We have now seen the demise of the DLP as a political force. I am telling the Liberal Party now that what the DLP and the National Civic Council have decided to do is to take over the Liberal Party. That is in effect what will occur. We can see that in some of those who have been elected to this Parliament. We can see it in the legislation introduced by this Government. We can see it expressed in the speeches delivered by Ministers of this Government. We can see that, having seen that they cannot take over the Australian Labor Party, the DLP and the National Civic Council have now set their sights on increasing their influence in the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party will suffer as a result of this action. It will find that it will receive less support because it is bending backwards to assist the DLP and the NCC. 
Let me reiterate what I said about the 15 per cent provision in this amendment. The Minister has passed over this aspect as not being terribly important. Under this system, a union will be able to determine what size college it will have. Any union can decide that it will have 2 delegates to its college from New South Wales, with a union membership of 20 000, and 4 delegates from its Tasmanian branch, with only 2000 members. This is the result of the decision of the Government to introduce this legislation. In the example I have given, the members from the smaller States will determine who is to be the general secretary of the union. What the Government is doing by this legislation- it is a wonder that the National Country Party did not think of it- is jerrymandering trade union ballots by allowing unions themselves to determine how a college is made up. What will be the position if a union decides that it will have a college of 100 members throughout Australia? Of that number, 15 members will not need to be elected. I ask honourable members to imagine the faction that might have control of those 15 votes. It would rule the union. 
In spite of all the rhetoric from the Government and all the nonsense that we have heard, the Government will find that what it proposes to do now will turn the clock back so that a trade union, no matter who is in charge of it, will be able to devise a system by which those in control will never be out of power. The Government should not point the finger of accusation at the Labor Party, at the trade unions or at anybody outside this Parliament when that situation occurs. The finger should be pointed at the 91 Government members in this chamber, and especially the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Prime Minister. Those two thought up the idea. The other 89 Government members in this chamber do not know anything about what is proposed, and I feel sorry for them. 
What the Government is doing through this proposal is saying to the trade unions: 'Do whatever you like. Manipulate the system. Go as far as you want to go'. The Government now has provided to those controlling trade unions a system under which they cannot be put out of power. They are not answerable to the rank and file member. The system under which I, as a member of my union, voted to elect a general secretary of that union, irrespective of the part of the country in which I worked, is now gone. The Australian Workers Union can set up its collegiate system at its annual convention; it can elect Frank Mitchell, its general secretary, under its collegiate system and all the shearers, rural workers and other members of that union throughout this country no longer will have a vote as to who will be the general secretary of that union. Government members do not even know what they are doing. How stupid can they be? They should look again at the amendment. The controlled vote of one faction of a trade union will now be 15 per cent of the total college. I ask the Government to withdraw this amendment, to refer it to the Government members employment and industrial relations committee for consideration and to come back to this chamber with something sensible so that the unions may know what will happen as a result of this Government's actions. 
I commend the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  for raising what is a very important subject, namely, the quality of children's television; but if he analyses it a little further he may find that the monopoly of the media in Australia has a great deal to do with the quality of presentation on radio and television. I will be interested to hear his views tomorrow if he has the opportunity to take part in a debate on this subject. Our media are amongst the most monopolised in the world. There can be no argument about that. Many of us believe that the very poor quality of presentation, whether in newspapers or on radio or television programs, has a lot to do with the monopoly ownership of the various forms of media within Australia. 
There can be no doubt that it is the more legitimate complaint to talk about what is being served up for children, but everybody in Australia knows that if surveys are being taken of television stations at any given time the programs improve out of sight. In any State of Australia and in any capital city, on a Sunday night when surveys are being taken each station will have a good program, although for the next three or four weeks when there are no surveys we will be served up programs which have been shown on the various television stations up to 6 times. So, it is not just the children who are suffering from the presentation of programs by the media. Many people are suffering, and there is every need in Australia for us to demand an improvement in the presentation of programs at all levels. It has been left to the wife of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to draw attention to those programs which perhaps have so much impact upon the thinking of women in Australia, that is, talk-back programs. I do not think anybody in this House clings to programs of that type as his form of political guidance, but those programs do have a lot to say. They do have enormous audiences. No special training is required of those people who conduct the programs on which they give their opinions. While I am speaking of the forming of opinions among women let me say that I did not rise to speak tonight to be drawn into a debate about the media. I have had a great deal to do with it. I am very critical of it. 
No, I am not an expert on it as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs seeks to suggest; nor am I at its feet as are honourable members opposite because they become frightened at the mention of the names Murdoch, Fairfax and Jones. We are not intimidated by those names. We demand a greater performance from them. If we had the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States of America with respect to media owners in Australia, the people of Australia would not have as much to complain about as they do regarding the media. 
I rose tonight to speak about the shipbuilding industry. There have been certain leaks to the Press about what the Government is to do on this question. The latest leak from Cabinet is that it is going to give direct money grants to the shipbuilding yards. I do not think that this is a matter for laughter for the people of Newcastle and Whyalla who have to read bit by bit what the Government may be doing with their lives. Let me reiterate to Government supporters who may be serving on the various Government committees that they are gambling with 26 per cent of the work force in Whyalla and 4 per cent of the work force in Newcastle. I do not think it is very good government for the Government to hand out bits and pieces to the newspapers in the way in which we have seen occurring; I think that a definite statement ought to be made. 
The Government has had plenty of time in which to have reached a decision on the shipbuilding industry. That decision ought to have been made. Since we started the debate on the shipbuilding industry some months ago, and in the last fortnight, a poll of Australians has shown overwhelmingly that the Australian people would vote to keep the industry in Australia. The majority of those who gave that opinion were women; women more than men said that the shipbuilding industry ought to be retained in Australia. I believe that the way in which this matter is being handled in Australia at the moment is pretty sloppy government. We have had a couple of off the cuff statements in the Parliament by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and we have had complete evasion ever since. 
I want to make some comments this evening on the remarks of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  Although I do not agree with the sentiments he expressed, I do think he raised an important subject, one which could do with far more airing in the national Parliament. It has to do with the future population of Australia. Obviously Macquarie University has made a very wise decision in inviting  Dr Ehrlich  here because he has already provoked the raising of his name in the national Parliament. If people who are invited to Australia can wake us up a little to some of the problems with which we are going to be confronted in this country then their presence here ought to be welcomed. The type of sarcasm that was cast at  Dr Ehrlich  by the honourable member for Swan will not be accepted by the majority of people who follow the speeches and activities of  Dr Ehrlich  while he is in Australia. 
Conservation and population are extremely important issues, but they have only a fraction of the importance that they are going to have in 10 to 20 years' time. While some people might say that we should have less people in Australia than we have at the present time- the honourable member for Swan would say that we should have more- no one is quite sure of what is occurring. With great thanks to my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who has been doing a great deal of work on this matter following the report of the Borrie committee, I think it is about time that the national Parliament had a close look at what is going to happen to the population in Australia and perhaps give some guidance to it. According to the very simple formula that has been put to us about the population of Australia, if we maintain the 1973 Australian fertility rate and if we are able to achieve a net gain of 50 000 migrants a year between now and the year 2000, we will reach a population of only 17.6 million, not the 21 million which may have been projected 10 or 20 years ago. So our population is going to be far less than was predicted some years ago and the words of the honourable member for Swan are not going to change that. 
The other difficulty we are going to run into, of course, is that we cannot fill the boats with migrants as easily as we might have been able to do late in the 1940s, in the 1950s and the 1960s. Such a policy might not be as welcome these days as it was then. Of the 17.6 million an additional 480 000 are going to be over 65 years of age. An additional 48 per cent of our population will be living off social security. That will present an enormous problem to governments of the future in Australia and I do not believe that we are going to be able to convince people in Europe, from where our traditional migrants come, that it is a good thing to come here. Firstly, recent example has shown that most people who want to migrate from Europe prefer Canada to Australia. Secondly, many of the countries are facing exactly the same problems as we are going to face in maintaining a work force and they are intent on keeping people in their own countries. When someone says that  Dr Ehrlich  is mad, that he is wrong and that he should go home, I say that we should welcome  Dr Ehrlich  's presence here and argue with him if we think he is wrong. The way to end the argument is not the traditional Democratic Labor Party way of saying that people should not have the right to speak. 
In conclusion, I ask honourable members to remember that with the present birth rate in Asia there will be an additional 790 million people to our north. If the honourable member is worried about population, there will be a lot of problems in which he can share without saying that perhaps we should follow the same path. Governments of Australia are going to have sufficient problems without anyone saying that we should not have the debate, the controversy, the additional advice and the expertise of people with a reputation like that of  Dr Ehrlich. 
I do not wish to respond to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  Apparently he has had second thoughts about his speech last week. As he is a former shearer, one would have thought that he was better trained. We must have missed some of them. This week, obviously as will be known to all honourable members, thousands of Australians will take upon themselves their right to participate in demonstrations and to discuss in meetings the impact upon their future Lives as a result of the actions taken in this country just one year ago. I have seen many contributions to that debate and to what Australians might have to discuss in the future and about which parts of the Constitution may have to be amended to safeguard the rights of this House. A little while ago I was given the latest contribution to the debate, a book called  The Makers and the Breakers.  I do not wish to comment upon the authors' particular and specific comments about the events but it is interesting to note the way in which they have drawn together quotes of the people who drew up the Constitution. I think it is of interest when looking through these to see that obviously what happened last year in Australia was never seen as likely to happen by the people who framed the Constitution of Australia. 
There can be no doubt that whilst the demonstrations perhaps express the rage of the people, nonetheless there will have to be a very serious discussion in this country about the changes which are necessary to see that the House of Representatives, maintains its position as the governing House of Australia. Until such time as that debate is concluded satisfactorily to the House of Representatives no doubt we will see people in the Senate being quite cavalier about the way in which the powers in the Constitution may be interpreted and used by the Senate. Obiously it would mean that if that action was to be continued we could not look forward to a parliamentary democracy in Australia. As one of the founders of the Constitution said, there is a very thin line between what is right and revolution. I think that if honourable members opposite and honourable members on our side of the House were to sit down and look at the record of discussions that took place and the conference minutes of the framers of the Constitution they would see that what happened last year was not envisaged. I quote what Alfred Deakin had to say about the role of the Governor-General: 
A Governor-General will be required to act in this as in other matters on the advice of his executive. In no case is he to be endowed with the personal power to act over the heads of Parliament and the ministry. 
Obviously Deakin did not see the GovernorGeneral ever taking the decision which was taken in Australia in 1975.  Sir John  Downer, who was a very conservative politician in that day and age, had this to say: 
We are not prepared to interfere with the cardinal principle of our constitution, and that is that the nominal head of the Government should be only the nominal head of the executive and not become a real substantial legislative force in the community. 
If conservative politicians in that day and age like  Sir John  Downer held those views, again this is further evidence that what happened in Australia last year was wrong.  Dr Coburn,  who was also a participant in those discussions, had this to say: 
The Governor-General's highest function would be to be a dummy and although he was the only link between us and the Crown, in being that link he was less than the least in the whole of the colonies, a useless image and bauble. 
Finally, I wish to quote Alfred Deakin again on the question of the Governor-General. I want to repeat this because I think it is terribly important in terms of what discussions take place in Australia in the future. He said: 
The Governor-General will be required to act in this, as in other matters, on the advice of his executive. In no case is he to be endowed with the personal power to go over the heads of the Parliament and the Ministry. 
-I seek leave to make a statement. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked of him yesterday by the honourable member for Fremantle regarding comments made by Major-General Stretton. It is also supplementary to the question asked by the Leader of the Oppositon of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations regarding police inquiries into alleged Cabinet leaks. I ask the Prime Minister: Does he still stand by the statement he made on television last year, during the term of office of the former Labor Government, that in some circumstances public servants would be justified in leaking documents? 
-The Opposition is not opposed to these Bills. I should like to make some remarks concerning the provocation offered by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  when he spoke a few minutes ago; I shall be very brief. He accused the Opposition of not putting up speakers. It is not the practice of the Opposition to put up speakers merely for the sake of speaking. The Opposition has taken the attitude that members of the Opposition will speak on Bills which we consider important dealing with those areas in which we feel we ought to be expressing a view. However, we do not believe that it is in the interests of the Parliament or of the people merely to spend time speaking to Bills which concern procedural matters. If it is the wish of the Government that we put up more speakers, we can do that and thus delay the legislation and the rising of the House. The actions of the Opposition throughout the year have been to speak, when necessary on those matters, and on that legislation which is important to us. 
The Customs Amendment Bill is one of the matters which concern the rules of origin in the one-half area content whereby certain powers are being vested in the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  to be operated by his Department, which can be earned out, perhaps, without the information being passed on to the Parliament. There have been occasions when complaints have been received from industry about being left in the dark in relation to actions that have been taken by the Department without the Parliament being notified and, subsequently, without interested parties outside the Parliament being notified. I would have thought that whilst we agree, particularly in the case of Papua New Guinea, with giving the Minister discretion to waive the one-half rule, it is perhaps appropriate on occasions when that power is used for the Parliament to be notified. We have no objection at all to encouraging this discretion to be used in order to see that the economic independence of Papua New Guinea may be assisted. I just make those comments. Perhaps the Minister can take them into account when the discretionary power is used. Therefore, on behalf of the Opposition I put it to the House that we have no opposition to the Bills. 
I rise tonight to place on the  Hansard  record a very disturbing development which has come to the notice of people throughout Australia in the past week. I am referring to the confirmed authenticity of a letter that passed between the Federal  President  of the Liberal Party, R. J. Southey, and the then Prime Minister of Australia, the right honourable member for Lowe,  Mr William  McMahon. I raise the question because the letter seems to reflect the mentality of the Liberal Party and its relationship with and its interpretation of the role of the Press and other media in Australia. I think it is an opportune time to reflect on what  Mr Southey  had to say in his letter, in view of the attacks that have been made on the trade unions involved in working for the media and the attacks that are now being undertaken by this Government on the Australian Broadcasting Commission-thc only link in the media throughout Australia that it cannot conclusively control. I should like to relate to the House the letter written by  Mr Southey,  the Federal  President  of the Liberal Party, prior to the 1972 general election to the then Prime Minister. It stated: 
But may I direct attention to two or three things which at the moment seem to be particularly important? 
The first is the attitude of the Press. I want to say that, after mature reflection, I do not believe that the individual journalists are going to improve. People like Allan Barnes are coldly determined to destroy us, and I do not think that, however well we perform, they are going to alter their tune very much. The  Age  is having a very destructive effect in Victoria, and is much more bilious than most of the other Australian newspapers which I see. Unless the Editor of the  Age  can be persuaded to alter the tune, their attitude will be increasingly serious. I am unable to find out how the  Age  really works internally. Are you? Am I correct in assuming that Graham Perkin really calls the tune, and that Ranald Macdonald is little more than the creature of Perkin? What influence has Warwick Fairfax? I wish I could be of some help to you here, but frankly I am a babe in that sort of jungle, and all I am really sure of is that whoever the real enemy ls in the  Age,  and I think it is probably Perkin, he must be brought into line or circumvented. 
I am much less concerned about the  Herald  and the  Sun,  for the  Herald  is reasonably trustworthy, whilst Oakes of the  Sun  is less damaging than Barnes. I know that Henry Bolte has very strong links with the  Herald,  and I wonder whether you have spoken to Henry about this, or whether I ought to do so myself. In straightening out the Press, it is much more important that this should be done thoroughly, than that it Should be done in a hurry. 
If ever there was a sick letter written in Australia, this is it. The mentality of the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties is demonstrated in their not being able to have a proper relationship with the Press. They stand in this House day after day and year after year defending what they call the freedom of the Press yet freedom of the Press turns out to be Press that can be stood over by the Liberal Party- Press that will only reflect the views and attitudes of the Liberal Party. When members of the Liberal Party cannot deal with the people involved they have to be, as  Mr Southey  says, circumvented. Their attitude is that they have to talk to the proprietors. We saw a classic example of this in 1975 when we saw the role that Rupert Murdoch played in supporting the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser.  Again in 1972, as evidenced by  Mr Southey  's letter to  Mr McMahon,  he was going to circumvent the late  Mr Graham  Perkin as editor of the  Age  to try to see whether the  Age  could be brought into line- whatever it meant by bringing the  Age  into line. It only adds to the suspicion from this side of the House about what is going on in relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
What is the role of the Government in relation to the ABC? There can be no doubt that the attitude of the Liberal Party is that all the media in Australia must bow to the whims of the Liberal 
Party; the media in Australia must only reflect the wishes and whims of the Liberal Party. That is exactly what is happening with the ABC. The thousands of people who assembled throughout Australia yesterday and today realised exactly what the Government is up to because they have seen demonstrated to them in this letter between the  President  of the Liberal Party and the Liberal Prime Minister of Australia what the Liberal Party really interpret as freedom of the Press. That same mentality exists today. That same relationship between the Liberal Party and the proprietors of the Press of Australia is still maintained. No more letters may come to our attention because the Liberal Party may have learned its lesson. But there can be no doubt that the relationship which existed prior to 1 972 will continue to be maintained. 
-The Opposition welcomes the move by the Government to establish this select committee on tourism. We welcome the recognition by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  that it was moves from this side of the House which brought this committee into being. It has been because of the active participation in this House by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that we see some glimmer of hope for the tourist industry. I also pay due respect to the unwanted member of the Cabinet- as he was after the election last yearSenator Peter Rae because of the work he has contributed to the tourist industry of Australia. Nevertheless a number of things regarding the tourist industry have been ignored. We have ignored them for so long that perhaps this select committee can come up with some of the answers. I do not want to take up too much of the time of the House because following me will be honourable members to whose superior knowledge I bow- for example, the former Minister for Tourism and Recreation. It is the intention of the Opposition to move an amendment to paragraph 16 of the motion. In that paragraph the Government proposes that the committee should report as soon as possible. We on this side of the House believe that the date on which the committee should conclude its work should be stipulated. 
No shortage of information is available to people interested in the tourist industry. I understand that the honourable member for Lang will go through, item by item, the sorts of documents which have been made available or which were tabled during the period of the Whitlam Government. The recommendations and information made available to the people of Australia and to parliamentarians only need condensing for this committee to bring back a very swift report. A number of difficulties are associated with the tourist industry, and devaluation will not overcome all of them. The tourist industry is still finding it difficult, as are many other industries which depend upon such a large content of female labour, because of the decision taken by our industrial tribunals in relation to equal pay. About 62 per cent of the employees in the tourist industry are females. Obviously, because of the impact of that decision the tourist industry is taking some time to adjust. 
Also in Australia we have the unique position where our major international airline is spending its complete budget convincing people why they ought to leave Australia. Perhaps we should look at a combination of the roles of our airlines in the field of advertising. We should look at the roles of Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia and Qantas Airways Ltd. It seems rather ridiculous and a contradiction in terms for us to be looking at the tourist industry while we are contributing so much of the taxpayers' money to convincing those taxpayers that they would have a better time and that their money would be better spent outside this country. Obviously, that sort of thing would lend itself to very close investigation by this committee. I do not think that anybody in this Parliament would commence these hearings believing that any select committee of this Parliament will be successful in persuading all those Australians who might want to travel outside the country that it would be a good thing not to do so. What we need to do is to balance what has been occurring over the last three or four years in order that we can persuade a lot of Australian people who are going overseas on their holidays not for the first time but perhaps for the fifth or sixth time that it may be worth while to have some interest in parts of Australia which are unique by international standards and which would be very worth while seeing. 
I believe that a concentration on the importance of tourism inside Australia could bring this about. As I said earlier, there is a multiplicity of reports concerning this matter. There have been reports by the Industries Assistance Commission, the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Investigations have also been undertaken by interdepartmental committees. We are able to obtain all the information concerning this matter quickly. I believe that it would be in the interests of the tourist industry, which has suffered so much recently, for us to be able to stipulate a time when this Parliament would receive a report. It is for that purpose that I move: 
That paragraph (16) be amended by omitting the words as soon as possible' and substituting 'no later than 31 May 1977'. 
-The Opposition wishes to raise some questions about not only the clauses which the Government will seek to amend but also other provisions in the Bill. Before dealing with those matters, I turn to clause 5 which provides for the escalation of the ceiling from $20m to $30m. The Opposition has no objection to this proposal. We see this as a - 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. Today's  Daily Mirror- a.  newspaper which is always trying to denigrate parliamentarians- carries a sensational headline which reads 'Girl Strips before MPs'. As an MP in this Parliament I wish to make it clear that I was not present when any girl stripped in Parliament House, nor was any member of the Australian Labor Party. I understand all those present were members of the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
-Before commencing to comment on this Bill let me just say that the Opposition is becoming perturbed at the manner in which the administration of legislation is being handled in this House. For the third time in as many weeks the Opposition has been asked to break the normal procedures in dealing with legislation in that it has had to deal with amendments that have come into this House late, well after legislation has been presented. It ought to be understood that there has been some sort of convention about allowing an Opposition at least one week to look at the way in which governments will deal with legislation. In the case of the conciliation and arbitration legislation, the Aboriginal land legislation and now the legislation to amend the Prices Justification Tribunal Act we have been forced to consider amendments that have reached us very late in the legislative process. The Opposition registers its protest at this method of application because, as in the case of the 2 other pieces of legislation that I have mentioned in respect of which amendments were given to us late, the proposed amendments to the Bill before us are quite considerable in the intent of the way in which they propose to amend the Act. 
I think that the Government should be able to tidy up its method of dealing with these Bills and that the Opposition should be given the legislation in toto. If the legislation is not prepared properly and is not ready to be given to the Opposition it should be delayed until such time as it is complete. If this practice is adopted our committees will be able to deal with all the matters that will come up for debate. The Opposition was given the proposed amendments to the Prices Justification Amendment Bill yesterday. Opposition members who will follow me in this debate will deal with the ramification of those amendments. I will be dealing mainly with the effect of the social contract that may have been in existence in Australia prior to this legislation being introduced into the House. 
This Bill is opposed by the Opposition. The Government seems intent on hoisting on Australia some massive dose of economic madness. Whilst in the process of hurling abuse at the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government brings into this 
House legislation which in essence draws the teeth of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Devaluation will bring greater pressures on the wage and salary earners to attempt to keep up with massive price increases which will follow as a result ofthe increased price of imported goods. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the Government to explain how any social contract will continue in this country under such conditions? 
I want to pay some attention to the devaluation that has taken place subsequent to the introduction of this Bill. It is a pity that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has left the chamber because I am sure that he would be taking an interest in the impact of the 17 per cent devaluation upon the social contract, the inflation rate in Australia and the role of tribunals like the Prices Justification Tribunal in the present circumstances. I do not think that the impact of devaluation can be ignored in this debate. Instead of limiting the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal, whether it be in terms of staff, administration, public inquiries or whatever, the legislation should be extending the role enormously. We all should have learned the lesson of the tariff cuts that took place under the previous Government. At the time those cuts were made it was felt that considerable benefit would flow through to consumers in Australia. But we found that perhaps the importers were much smarter than the then Government in terms of marking up goods that were imported at the lower dutiable rate. Now we have the situation where, in Australia, we should have considerable stock which has been bought at the old price. But there will be an overlapping of the prices which should be paid now and the prices which should be paid on new goods which will have the 17.5 per cent added to the price, perhaps together with the freight rates which may be paid in some foreign currency, particularly United States dollars. As the Prices Justification Tribunal warned during the week, it should be given an increased role, a policeman's role, of seeing what will happen to consumers in this turnabout. 
A prediction was made a few weeks ago by a colleague of mine. He has received great blame for devaluing the dollar. All honourable members on this side of the House consider that to be absolute nonsense. He said that blind Freddie and his dog could see that the Australian dollar was overvalued and that action would have to be taken. If I can use the same phrase, I point out that blind Freddie and his dog can see that tariffs will have to be reduced. It is absolutely incredible that the Government has made the announcement on devaluation without accommodating action being taken on tariffs. While industries around Australia are perhaps welcoming this additional protection which has been given to them, they know as well as anybody else inside or outside this Parliament that they could not possibly go to the Industries Assistance Commission and seek that type of additional protection under normal circumstances. 
It is absolutely astounding why the Government has to make these decisions apart from each other- why this cannot be done in a package. The spin-off in not reducing the tariffs is, as we have seen demonstrated in the House this week, the belief that the Government by some magic wand will be able to convince the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Australian Council of Trade Unions that everybody should ignore the increased inflation rate which will occur in Australia because of devaluation and with no action being taken or tariffs. There are people with better knowledge than I in relation to the economic system which will apply in Australia over the next 12 months who say that under present circumstances devaluation could possibly add 4 per cent to 5 per cent to the expected inflation rate in this country. Are we to believe that the Government will convince the Arbitration Commission that the increased cost of living which has been bestowed on wage and salary earners in Australia through the increased cost of goods will be ignored, that the wage and salary earners have to take this drop in the living standards to overcome the problems? The answer is: Obviously not. 
If action is not taken on tariffs, if the Arbitration Commission is interfered with- perhaps in some subtle way this is inferred by Government spokesmen, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  we will have either an enormous inflation rate in Australia or a great industrial confrontation in 1977. The Government must know this. When the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  led the attack in the Government party room yesterday, honourable members should have listened. What he was saying is correct. I draw attention to what the Government is expecting. This is why I draw this matter into the discussion on the Prices Justification Tribunal. As far as we can see this is relevant. The reason for setting up the Tribunal was to try to build some sort of social contract in Australia. If the wage and salary earners are to go before the Arbitration Commission to justify their prices increases, why should not the employers or the manufacturers go before the Prices Justification Tribunal to justify their price increases? It seems to me that Government supporters want the best of both worlds. They not only want the Arbitration Commission to ignore the justice in the claims for keeping up with the consumer price index but also want to take away from the Prices Justification Tribunal its overseer role in looking at price rises in Australia. 
The action of the Government last week has only to be seen in the annual report ofthe Department of Overseas Trade for honourable members to understand what sort of effect it will have in Australia. The economist for the Adelaide  Advertiser,  Edward Nash, considers that imports could cost Australian purchasers or consumers an additional 22 per cent. If we look at the figures for the Department of Overseas Trade we find that in relation to the $8000m worth of goods which we import- if we add onefifth to that amount we take it up to almost $ 10,000m- we are asking consumers to bear the brunt of the additional cost of the present tariff level. At the same time we are saying that these people cannot be compensated through the Arbitration Commission. We are insisting that wage and salary earners go before the Arbitration Commission and we ignore the other end of the spectrum, namely, the justification of price increases. 
Many matters are involved in the amendments which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  brings before us today. One should trace the history of the Prices Justification Tribunal. My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  when he was Treasurer of this country in 1973, introduced a measure to establish the Prices Justification Tribunal and he made it quite clear then, as has been established subsequently in both speeches in this House and in the annual reports of the Prices Justification Tribunal, that the Tribunal was not established as a prices control body. Some people in Australia thought that it should have been. They thought that as far as possible we should have had a prices control body. But that is not why the Prices Justification Tribunal was established. It was established as a justification tribunal, pretty well along the same lines as the Wage and Salary Justification Commission. 
Now we see that amendments are brought in to try, in some way, to have the representatives of the trade unions and the white collar organisations believe that the Government has not gone back on its word, following the election, not to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. That was the promise given to supporters of the Liberal and National Country Parties during the election campaign. It was promised that the Prices Justification Tribunal would be abolished. Immediately after the election the Prime Minister found it convenient to bargain and barter with the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the basis that wage indexation would survive and that the Prices Justification Tribunal would survive. We see these amendments being brought in which will virtually destroy the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal. We have also seen the word of the Prime Minister on wage indexation destroyed because the Government has continuously been before the Commission arguing against the continuation of wage indexation. So wage and salary earners- the vast majority ofthe people and their dependants in this countrymust understand that what they are being asked to do in the latter half of this year and in the whole of 1977 is to take a massive drop in their living standards to prepare the way for this Government to be returned in 1978. 
One predicts with a certain amount of assuredness that this just will not work. It is absolutely impossible to do any arithmetic which will lead one to believe that the people of Australia will take a drop of 6 per cent or 7 per cent in their living standard during 1977. But that is what the Government is asking, if it is asking that the supervisory role of the Prices Justification Tribunal be taken away in looking at prices, in exposing price abuse, in holding public inquiries and in doing all those things which perhaps have had an impact on the ways in which these major companies carry on their business. The Tribunal has had a great effect upon those companies and upon the way in which they manage their business. It has meant that in many ways they have changed their procedures within the company in order to meet the demands ofthe Prices Justification Tribunal. Just as the investment allowance was a flop, in terms of talking about an economic recovery this matter will also be a flop. In the last week in particular this Government has gone mad. As I said earlier, we can expect another major decision on tariffs, otherwise the inflation rate and the cost of living in this country will soar. I shall cite, on some commodities, a few figures which were exposed in the newspapers during the week. Perhaps people do not understand what this Government is asking consumers to do. Twenty per cent of the motor vehicles sold in Australia are fully imported- that is, about 140 000 motor vehicles from overseas are sold in this country. 
Let me point out the way in which the cost of living in this country will be affected. Not only will the price of imported motor vehicles jump by about 20 per cent but without the Prices Justification Tribunal it will be a fairly simple process for local manufacturers to lift their prices to near the mark of the imported product. That will be the spin off from taking away the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Let us have a look at some of these prices. The Chrysler Lancer, an imported car, which now sells for $4,386 will be $5,307 under the new valuation rates. The Datsun 260Z costs $8,909 at the moment and will cost $10,769. The Fiat 128 which is now $4,657 will be $5,634. The Peugeot 504 costs $9,189 at present and will cost $11,130. The Saab 99, which is a popular imported car, costs $10,401 and will cost $12,585. People can get some idea from those motor vehicle prices of what will hapen with all the other commodities. As I said, 8,000m worth of goods are corning into this country from overseas and, when the old stock runs out, they will be 20 per cent more expensive. That will mean a great hike in the inflation rate in this country. Obviously some action has to be taken in regard to tariffs. 
The Prices Justification Amendment Bill cannot be seen in isolation. It must be seen in the context of the decisions taken by the Government in relation to the PJT in the 1976-77 Budget. This Bill must also be seen as the second step along the road to the announced Liberal Party policy of abolition of the PJT. The Lynch Budget sealed the fate of the PJT, the only price monitoring body in Australia. Salary appropriations were slashed by 10 per cent in real terms. Administrative cost appropriations were cut by 32 per cent in real terms. A deliberate policy was introduced to reduce further the number of inquiries undertaken by the Tribunal. 
This Bill confirms the real desire of the big business supporters of the Liberal and Country Parties. They were the people who required the Prime Minister to pledge the abolition of the PJT in return for their financial support for the coalition in last year's election campaign. Now they have realised the effect that carrying out this pledge would have in industrial relations terms. They realise that it would demonstrate to all that what business wants in this country is to freeze wages and free prices and profits. The Tribunal itself in its recent annual report recognised these motivating forces. Acknowledging that it has been a natural target for criticism, it said on page 121: 
Some of the criticisms did not go to the nature of the Tribunal 's operation, but appeared to be mainly motivated by sectional considerations. 
These sectional interests, supported by the Government, have thus devised the indirect approach- slow suffocation rather than the immediacy ofthe guillotine. But the fact remains that the real intention of these amendments is to confirm the uneven 'social contract' which the Government is imposing on wage and salary earners. Side by side with the National Employers Policy Committee, the Australian Government breasts the bar of the Arbitration Commission to argue for a reduction in real incomes for wage and salary earners, while in the privacy of the boardrooms and in thinly veiled legislation such as this, business is advised that with profits and prices they can ' let it rip '. 
This Bill is further evidence of the Fraser Government's willingness to bow to narrow sectional interests. It has done it for the graziers with the superphosphate bounty and for the doctors with Medibank, and now it is doing it for the wealthiest companies in Australia. On the question of devaluation, time and again we have been told that the mining interests and the exporting primary producing sections were carrying an uneven share of the burden in our economy. There are more people unemployed in Australia today than work in the mining industry. What about their share of the burden? What is happening about putting them back to work and doing something for them rather than worrying about the mining interests or some sections of the rural industries which we are told are carrying an unfair share of the burden? 
There can be no doubt that the Tribunal has been successful in limiting price increases and there can be no doubt that this is the real reason for this legislation. The  Federal Law Review  in June 1975 declared that the PJT occupied a unique place in the development of Australia's legal and economic systems. The PJT itself estimated that it saved the Australian consumer $235m in its first year of operation. This is the answer to the spurious claim of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs that his amendments will allow the PJT to concentrate more on eliminating price abuse. The PJT has already dealt effectively with price abuse. There is no way known that it can be 'more effective' with a reduced staff, reduced funds and restricted terms of reference. The proposed changes may satisfy the whims of 1 per cent of the biggest companies in Australia, but they will not deal with price rises by the thousands of small businesses which live by purchasing goods and materials from large companies. 
The Minister is dishonest in speaking of 'public submission' on the future of the Tribunal. The Government took submissions from the public when reviewing the PJT legislation but it has never made those submissions public. There is no evidence to support the Minister's assertion that most of the submissions sought changes in the Tribunal. There is no evidence of any duplication of functions between the PJT, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission. The IAC looks at the problems of industries as a whole; the PJT looks at particular companies. The Minister also refers to consultations which have taken place with the trade union movement, but in the same breath he makes it clear in his second reading speech that the changes contained in the Bill reflect the decisions taken by the Government. Token consultation was all that was involved. 
It is naive for the Minister to claim that because 90 per cent of notified price increases have been approved there is a 'high level of price responsibility' among Australian business. The impact of the PJT extends far beyond the 10 per cent of price increases which are disallowed. Business generally has been restrained from raising prices unnecessarily through the mere existence of the PJT. The fact that companies have had to go before it and justify their proposals has forced them to look more critically at their operations and their responsibilities to the public. The annual report ofthe PJT for 1975-76 underlines this point. At page 1 1 the report states: 
Since the beginning of its operations on 1 August 1973 the Tribunal has processed 19 100 notices of higher prices; 3859 in 1973-74, 7502 in 1974-75 and 7739 during 1975-76. 
Over the same period, the Tribunal has held 53 public inquiries; 15 in 1973-74, 33 in 1974-75 and 5 during 1975-76. 2757 notices of proposed higher prices received over the period were either withdrawn by companies or were varied to provide for lower prices than those originally proposed, following inquiries by the Tribunal and discussions with the companies concerned. The numbers of notices withdrawn or amended was 457 in 1973-74, 1 181 in 1974-75 and 1 1 19 in 1975-76. 
Quite clearly, many millions of dollars of 'excessive' price rises have been involved in these applications. Recognition of this factor has forced companies to modify their price demands. The Government is proposing that these requirements be eased. Its attitude on modification of price demands is markedly different from its attitude on modification of wage demands. The Government proposes that the PJT exempt from price justification those industries in which there is 'significant and effective competition'. This proposal begs the question of how the degree of competition is to be assessed. Would it be on an industry-by-industry basis after suitable public inquiries? This implies a very long selection process. It also implies consequent injustice to those arbitrarily placed at the end of the queue. Would the Trade Practices Commission be required to provide its assessment of the degree of competition in each industry by way of an analysis of cleared or authorised restrictive practices, and the apparent level of unauthorised and illegal practices, in that industry? Or would a very large cross section of industry be arbitrarily selected on the basis of concepts such as the number of competing firms in the industry, the level of imports or the recent history of price increases of the overall level of profits to be used as criteria. 
Concepts of competition are difficult to define. It is well recognised that under normal business conditions a fairly hig' degree of price leadership prevails in Australia and it is very unusual for a firm with substantial capital assets to cut prices so as to increase significantly its share of the market, thereby obtaining increased production and economies of scale with a rationalised range of products. Competition tends to be soft competition and price cuts are usually muted by descriptions such as 'specials' for a limited period with a subsequent return to the recommended retail price. 
Like the Budget strategy, the real aims of this legislation remain unstated. Any examination of the Government's words and actions in recent months leads to the inevitable and now widespread conclusion that the Government's desire to increase the profits of its business supporters is to be achieved at the expense of wage and salary earners. Certainly, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has made no attempt to hide the fact that he expects wage earners to carry the major burden for the fight against inflation through deliberately increased unemployment and cuts in real wages, on the one hand, and devaluation, on the other hand. The winding back of consumer incomes is certainly not likely to generate a consumer led recovery. Consumers cannot spend more when their wages have been slashed through the imposition of the Medibank levy and higher taxes or when their jobs are threatened by company crashes and closedowns and when prices are increased by the effects of devaluation. No matter how high profits are allowed to go, business will not invest unless consumers have the ability and the desire to buy the new products produced. 
Capital investment is now declining rapidly and, in real terms, is already less than the quarterly levels existing at the end of 1972. The windfall double depreciation and investment allowance package in the first half of this year did not achieve the take-off of investment demand, the increased employment and the boost to consumer spending predicted of it by the Government. Part of the reason for the failure of that package was, of course, the fact that this Government had deliberately set out to reduce spending power for wage and salary earners. The Government has stated that the key to its desired economic recovery is a return to pre- 1 972 levels of the relative share of gross non-farm domestic product going to capital and labour. There is no particular reason advanced for this thesis. The Government may say that the tribunal will have greater capacity to use its resources to investigate those areas where there is evidence of price abuse, but the facts belie the statement. At page 7 of its report, the Tribunal alludes to this contradiction when it says: 
The refilling of any staff vacancies has also been particularly difficult due to the uncertainty about the tribunal's future operations. 
Later the report states: 
Such a climate was hardly conducive to the efficient operation of the Tribunal and was particularly unsettling from the point of view of policy development. 
It is clear that the Tribunal is destined to be reduced to a pale shadow of its former self and will simply monitor price increases, rather than force companies to justify them. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  says as much in his statement. In congratulatory terms he records that the 'cumulative purpose of the changes is to bring about a very significant reduction in the number of companies which must notify the Tribunal of their price increases' with a view to the Tribunal's principal function being that of 'price surveillance rather than price approval'. 
Already companies are refusing to co-operate with the Tribunal by refusing or delaying the supply of requested statistical information. The effects of the Government's proposed changes will be to enable price increases for goods and services to flow back and forth between industries until they appear in the consumer price index. At that time, as we all know, the Government will attempt to stop the key supplier of servicesthe labour force- obtaining its price increase. Thus, the Government's policy is clearly one in which productivity gains are to be considered from now on as the exclusive reward of the business sector. There are many other areas which the Opposition will discuss during the Committee stage. My colleagues who speak after me will expose what the Government is doing at this end of the spectrum on the question of price increases by manufacturers and businesses in Australia. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. It supplements the earlier question asked by the honourable member for Moore. By what amount will the cost of imports increase without tariff reductions? What effect will that cost increase have upon the cost of living in Australia? Is it the intention of the Government to prevent wage earners from receiving wage increases to offset these cost increases? Finally, to offset this economic madness, would not the 
Treasurer agree that the simplest solution would be to reduce tariffs? 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. Will the splitting of Treasury automatically lead to a more efficient handling of the economy, or is the decision to split Treasury just a move to get square with Treasury for the Cabinet leak regarding the Prime Minister's attitude to devaluation, as reported by Kenneth Davidson in the Melbourne  Age  of 10 November? 
-Just one week ago a number of honourable members on this side of the House and one right honourable member on the other side of the House, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  predicted that this decision would have to be taken and taken quickly. This decision obviously should have been made with the decision to devalue. It is not a decision we support but, with the devaluation, any reasonable person would have suggested to the Government that this decision had to be taken, but not in this form. Nevertheless the decision has been taken and it warrants some comment from the Opposition. 
The Liberal Government made its grab for power on the basis that it could provide the economic management which Australia needed to meet the problems of inflation and unemployment. It claimed that these problems were the results of mismanagement by the Australian Labor Party Government. These problems which Australia faced in 1974-75 were a reflection of the state of our principal trading partners. These problems are still faced by Australian industry. Where is the Government's White Paper arising from the Jackson Committee report on manufacturing industry which would show Australian industry the means by which it could arrest its competitive decline? 
There can be no doubt that devaluation has removed many manufacturing industries from the grey area of uncertainty which existed prior to the Government's announcement. As I have stated on many occasions, it was not the sole responsibility of wage and salary earners to accept the burden of getting industry out of its plight. The Government is always keen to name those whom it says are carrying an unfair share of the economic burden. Then the Government mentions the mining companies and great rural interests. 
On our side of the House we believe that those, who through government policies have lost thenjobs or the school leavers who have no hope of finding a job, are the people carrying an unfair burden. One might ask: How does this spate of  ad hoc  economic decision making affect the livelihood of the working people of this country. Devaluation has been exposed as a grossly incorrect economic decision. It is further exposed as such when now, 9 days later, we are debating a further decision on tariffs and revaluation. 
The tariff question should have been thought out before devaluation. If devaluation were necessary it should have been announced at the same time to avoid the mass confusion which has arisen. Devaluation, of course, in essence means the following to Australian industry: Substantial increase of protection for Australian industry; those industries using imported materials and components will have to adjust to the cost impact of those imported goods; and exports of manufactured products will become more competitive. Other countries such as the United Kingdom which have recently devalued will still offer strong competition but our industries should compete on more favourable grounds with countries such as Japan and the United States. When one looks at the nominal rate of protection from 1968-69 to 1974-75 and then looks at the impact that devaluation has had upon those rates, one can readily ascertain the gigantic hike in tariffs which takes place following such a massive devaluation. 
In 1 968-69 the average rate of tariff was 24 per cent. In 1974-75 it was 17 per cent. To get the same effect as a devaluation of  IVA  per cent a tariff rate of 17 per cent would have to be increased to 42 per cent. For instance, to use the figures of the relevant Department, a 10 per cent tariff rate following upon the 17&amp; per cent devaluation goes to 33 per cent; 20 per cent goes to 45 per cent; 30 per cent goes to 57V4 per cent; 40 per cent goes to 70 per cent; and 50 per cent goes to 82 per cent. As I have stated previously, the gains are greatest immediately. But there are many factors which could quickly alter that position such as other currency changes, increases in local costs, inflation rates, and policies of countries exporting to Australia. Let us look at local costs. Some industry associations have been opposed to any change to tariffs following devaluation. They see this as a time to adjust and to consolidate. However, the longer cuts are put off the sooner the enormous increase in the cost of our imports will be channelled into the consumer price index. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that it would be difficult to quantify the change in the CPI following devaluation. However, a jump in the inflation rate of about 5 per cent could be expected during 1 977. 
I pose the question to those industries opposed to tariff alterations: Are they prepared to live with an inflation rate of between 16 per cent and 18 per cent and meet their responsibilities in accepting full indexation? To people connected with the trade unions who believe that it is good to hand out additional massive doses of protection, I say that nothing will save their jobs if the inflation rate, coming as a result of devaluation, is not reined in. In selected areas of industry, of course, there were problems of adequate protection. If the Government had had any brains at all this situation would have been recognised months ago. Nine days ago we had devaluation. Today we have selective tariff cuts. Some time in the future we will have the White Paper on manufacturing industry. If this is the sort of Government process, thought up by the Government to build business confidence, I will have to say that business is easily pleased. 
In this exercise it is not only the general tariff rate which comes up for discussion. In some industry fields there are quotas and restrictions which apply over roughly 25 per cent of our manufacturing industry. It is inconsistent to say, as the Minister said in his statement: 
As from tomorrow, 8 December 1976, quantitative restrictions on completely built up passenger motor vehicles and tariff quotas on completely knocked down passenger motor vehicles will be removed. 
Then two paragraphs later he said:  the Government reaffirms its policy that about 80 per cent of the domestic markets will be preserved for the local industry. 
I wonder how long this decision of the Government will last, in view of the decisions that have been taken by Nissan and Toyata motor companies to become involved in manufacturing in Australia. The second paragaph on page 98 of the Industries Assistance Commission report on passenger motor vehicles says: 
The evidence available indicates very high levels of cost disadvantage against Japan and lower levels of disadvantage against the USA and Europe. Cost disadvantages against vehicles produced in Japan, excluding freight to Australia, ranged from about 70 per cent to over 100 per cent on small light cars, between 80 and 85 per cent on large light cars, and approximately 45 per cent on medium cars. 
It is obvious from that statement and from the work of the IAC that this is another Government decision that will have to be reversed in 9 days' time because I do not know how the Government is going to maintain 80 per cent of the local market for local manufacturers and lift the restrictions on the quotas if Nissan and Toyata can effectively stay off-shore and more than compete with the local manufacturing industry without those quotas and restrictions. The first people who will be found on the Government's doorstep tomorrow will be the industry leaders, the trade unions and Premiers of those States that have those massive industries. They will be telling the Government that this is another decision that has to be reversed. Clearly it is one that has not been thought out by the Government. 
I turn now to monochrome television. Will someone from the other side please tell me how this decision will affect the local industry? In cost saving terms, the decision on monochrome television is in keeping with the Government's recent economic decisions- it is absolutely laughable. Footwear, clothing, textiles and domestic appliances, unaffected by tariff reductions, will add enormously to the cost of living in Australia. Unless people anticipated devaluation- that would not have been difficult- those goods already on the water will cost consumers dearly. Let me repeat that a 35 per cent tariff applying before devaluation now becomes effectively approximately 65 per cent. Some of the industries which I have mentioned are in that category. 
I want to refer also to the remarks of the Minister because they are interesting inasmuch as some other policies are concerned. I was very pleased to hear so many honourable members opposite saying 'hear, hear' when the Minister announced that the Government would be quick to act on those firms who used the advantages of devaluation to add to any wage settlements other  than wage indexation. I wonder whether we are going to see another indexation or wage packet coming from this Government. Let us look at some of the things that have been said. If it had not been said here tonight one would only have had to follow the Government's recent announcement to realise that the following words should be written into anything the Government has said: 
The Government has taken these concessionary measures as part of its economic package in order to modify possible cost increases and emphasises that the reduced rates are provisional. 
Then follows the big question mark hanging over all the industries, all of our trading partners and all the people who are involved: 
The rates may be confirmed or adjusted in the light of future circumstances. 
The Minister told us in his statement that 900 items out of a total of 2750 are affected, and that imports of goods covered by these proposals total about $ 1,800m. That is just a little less than 25 per cent of our total imports. Let us do some quick arithmetic on what this will cost the consumer. The Government should realise that once the increased cost of the other 78 per cent of our imports is channelled into the cost of living in Australia the Government will be facing not only a massive increase in inflation in 1977 but also, unless it accepts wage indexation, major industrial upheaval. 
In conclusion I draw the attention of honourable members to that part of the Minister's statement which said: 
I should make it very clear that the Government would be extremely concerned if any sections of manufacturing industry were to apply the benefits of devaluation towards wage settlements outside indexation principles. 
I would like some honourable members opposite who have some influence- there do not appear to be any sitting there tonight- to tell me whether the Government will abide by indexation, because in an earlier part of the Minister's statement he said that one of the things which the Government has done is to carry out this review on the basis of a pre-election promise. It also had a pre-election promise to abide by wage indexation. If the Government is going to thrust all these additional cost burdens on the consumers of Australia and is then going to go to the wage fixing tribunal and say 'we will not abide by indexation' it is obviously heading for industrial upheaval which it will not be able to handle. I am pleased to see in this statement that the Government is saying that as long as the wage settlements are on the basis of indexation it will accept them. We should remember that the prediction for the December quarter is for an increase in the vicinity of 5 per cent. So we expect the Government of Australia to go to the wage fixing commission and say: 'We support wage indexation. We do not want additional advantages ' - 
-The Minister says that I do not understand the principle. This Government has had a principle every 12 months to suit its own terms of reference. The fact is that the credibility of the Government has been completely destroyed. No one believes it. The poor Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  had to front up on a television program last night, and no one believed him, because the credibility of the Government has been completely destroyed. We see it here again. The Government says that it will not allow devaluation advantages to add to any spiral of wages. The Opposition supports indexation. We are asking the Government to do the same. Then the 
Government says, almost laughingly, that if other action has to be taken on prices it will refer it to the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Prices Justification Tribunal exists in name only, and the Government knows that as well as I do. That was another one of its pre-election promises- to abandon the concept of the Prices Justification Tribunal. So that reference to the Prices Justification Tribunal does not in any way submerge the massive incompetence of this Government in economic management, particularly over the past fortnight. 
Time and again it has been exposed, not just by this side of the House but by many of its own side. As one honourable senator on the Government side said today: 'If Labor had the majority in the Senate it ought to throw the Government out'. This has been a case of massive mismanagement. Here again the Government is telling the motor vehicle industry in particular, the one large industry affected by the statement, that it will not be able to continue - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
-After listening to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  what can one say? All this year I have taken the opportunity in my role as shadow Minister in this area to speak in debates before the honourable member. Today I took the liberty to speak after him. I think that is probably one of the best speeches the honourable member has made all year. On some occasions when he has spoken I have had to leave the chamber to attend committees or to do something else. I have enjoyed listening to him today. If the honourable member thinks that the talk about tariff cuts stirs up the nervous Nellies amongst supporters of the Government, as he described them, I suggest that he should ask them how they feel about increasing interest rates. He will find that it is usually the same group of people. If it is true that there were nervous Nellies among the supporters of the previous Government, only the faces have changed. The same number are still on the other side. We will have to put up with the same problems. 
I do not want to see out my years in the Parliament battering away at the walls as the honourable member for Wakefield has done. Obviously, he puts forward lots of views to which some of us in the Parliament-from both sides- listen, although I am not too sure about honourable members from the Government side who will speak after him. I think they may have views different from those of the honourable member for Wakefield. The Government, of course, has avoided the problem. Over and over again it raises the issue of devaluation. There can be no camouflaging of the effects not so much of the statement which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  made last night but of the Government's decision on tariffs. There can be no doubt that earlier predictions about the effect of devaluation on inflation still exist. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has continually said that he cannot quantify them. All of us could say without fear of contradiction that the effect of devaluation on inflation will be substantial. 
Although the fact is that tariffs may have been removed from a small portion of our imports, overwhelmingly the cost input is still there and the consumers in Australia will have to meet it. The missing link from the contribution of the honourable member for Wakefield to these debates of course is the structural adjustment element which is required with tariff reform. In the safe seat of Wakefield with every little industry, sometimes one can take liberties which are a little foreign to the problems than can be taken by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  who sits beside the honourable member for Wakefield. I am sure that the honourable member for Kingston would not be at liberty to say some of those things about industry and what could and could not be done in Australia. The honourable member would find that to express a view like that would bring him into conflict with the views which may be held by the manufacturers and the workers at Chrysler Australia Ltd. 
I think that we have probably had as many discussions on tariffs this year in the Parliament as we have had in most years. I cannot go back too many years but 1976 seems to have been a good year in that people have been given the opportunity to discuss these questions. I would think that the honourable member for Wakefield and others would have had their fill in relation to tariffs for the year 1 976. But be that as it may, it is impossible to talk about the need for reform if we do not talk about structural adjustment. If we talk about stuctural adjustment we are talking about industry as a whole and about the absence of the White Paper. As I said last night, until we can discuss all these matters there will be a great fear among the working people of this country that tariff reform merely means that they will lose their jobs. If that is the fear which is held by working people in this country, tariff reform will never come about because governments will never have the courage to introduce reforms. It seems to me to be such a simple exercise for us in Australia to come up with the design to look after those people who lose their jobs and perhaps the manufacturers who may have to be shifted or, in some cases, closed down. I think it is important always when discussing what may be the problems of high tariff in Australia also to discuss the welfare and the wellbeing of the people who are involved and affected by decisions which are taken by governments 
Far too often these things are ignored. I reiterate what the honourable member for Wakefild said about the 25 per cent tariff cut. For honourable members in the House who take some interest in the matter I suggest that they should forget forever trying to say that the 25 per cent tariff cut completely dismantled Australian industry. At the same time as the 25 per cent tariff cut took place there was such a thing as structural adjustment. People could apply for their full wage for 6 months if the employer signed a document stating that the employee had lost his job as the result of the tariff cuts. Very few people were paid their full wage. There were very few people for whom the employer was prepared to sign the document saying that they had lost their employment as a result of the 25 per cent tariff cut. It did not put 100 000 people out of work. It did not put 10 000 people out of work. It put perhaps a few hundred people out of work. It is nonsense to go on saying that the 25 per cent tariff cut had that sort of impact. All honourable members have to do is read the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission, and argue with that. 
It is true and it has been said from this side of the House on a number of occasions. It is so much hogwash for the Government continually to use the 25 per cent tariff cut as the basis for saying that the Opposition does not think about the welfare of industry or the people who work in it. What the Government is saying is so much nonsense. In the past fortnight we have become accustomed to listening to Ministers telling us that there are 4 arms of the economy with which they are dealing. They say.'This is one arm. That is another arm.' and finally the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  get on to the wages arm. As the honourable member for Wakefield has pointed out, what can the Government do in the field of wages? Obviously it is in a quandary as to the attitude it should adopt at national wage case hearings. It takes the view that one of the ways to overcome the problems is to see that wage increases are kept to an absolute minimum. 
Let me cite the figures of Professor Henderson. He says that the poverty line for a man and his wife with 2 children going to a man and his wife with 4 children with the wife not working can go from $120 to $140 a week, averaged throughout Australia. There will be some slight variation depending on the location, but that is a very high amount. Professor Henderson says that that is the poverty line. How on earth can the Government convince the wage and salary earners of Australia that the way out of this economic malaise is for the working people to accept all the burden? Devaluation was extremely generous to some of the vast mining companies in this country. People read in the newspapers about the advantages that flow to those companies as a result of devaluation and they wonder why the Government can say to them: 'You are not going to get $3 or $4 a week increase at the national wage case hearing because we believe that if we can convince the Commission that you should accept less the country will be better off'. At the same time they are reading that devaluation can take the profit of the Utah Development Co. for this year, if it is converted, from $132m to $179m. It seems to me that the argument is balanced all one way. 
Obviously, as Bob Hawke has pointed out on a number of occasions on behalf of the trade unions, if indexation is destroyed at the Arbitration Commission we will go back to the old system under which the strongest unions can get the increases they desire and the unorganised workers- the other 30 per cent or 40 per cent of the work force which is not organised into associations or trade unions- will miss out. Perhaps that is the Government's purpose. Perhaps it would prefer some of the strong unions to be able to bargain their way out of the problems while a substantial number of wage and salary earners stay as they are. It is the system that applied for a long period of history before national wage case hearings in Australia. People talk about the problems which industry faced in 1974 and 1975. Let me remind them of what was considered to be a substantial wage lift in 1974. The substantial wage lift at that time was the $24 rise. Earlier in the year the metal workers received $15 and later in the year they received $9. In between those 2 hearings the transport workers received $24. 
All the blame is apportioned to the trade unions for receiving those increases in salaries. Most of those decisions were given by wage fixing tribunals. In other cases, because industries were doing so well out of what they considered to be the economic boom, there was very little dispute about what was then considered to be a quite massive wage increase flowing right through industry. So industrial relations, in terms of bargaining, almost disappeared. But why the Government blames the trade unions more than it is prepared to blame industry astounds me. Industry gave the increase because it considered that it could afford it. The wage fixing tribunals gave it. It was not just a case of the trade unions going out on long strikes or industrial struggles to achieve it. It was given as soon as it was asked for. The blame, if there is any blame, for the jump in wages that occurred in 1974 belongs to the community. It belongs to both sides of industrial relations. As we know, there is no benefit in wage earners receiving wage increases of that size at a time of inflation, which bring about higher inflation, because they lose the value of them. So 1974 was a particularly important year as far as industrial relations were concerned, but it was not the fault of the unions that those wage increases were handed out. 
I want to refer to a couple of other matters in relation to our industries. I have spoken very briefly about structural adjustment. I think that that is one of the important matters that have to be looked at by the Government. It certainly is being looked at by an Opposition committee, to see what we can do and how we can encourage the adjustment that must take place in this country in view of what may occur, particularly in relation to our educational standards and our population, between now and the year 2000. There is nothing magical about the year 2000; it just happens to be a convenient time scale on which to work, in view of the long term policies that are required for industry in this country. Continually we hear talk of companies in this country going off-shore and the suggestion that all the problems of the companies that go offshore are the problems of high wages. It is not quite as simple as saying that wages are the only things that are driving companies overseas. 
Many companies in Australia have gone overseas willingly. There is no way that we can discuss rationally Australian industry competing with the industries to the north of this country. To speak of it as if we could wave a magic wand and get the textile industries, the shoe industries and perhaps some of the component parts of the car industry back into Australia is to talk nonsense. It cannot be done. 
Many of the countries to our north are making provisions and doing everything in their power to attract industries. There are many other alternatives under which companies operate overseas and under which they cannot operate here. I refer particularly to the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Trade Practices Commission and some of the other mechanisms which government can put into being here but which do not operate in countries such as Taiwan, Singapore or South Korea. Obviously when they look at their own countries or regions they find that not only do they have an enormous work force now but also by the year 2000- the magical yearthey will have another 800 million people. Are we expected to say that we will do what we can to see that they cannot get jobs? It is not just industries from Australia that go into those countries. Industries from all the developed countries are in those areas. Industries in the United States of America go across the border into Mexico or Canada. That is a phenomenon that has come out of all the developed countries. So, to talk about being able to prevent it with some magical solution is nonsense. Things will change, as everybody says and as all the Government departments say whenever they provide the Government with any sort of document. It is a question of finding the solution in order to accept change. It is a question of taking away the fear that people have of losing their jobs and living on the dole. It seems to me that we should have reached the stage where we can overcome these problems. 
It is not a question either of just using the old cliche that we believe in a strong, viable manufacturing industry. Nobody can explain or interpret that cliche. No one is quite sure what it means. To the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  a strong viable manufacturing industry relates to all the industries that are in the electorate of Indi. I suspect that if I used that term people would say I was referring to all the industries that are in Port Adelaide. If the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  used the term he would be held to mean all the industries in Brisbane. 
The fact is that change will occur. We are put here to try to find some solution to the problem, to see how people accept the change in the best interests of Australia and to develop industries which have a long term future. 
The only industries that will perhaps have a long term future are those industries which have natural protection or perhaps can be built up as an industry exporting to those regions to the north of us. I think that we have had a reasonably good year for tariff debate. I am sorry that the year ended with a statement from the Government on Pearl Harbour Day. Nevertheless, 1977 may be a better year for us. 
I second the motion. The mover of the motion, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  has concentrated mainly upon the first 3 matters mentioned in his motion. I want to pay attention to the final two, that is, the funding of political parties and the recognition of political parties. It is a subject about which the Labor Party has made continuous proposals over the last 4 years. It is a subject about which it gave the Government an opportunity to grasp the nettle this year and to do something about this matter in the form of legislation. Again, before this House rises, the Opposition asks the Government to take action at least to appoint a select committee to look at these questions involving the very basis of the operation of political parties in the Parliament, the funding of political parties and the operations of the Electoral Office. It seems strange to members of the Opposition that while the Government has been able to set up committees on a variety of subjects, the latest of which is concerned with tourism, there is always this great reluctance on the part of the Liberal and National Country Parties to look at the question of the funding of political parties, the funding of candidates and the recognition of political parties. 
One can only assume that the Liberal and National Country Parties have a great deal to hide about the way they receive their funds and the way in which they are funding their political campaigns. The position in Australia is becoming quite frightening considering the amounts of money that are required for respective elections. It is not just for one election that comes along occasionally. Whilst we separate elections of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the amount of money required by each of the candidates and by all parties in each of the States, taking into account the State elections as well, is becoming enormous. Honourable members know from their own individual experiences or from experiences with the campaign committees of our respective parties, that the amount of money being raised now is an amount which is not recognised by the public. The general public in Australia does not realise the amount of money that is spent on campaigns. There is no effort made by any authority in Australia to try to ascertain the amount of money being spent. As I have said previously in debates concerning this matter, the only way that we can perhaps get some idea of the amount of money being raised is through the annual report of the Broadcasting Control Board when that annual report covers the period of an election. Then we can find out how much money each of the political parties has spent on television and radio. 
In 1974 we saw that the Liberal and National Country Parties spent something like $1.4m on radio and television. In 1975, as a result of having witnessed the campaign by the LiberalNational Country Parties, it would be no exaggeration to say that they had millions of dollars available to conduct their election campaigns. People are entitled to know what amount of money is being spent on elections in Australia and they are entitled to know where that money comes from. The day before yesterday in the Melbourne  Age,  it was stated that the devaluation of the Australian dollar means a hand-out to the Utah Mining Co of approximately $35m in a full year, based on last year's production figures. The Opposition would like to know whether Utah is a major contributor to the financial pockets of the Liberal and National Country Parties. It has been the understanding in Australian political circles that the mining companies, the banks and some of the larger financial institutions are the big backers behind the coalition parties. The people in Australia are entitled to know what is going on. Otherwise we will run into the same sort of difficulties faced by other countries. 
The Opposition is asking the Government to set up a select committee to investigate this matter. We will not reach any conclusions by merely conducting a debate in the House. We will reach conclusions only if a committee of the Parliament is set up to look at all these questions. The Opposition is asking this Government to do exactly the same as nas been done in Sweden, Norway, Finland, Germany and the United Kingdom. All of these countries have set up committees of their respective parliaments to look at these questions. In every case the committees of those parliaments have recommended in their reports that the funding of political parties be met mainly by the State, that the Governments themselves pay out the moneys that are needed for the political parties to conduct their campaigns. They have recommended that these moneys be based on the percentage vote which parties received at the previous one or two elections. If all those countries are reaching those conclusions, what is wrong with the suggestion that a committee of this House should look at the question to see whether it is working in those countries and to see what sort of corruption that action has perhaps avoided. We have all witnessed the mammoth corruption of the American system in a couple of election periods, not too long ago. It is very fresh in our memories. That situation should be avoided in Australia. 
We do not want to put ourselves in a position where it is alleged that there is corruption in the funding of political parties in Australia. The only way to avoid that situation is to bring everything out into the open. The Labor Party is very much in favour of this. Why do not the Liberal and National Country Parties join the Labor Party in this? Why are they trying to hide who their donors are? They will not even go as far as to establish a public register of those who make donations to their parties. When the Labor Government tried to legislate in 1973, 1974 and again in 1975 to establish a public register so that the public could see who made donations to political parties, the coalition parties joined together in the Senate to defeat the legislation. They will continue to be charged with all these sorts of things until such time as they agree that it would be in the national interest for the very basis of the Parliament, the funding of political parties and candidates, to be made clean, because the Australian public is entitled to know who the Government's backers are. Perhaps this could then be related to some of the actions taken by the Government. The Government must not continue to hide and refuse to recognise the importance of this subject, simply saying that it is going to overcome the problems of the people of Australia by establishing a committee on tourism, or on Aboriginal land rights, or on foreign affairs, or on expenditure. The very presence here of all of us will be in a very grey area until such time as the Liberal and National Country Parties recognise the corruption that can creep into the funding of political parties and the funding of candidates, and until such time as they recognise that something has to be done and that a committee must be set up, as has been done in parliaments right around the western world. 
I reiterate that we are not now spending $100 to run a campaign in a marginal electorate. Honourable members on the other side know this as well as the Opposition does. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  knows this. He is probably spending in the vicinity of $15,000 or $20,000 every election just in the electorate of Griffith. If that amount is multiplied by the eighty or ninety seats that are hard fought, the amount of money spent by the candidates themselves, ignoring the amount that is being spent by the head offices of the political parties, shows that the conduct of elections is a multi-million dollar affair. The people of Australia are entitled to know- it would be in the interests of members of Parliament more than of anyone else- where those funds come from. If that were known it might be concluded again that it would be in the best interests of Australia if the funds to conduct elections came out of general revenue. That is the pure way of doing it. That is the best way of doing it. That is the fairest way of doing it. It has been said since Federation that perhaps the Labor Party does not have the ability to raise the same amount of funds as the Liberal and National Country Parties. In relation to receiving very large donations from major companies that is true. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, consideration of notices is interrupted. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  agreed to: 
That the time for discussion of Notice No. 1, General Business, be extended. 
As I was saying, if we multiply the amounts that are being spent in individual electorates and get some idea of the millions of dollars that are being spent on campaigns this adds to the Labor Party's case that everybody should come clean on the funding of political parties. We see no reason why the Government will not accept these proposals. The Government can set up a committee upon which it has a majority. 
Let us analyse exactly what is going on. The honourable member for Griffith says quite rightly- I believe him; I do not challenge himthat he raises his campaign funds in the electorate of Griffith itself. But the honourable member cannot tell me because he would not have access to the books, how much money is paid into the headquarters of the Liberal and National Country Parties in Queensland. Not only is that sort of information denied to the public but also it is denied to the parliamentarians. Parliamentarians have no idea how much money is raised by their Party headquarters; what money exists in the slush funds all around Australia; or how money is paid to the political parties. All these aspects should be looked at by the proposed committee; then we can debate its report. 
The only reason we can see why honourable members opposite will not accept this proposalthey have defeated similar moves over the years to appoint such a committee- is that they must have something to hide. Do honourable members opposite believe that the problems of funding political parties in Australia are any different from the problems experienced by the other countries that I named? Are we presented with different problems? Are we presented with different problems because of the number of political parties or the number of candidates? Why do we not follow the lead of all those other countries? Perhaps we may reach different conclusions, but all the people in Australia would be glad to see that we have come clean on the funding of political parties. 
I reiterate that the charges exist. Everybody believes that the big backers of the Liberal and National Country Parties are Mt Isa Mines Ltd, the Bank of New South Wales, the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd and the Utah Development Company. People will go on believing that until such time as they know exactly what relationship exists between all these major companies and the government of the day. The only way we can find out that relationship and rescue ourselves and our reputations in the process is to appoint a select committee to look at these questions. The committee may reach conclusions and make recommendations to this Parliament similar to those of other such committees around the world, that is, that it is not in the best interests of the political system of this country to have private donations at all to political parties. Irrespective of the fact that we all get up and say that there are no ties with the donations that are made to us individually or between donors and political parties, who believes us? The public does not believe us. The public thinks a definite relationship exists between the donor and the political party. 
We are putting forward a rescue operation for politicians in this generation and in this Parliament and for future generations and future parliaments. We ask the Government to look seriously at accepting the proposals. The committee may present interim reports and final reports with the result that future elections may be conducted by a new process. Millions of dollars will be spent in the elections of 1978, 1981 and 1984. If the honourable member for Griffith and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  are each spending $ 1 5,000 or $20,000 on each election now in 6 years' time they will want $30,000 or $40,000. There is no ceiling; honourable members raise and spend as much as they possibly can. If the honourable member for Parramatta is raising $30,000 or $40,000 in 6 years time the political machine in New South Wales probably will want $5 m or $6m. 
Where will it all end? Even the United States has put a ceiling on the spending of its Presidential candidates. The United States has had all the trouble of Watergate and the corruption involved with political donations. It is trying to wipe out the corruption. The United Kingdom, West Germany and other countries have moved in this area. But this Government continues to hide behind the present situation which embodies aspects that we really cannot understand or be fully informed on. Why will the Government not accept the suggestion by the honourable member for Corio that a committee of this Parliament should look at the whole question of the operation of the Australian Electoral Office, electoral laws, funding and voting procedures? All these questions are very basic to us. Our operations will be in a grey area until such time as we clarify our position. I make it clear that the Labor Party will not change its views on this question. We will continue to try year after year to get the Government to come out into the open on this question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Honourable members on this side of the House wonder why, when the Government is charged with perhaps the gravest charge that can be laid, that it has been responsible for a drop in the living standards of the people of this country, it decides to put up a rejected front bencher, instead of a Minister or one of its spokesmen on economic matters, to say that it seriously believes that the Opposition charge is ill-founded. To engage in pretence by putting forward a back bencher, who served on the front bench in Opposition last year but who was rejected this year as the Government spokesman, is to make a joke of this debate. This debate is no joke. This year was the first year for many years that the Australian people have had lower standards of living forced upon them. This will continue through 1977. The Opposition will be warning the people of 
Australia, as will the trade unions, what this Government is about. The only people today who are better off than they were a year ago are some of the very major rnining companies and the Prime Minister's Press Secretary who received $30,000 in overtime this year. They are the only people who are better off. Members on the Government benches should look at the figures put out by Professor Henderson to define what he calls the poverty line to see where he sets what could be described as the poverty level in Australia. More and more people, as a result of this Government's policies, have been forced to live below the poverty line described by Professor Henderson. 
Average weekly earnings in Australia are now over $180 a week. Approximately 30 per cent of the people in Australia, including those of us who serve in this Parliament, are among those who receive more than average weekly earnings. But the average weekly earnings figure must be exposed in Australia because it does a great injustice to those people who receive less than that amount. That figure is arrived at after politicians and judges and all the professional classes are thrown by the Government into the same barrel as the workers in factories throughout this country. The Government comes up with a figure for average weekly earnings in Australia of $ 1 83. That figure is a joke and ought to be exposed as a joke. The vast majority of people in this country do not receive average weekly earnings. Under this Government more and more people are being forced not just below average weekly earnings but below the poverty line of $140 a week for a man and his wife and 4 children, as described by Professor Henderson. 
These are the figures that ought to be looked at. That is the amount of salary that people ought to look at when they talk about the living standards in this country. The only answer which this Government gives continually to the economic problems in this country is to belt the wage and salary earner. He has to carry the burden. I have said twice already this week but I will say again that before devaluation the Government said continually that the mining companies and the rural sector were carrying an unfair share of the burden. So the profits of Utah mining company rise from $132m to $179m while this Government refuses to pay benefits to an unemployed student. That is the Government's idea of living standards in Australia and all Government back benchers are condoning one of the great crimes of this country by saying to all the school leavers: You will have to live off your parents, live off your own homes, until such time as we decide to give you unemployment benefits in February'. In the context of the standard of living in this country, that is an absolute joke. 
Consider what this Government said in its preelection promises. It said: 'We are not going to have the dole bludgers on the Gold Coast'. What a joke it was to suggest that in the term of office of the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 that there suddenly appeared in Australia millions of young people who were living off unemployment benefits and who did not really want to go to work. There are thousands of young people in Australia now- 40 per cent of the unemployed- under 20 years of age who want to go to work. What is the Government providing for them? The whole strategy of the Budget was to retain the unemployment levels exactly as they had been. It now becomes obvious that the figure will increase until the Budget of 1977. What is the standard of living of those people? The school leavers who have been added to the number of unemployed people are not only being denied a job but also are being denied any sort of economic independence. If the Government wants to know whether its policies are working, it should look at the most recent public opinion polls. Why is the Government 9 per cent less popular today than it was one year ago? It is because of the inhumane policies, particularly the economic policies, which have been expressed by the Government, through the Treasury, since December last year. 
The Labor Government was the first Government in the history of Australia to keep its promise to lift pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. From 1949 to 1972 pensions, as part of average weekly earnings, fluctuated between 18 per cent and 21 per cent. The Labor Government lifted pensions to 25 per cent and the pensioners throughout this country knew when increases were to take place, in the autumn and in the spring, and they knew that their standards of living would lift along with the standards of living of those people who were receiving average weekly earnings. What is the position today? The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  who is a former professor of economics, should do some quick arithmetic. The pension now is 22 per cent of average weekly earnings. Already, the old conservative ideology is showing itself in the way that this Government is treating the pensioners of this country. So, from the time a person leaves school till he goes on the pension, this Government has implemented policies which drastically reduce the standard of living of people in this country. 
How will the Government deal with the problems for 1977? It has been stated that as a result of the effect of devaluation on inflation, the inflation rate will be at least 1 5 per cent in 1 977. Who is to carry the burden? Are we to ask the mining companies, Utah and Hamersley Iron, to carry the burden? The Government says that the mining companies are carrying an unfair share of the burden and that it will try to lift their profits. It is the wage and salary earners who will be told, in the first national wage case, that they must carry all the burden. Instead of being able to keep up with the cost of living they will be asked to accept half or less than half of the increase in the cost of living that has taken place in the December quarter as a result of Medibank. The Labor Government established a national health scheme to overcome the problems of the 1 500 000 people in this country who were not covered by health schemes. Everybody was covered by Medibank. This Government promised last December that Medibank as well as indexation would be retained. Promises are broken by this Government as if they were never made. They are broken every day. The Government said: 'We will maintain Medibank. We will maintain indexation'. Honourable members on the other side of the House must use earplugs when Ministers talk to them in the Party room and tell them what they intend to do. The Medibank levy will now increase the cost of living in this country. The Government says that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must not pass on this cost to wage and salary earners. 
The cost of living in this country will increase in 1977 by 15 per cent or 16 per cent and honourable members opposite are asking wage and salary earners to accept a 5 or 6 per cent increase in earnings. By their push to try to lower the living standards of the people they are inviting industrial anarchy in this country. As a Party which has been associated since Federation with all the humane policies that have been brought down in this Parliament, we will fight tooth and nail on every policy which relates to a lowering of living standards that the Government brings down in this Parliament. Honourable members opposite think that the only possible way to come up with a recipe to overcome economic problems is to attack wage and salary earners, pensioners or people who are handicapped. If they can remove the coal levy to help mining companies or if they can devalue to help mining companies and large pastoralists they will do so time and time again. The Leader of the Opposition, by bringing forward this matter of public importance, has exposed to the people of Australia the fact that this is the first year for a long time that we have had a lowering of living standards. It should not have happened. It has been brought about by the direct action of this very conservative, reactionary and anti-wage and salary earner Government. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Why have businesses in the equipment rental field been excluded from the benefits of the 40 per cent investment allowance purportedly designed to encourage investment in new equipment 
-In the time available to me I want to focus attention on what I consider to be the chaos that exists amongst industry in Australia today, specifically manufacturing industry and to make some comment on the rather amazing statements yesterday of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in their so-called economic statements that everything occurring in Australia today is going according to some grand plan which the Government hatched when it came to office on 13 December 1975. 1 put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  that when we talk about the industries in Australia today we have to do so in the context of the manpower policies which may be available to a government or in which a government may be interested. Today I think we have to talk about the feeling of the Government for people in employment who are threatened by unemployment, what lies ahead for the industries of Australia, and what the Government is doing to see that any structural adjustment affecting our industries has the full confidence and participation of the community. 
At the outset, I wish to quote from the 1945 White Paper on full employment which was delivered at the time of the Chifley Government. There is no doubt that it was a key instrument in giving Australia a guide after the war as to what its objectives in manpower should be. The White Paper said: 
Full employment is a fundamental aim of the Commonwealth Government. The Government believes that the people of Australia will demand and are entitled to expect full employment ... the maintenance of conditions which will make full employment possible is an obligation owed to the people of Australia by Commonwealth and State Governments. 
Let me repeat the last couple of lines:  the maintenance of conditions which will make full employment possible is an obligation owed to the people of Australia by Commonwealth and State Governments. 
That was the philosophy of the Chifley Government as presented to the Parliament in 1945. The string of conservative governments from 1949 to 1972 changed that philosophy. In 1967 the then Minister for Labour and National Service, Leslie Bury, made the following statement: 
Australia is one of those countries which does not engage in manpower planning. We are fortunate in possessing vigorous product and resource markets in which demand and supply forces can operate freely. 
One can see from these 2 approaches to employment that the Labor Party when in office was continually concerned about the people employed in various industries and the industries themselves whereas conservative governments prior to 1972 were not concerned. Today we ave a Government which is not concerned about the industries, does not know what to do about them, and subsequently has no feeling for the people who are placed in the queues of the unemployed. 
Although we have heard some rhetoric from the various Ministers of this Government about what they would do for industry and the unemployed we have seen no action on this front. Obviously, when this Government came to power it did so with the overwhelming support of industry. Of that there can be no doubt. But a lot of people are now doubting the words uttered by the Government when it came to power in 1975 in relation to what it would do. The Labor Party faces the inevitability of change in industry. We know that change will take place. In coming to that conclusion one has only to observe what has occurred in the work force since 1945- the gigantic build up in the tertiary industries, the dismantling of the manufacturing industries, the lowering of the work force substantially in the rural industries and the maintenance of a very small work force in the mining industry. On most occasions we have been able to observe those changes when we have been living in a very buoyant economy. At the moment we are watching the grotesque dismantling of Australia's manufacturing industry, when the Government has no plans either to deal with the industry itself or the people employed in it. 
The changes in industry at the moment are quite significant. The Government, I charge, does not know in which direction the change is heading. It does not indicate to the public whether it agrees with that change or whether it encourages the change and the way it is occurring. It is about time that the Government told the people of Australia exactly what changes it wants to see taking place in Australia 's industrial affairs and in industry itself, and exactly what lies ahead. I want to give some evidence of what is occurring in Australia today in manufacturing industry. I do not want to rely upon Labor Party views or philosophy for this; I want to give evidence that has been supplied to me by people who would normally be labelled as supporters of the present Government. If we look at some of the surveys which have been made available to both the Government and the Opposition we see some very frightening features of what is occurring in industry in Australia today. 
The first thing I shall refer to is the Foundry Industry Statistical Survey which was taken in the last quarter of 1976. Employment in the foundry industry when compared with a year earlier had declined nationally by 10.5 per cent. Forward orders based on weeks worked is down nationally by 27.6 per cent. I shall now state the industries to which the foundry industry is related. They are the auto industry and the rolling stock, rnining, building and other general industries. All these industries are in some way or another related to the foundry industry. Therefore, if the figures for the orders and employment as given to us by the foundry industry are correct we can see that there is some limit to work going on in all the industries related to it. 
Let us look at the auto industry. Two years ago the Government told us that there would be great changes in the auto industry. In 1976 there was no growth at all in the sales of vehicles units in Australia. The industry itself is extremely pessimistic about what might happen in 1977. The Government, of course, will point to figures for December 1976 and will say: 'This is the answer to all our prayers'. The rise in December 1976 in motor car sales and in sales of many other imported products occurred because people tended to buy the imported product. There was no great assistance for the Australian manufactured article. The figures do not give a lead as to what will happen in 1977. The Australian Automobile Dealers Association has put forward a series of reasons as to why things are not occurring in the industry which are all related to the policies of the Government. I shall list the reasons they give: Lack of consumer confidence, Government sales tax policy, availability of finance. Industry as well as the Bank of New South Wales is saying that there is a credit squeeze, but the Prime Minister tells us that there is not. It is a rather amazing piece of theatre to watch the leading spokesman for the Bank of New South Wales,  Mr Prowse,  telling Australia that there is a credit squeeze and the Prime Minister telling us that there is not. One would think that if there was one institution in Australia which would know whether or not there was a credit squeeze on it would be the Bank of New South Wales. 
The automobile people have put forward answers to some of their problems. They want sales tax reduced immediately in order to stimulate the automobile industry. It is not just the manufacturers or the dealers who are involved; an enormous component industry is related to the problem. If the Government were serious about improving the work opportunities of the people in Australia, of course, it would take action to stimulate those industries which can employ a lot of people. 
We are now talking about a situation in which we have a recession in the economy. We are not talking about a buoyant economy in which we can get some sort of stable structural adjustment. We are talking about designing policies to keep people at work, and that is missing from the policies of the Government today. If everything is going according to plan, these mass sackings that are taking place in industry today must be part of that plan. Let me read to the House what the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures told the Government 2 weeks ago about what is occurring in industry: 
The VCM's December/ January survey of 103 employers in 12 industries continues to reveal uncertainty and little optimism in manufacturing industry as a whole in Victoria. 
Cost rises are still evident and imported material cost increases of up to 20 per cent have been reported. 
That is the brief report made by the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. Let us now look at what John Garland-that name will send a shiver down the spines of many honourable members opposite- the Joint National Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers' and Shipwrights' Union in Sydney, had to say to me on 3 February. This has occurred since Christmas. I shall just read out the names of the firms which are now in the process of sacking people. They are: Kirby 's, Victa, Sunbeam, Bradford Kendall, Crompton Parkinson and Smith Industries. They are the names of the firms from which skilled people, members of a craft union, are being dismissed right now. When is the last occasion on which honourable members of this House can remember mass sackings occurring following Christmas? If the fat has to be cut off industry it is normally done before Christmas. But here we are told of hundreds and hundreds of people being sacked. Honourable members opposite do not have to go to John Garland- they would not like to do that-the Joint National Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers' and Shipwrights' Union, of course. They can go and ask their own people about these things. They should ask the Metal Industries Association about what has happened. I understand that since I received these figures 1000 men and women involved in only 4 industries have been sacked in the Bankstown area in the last fortnight. We are receiving the same sorts of reports from all over Australia to the effect that people are being dismissed, that there are no orders coming in, that the Government is not taking any action, that the whole of manufacturing industry has a question mark hanging over its head. 
Let us have a look at the effect that that is having on young people, because it is extremely important to do so from the point of view of manpower. The Liberal and Country parties formulated the terms 'dole bludgers' and 'lazy surfies' and all the other terms that were used to denegrate those people, young and old, who could not find employment in this country. Let us have a look at what the Brotherhood of St Laurence says that the Government's policies are doing to young people who cannot put their feet even on the first rung of dignity by being able to find employment when they leave school. Let us see how that organisation appraises the effect on young people of the Government's policies. I shall list its comments in order: 
Loss of faith in society and government. 
b ) Development of anti-work attitudes. 
Development of habits that would mitigate against future employment. 
Damage to feelings of self-esteem. 
Family tensions arise as young people fail to get employed. 
Trouble with the law. With nowhere to go and nothing to do, larceny and vandalism is a potential development. 
Getting used to managing on benefits and seeking no advantage in working for a slightly higher income in a routine job when they have no particular skill to sell. 
That is what the Brotherhood of St Laurence said that the Government's policies are doing to the young people of this country. The Government tries to avoid the responsibility by saying that those young people are dole bludgers or that they do not want employment. If everything is going to plan, as the Treasurer and the Prime Minister would have us believe, what level does unemployment have to reach in this country before the plan is changed? For how long are the people on the back benches on the Government side going to sit idly by and watch people in their own electorates join the dole queues or the young people are to be refused the unemployment benefit when they leave school? That is what has happened in Australia. There is no bright future. There is no great optimism for 1977. The fact is that the Government's plan is not working. There is no structural adjustment plan for industry in Australia, whether for the proprietors of industry or for the people who work in it. 
The fact is that we are facing complete industrial chaos as a result of the policies of the Government. One cannot predict with any certainty at all what level unemployment will reach. The Government should not be believed when it says that perhaps the figures are being coloured or camouflaged by the number of people who have left school. The people who are now making up the extra numbers of unemployed are those people who are being sacked right nowtoday, tomorrow and on Friday in Sydney and Melbourne and in all our large manufacturing centres. That is what is occurring as a result of the Government's policies. Government supporters do not have to ask us if they want that verified; they can ask their own supporters, because they are forever at our door telling us the results of the present Government's policies and the present Government's refusal to recognise the real problems of manufacturing industry in Australia. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Would it be possible for companies purchasing plant or equipment, and thus attracting the investment allowance, then to send that plant and equipment overseas or off-shore in order to set up their industries there? Is he aware that that practice is being carried out? Has he taken steps to see that it is prevented so that Australian taxpayers' money is not used to set up industries off-shore? 
-The Opposition welcomes the opportunity to discuss the Trade Practices Act as it now stands and the suggested amendments in the Bill now before the House. However, it may have been better- I put this to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)-  if we had had the discussion surrounding the Swanson Committee report because I believe that may have been more helpful in the drafting of the legislation than the procedure which was followed. I make those points in relation to the comments by the Minister as to the way in which this legislation will be handled. As it is, of course, the Opposition finds itself brought into a debate on what is commonly called dead legislation. We are not aware of what further changes the Government proposes to make from its own side or from the submissions that it may have received over the Christmas recess, let alone the extent to which it may be prepared to listen to the legitimate arguments put by Opposition speakers. Let me say that on the matters now raised by the Minister- and this is the first indication we have had from the Government as to the way it intends to handle suggestions or submissions that have been put to it since this Bill was introduced- it may well be a very positive step for the Government to make the Opposition aware of the type of suggestions it is looking at in the form of amendments rather than the Opposition having to wait until the legislation is introduced because, as the Minister said in his second reading speech- and as most people have said when speaking on the subject of trade practicesit is indeed very complex legislation. I believe it would be in the interests of the Parliament, seeing that we do not have legislative committees, if we had some forewarning of the way in which the Government intends to proceed with legislation. 
Let me say that the Labor Party has no reason to apologise for the trade practices legislation that it introduced during its term of office. It gave the average Australian citizen protection which he had been missing since Federation in the fields covered by the present Act. May I just say in very general terms that the present Government in our opinion has a very warped view on what action is going to activate the economy because whether we talk about the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Trade Practices Commission the Government somehow sees the relevant Acts rather as a monkey riding on the back of business and that all that is required is for someone to shift the monkey and business, and subsequently the economy, will again blossom 
A sick economy cannot be boosted by hastily drafted legislation which sets out to draw the teeth of the Trade Practices Commission, thus reducing competition and acting against the very spirit of the Act. On this question let me just read from the last annual report of the Trade Practices Commission itself. I think it is very important for us to understand the process that we may be going through at the moment in terms of the relationship between what views the Government may have had prior to coming to office in 1975 and its promises specifically to business about what it would do with the trade practices legislation, the setting up of the Swanson Committee, its terms of reference and its relationship with the Government's intent and what the Commission had to say in its last annual report. There seem to me to be grey areas of great contradiction between the operations of the Commission, the way it sees its role, the work it was doing, the impact it was having and the role that is seen for it by the Government and the way in which the Swanson Committee itself was set up. On page 2 of the annual report of the Commission it says: 
With the Act having brought, in its short life of a year and three-quarters, all the activity reported in last year's report and this one, there could be some tendency to think of the Act in immediate terms, when the truth is that the Act is essentially long-term legislation. 
I think it very important for members of the Parliament and for the Parties in this Parliament to recognise and to accept that first proposition of the Commission itself, otherwise we are going to find ourselves continually harassed by people who are affected by the Trade Practices Act. They will be putting up submissions that we ought to have amending legislation every week that the Parliament sits. If we accept- and we on this side of the House do- that the Act is long term, then I think that the Government may be guilty of hurrying things along in order to overcome some of the economic problems it is now facing, and I want to touch on that later on in view of the terms of reference that were set down for the Swanson Committee in regard to the way in which that Committee may have tried to assist the Government to overcome the Government's problems with the economy. 
I want to touch also on the very essence and spirit of the Act because I think it is important for everybody to get into perspective the reason why the Labor Government enforced the powers of this Parliament under the section of the Constitution which is the basis for trade practices legislation. The very essence and the very spirit of the Trade Practices Act is the competition. There may be those who argue- and according to the Swanson Committee report a lot of people would argue- that it is not achieving that at all but I doubt very much the credibility of those people who put forward that view to the Committee and who may argue that way in the Parliament. These are not the results we have seen- and which are available for everybody to see- since the commencement of the operations of the Commission. 
Let me quote again from the annual report in relation to what the Commission sees as its role: 
As competition is so central to the Act, is may be useful to quote what the Trade Practices Tribunal had to say, when discussing competition in general terms in its only decision so far on the merits of an authorisation case taken to it on review from the Commission (the Barnes Milling merger case, see Chapter 3): 'Competition may be valued for many reasons as serving economic, social and political goals. But in identifying the existence of competition in particlar industries or markets, we must focus upon its economic role as a device for controlling the disposition of society's resources. Thus we think of competition as a mechanism for discovery of market information and for enforcement of business decisions in the light of this information. It is a mechanism, first, for firms discovering the kinds of goods and services the community wants and the manner in which these may be supplied in the cheapest possible way. Prices and profits are the signals which register the play of these forces of demand and supply. At the same time, competition is a mechanism of enforcement: firms disregard these signals at their peril, being fully aware that there are other firms, either currently in existence or as yet unborn, which would be only too willing to encroach upon their market share and ultimately supplant them. 
So I believe that if we are fiddling with the role of the Commission to enhance competition within our community then the Government should come out and say so. If it is trying to enforce the role of competition and in so doing using the Commission then all it is doing is enforcing what we sought to be the role of the Commission when the legislation was first introduced. This is not something that is peculiar just to Australia. The United States Attorney-General's National Committee to Study the Anti-trust Laws- and this has been incorporated, I would have thought quite consciously, by the Commission in its annual report- had this to say: 
The basic characteristic of effective competition in the economic sense is that no one seller, and no group of sellers acting in concert, has the power to choose its level of profits by giving less and charging more. 
So these sorts of sentiments that have been expressed both in this report and in the United States are sentiments which the Labor Party endorses wholeheartedly. Let me get back to my criticism of the Government in its desire perhaps to try to patch up a sick economy by diluting the powers or the role of the Commission. A sick economy is absolutely no excuse for such decision making. The second point I wish to make is .that tearing the Trade Practices Act into another arm of harsh industrial law will invite turmoil into industry. Obviously these sections which have been incorporated into the amending legislation have triggered off a great deal more comment within the Labor movement than most other sections- in fact, any other section. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  as the Opposition spokesman on these matters will be going into detail on what he sees to be perhaps the constitutional right of the Government to do so and the practical nonsense of the Government trying to use the Trade Practices Act to solve these problems. 
All the warning signs on this question are there. They have come from the Opposition, from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and from business people who have stopped to think about the ramifications of such a clumsy attempt at union bashing. Of course, there will be honourable members opposite who will charge that the Labor Party is forced to support the trade union movement come hell or high water. I assure the House that it is not so. Nor is it true to say that unions support the Australian Labor Party on all occasions or endorse all its policy pronouncements. Each has its own identity. Each makes its own decisions. 
We certainly do not shirk our responsibilities. What is true is that the Labor Opposition and the Australian trade union movement have joined together to condemn this clumsy attempt to widen the scope to industrial relations. The second string to the Government's bow is its attempt to camouflage its incompetence in handling the economy and to blame the trade unions for everything that goes wrong. It is both a snide and, in the long term, a divisive manoeuvre which will set groups within our community on a senseless collision course. It is the opinion of the Opposition that there is no justification for writing into the Trade Practices Act provisions which, by their very nature, will cause more problems than they solve. I sincerely hope that the Government will see the legitimacy of our case at the conclusion of this debate. As I said earlier, this legislation springs directly from the Swanson Committee report handed to the Government on 20 August 1976. In what was almost a totally unique situation, the most vehement criticism of the report came from the Trade Practices Commission itself. In a document released on 21 September 1976, the Trade Practices Commission made public its own view on the effects of the Committee's recommendations. I refer to the views of the Trade Practices Commission as reported by Richard Ackland in the  Australian Financial Review  of that date. He quotes at length from the views of the Trade Practices Commission itself. He says: 
In a prepared study of the Trade Practices Act review committee's report, the commission also argues that the  recommendations could effectively destroy much of the work it has done on ridding industries of illegal exclusive dealing arrangements. 
Some of the commission's most difficult and important cases have arisen in the exclusive dealing area, namely the petroleum and brewing industries, and with the building societies' tied insurance schemes. 
The commission says that the committee's proposed new registration procedure for exclusive dealing could destroy much of its attempts to get a workable level of competition in these and other industries. 
The Commission went on to say: 
The Swanson report, in expressing sympathy for the small family business that wants to be taken over, says nothing of the interest of the rival small business which will be confronted with a merged and much larger rival and perhaps be isolated in the market. 
I think there is much more to be said on the question of mergers and I intend to touch on this subject at length later in the debate to point out that I think that the Government is making an enormous mistake in focusing all the attention on the target company which may be below the $3m threshold level which has been set, and in completely ignoring the level of the company that may be the takeover company itself. I think in those respects quite legitimate arguments have been raised. The Opposition applauds the very constructive and public spirited manner in which the Commission let its views be known and rejects completely the suggestion made by opponents of the Commission that it was not entitled to make its views public. Criticisms were made of the Trade Practices Commission following publication of its outspokenness, and the Opposition rejects those views that would suppress the views of the Trade Practices Commission. The Opposition realises, of course, that the Government has not included all the recommendations of the Swanson Committee, but as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  referred in his second reading speech to further legislation and further discussion, the Opposition has no alternative but to recognise the dominance of the Swanson mentality over Government legislation in this area. 
I wish to turn now to some of the terms of reference and the very sketchy way in which I believe the Committee dealt with some of these questions and perhaps the loaded way in which the terms of reference were set. I do not wish to refer to them all but I want to refer to some of them. Term of reference 1(b) states:  whether the Act is causing unintended difficulties or unnecessary costs to the Australian public, including Australian business. 
In the final clause in its summary, the Committee had the following to say: 
Finally we should note our belief that many but not all of the costs to which we have been referred have been costs of a 'once only' nature- usually legal and professional costsassociated with the process of becoming familiar with the legislation and ordering affairs to fit with its rules. These costs will, of course, tend to fall, the longer the Act is in operation and more fully understood. 
The point here, if ore relates that back to what the Trade Practices Commission said about the long term nature of this operation, is of course, that, there may be immediate complaint about the companies adjusting to authorities like the Trade Practices Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal or the Industries Assistance Commission. But surely no one argues seriously that there is no need for their existence. It is an impossible task to set up an authority like the Trade Practices Commission and expect that the nature of its operation will be as cheap- if we want to use that term- or that the costs will be as little in its immediate term of operation as they will be in the years hence. I think that the Government asking companies to come forward and complain about the cost of going to the Trade Practices Commission was really only inviting a red herring of criticism of the Trade Practices Commission itself, a view which we on this side of the House would, of course, reject. 
The second term of reference to which I want to pay some attention is 1 (C), which states:  whether in the current economic circumstances of Australia the operation of any part of the Act inhibits, or is likely to inhibit, economic recovery contrary to the economic objectives of the Government. 
What responsibility do any of these authorities have for the running of the economy of this country? Their task covered by their charter concerns what they are to do by the law and within the law. To say to them: 'Are you inhibiting or are you likely to inhibit economic recovery ' seems to me to be going well outside the competence of the members of the Committee to give advice to the Government that perhaps the Trade Practices Commission was in some way slowing down economic recovery in this country. I cannot see the legitimacy of giving the Committee a term of reference regarding the general economic question. The reason I raise this point is not because the Committee itself, in its final analysis, accepted that it was inhibiting economic recovery. As I have said, I do not think it was competent to make that judgment. The Committee made the same judgment by saying that it did not think it was so competent. All I am saying is that in making terms of reference such as this, the Government was quite consciously drawing unnecessary criticism of the operations of the Trade Practices Commission. Anybody who went to that Committee and put forward a case that it was in fact inhibiting economic recovery had that case rejected. I would like to hear the Minister perhaps substantiate the reason that was put in the terms of reference and whether, in fact, some of these things did not tend to camouflage the real work of the Committee. 
It is also important to understand, first of all, that we on this side of the House have a quite different point of view from that of the Government as to the operations of the Trade Practices Commission and under whose responsibility it should lie. It is well known, of course, that under the Labor Government the Trade Practices Commission was part of the Attorney-General's Department. As we have said in this Parliament, that is where it would be returned under future Labor governments, because these sorts of fields, when placed in business, are not part of business or supplemented by business; they are dominated by business. The Committee was dominated by business. Its views are dominated by business. But the trade practices operations are not necessarily set up to look after business; they are set up to see that business operates in the competitive spirit which is in the best interests of the Australian consumer. So I think that in some of these things the relationship between the Committee and its views and those of the Department and the Government are quite different from the views that may be held on this side of the House. The Committee's third term of reference reads: 
The Committee is asked to report on the effect of the Act on small businesses and to assess whether small business could and should be awarded special treatment by the Act. 
The charge has been made in respect of the Committee, both by the Trade Practices Commission and by small business people- I understand that the Minister has already received delegations of small business people- that many small business groups did not go before the Swanson Committee to argue against the existence of clauses. They were quite happy with the way in which they were operating. But, to their dismay, because they did not appear and because those who did appear apparently held a different point of view, and because the Committee felt it was operating within its charter, they found that a section with which they were vitally interested was not just amended but in fact was repealed. I think the Government is going to have to look seriously at this question of the operations of the Act as they affect small businesses. I understand that my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  will be speaking on the question of price discrimination later in the debate. The real teeth of the present Act lies in section 4, and obviously it is attracting most of our attention in this debate. It certainly attracts a great deal- the vast majority- of criticism that is made of the operations of the Trade Practices Commission. 
The other speakers from this side of the House will raise different questions. We have tried to avoid repeating arguments or treading on each other's ground so that the Minister does get from this debate what he claims the Government is seeking. In the time remaining to me I want to deal with the question of mergers because I think it is important that we put up our arguments against what the Government in this Bill has accepted as being logic. But we hope, between now and the proroguing of the Parliament and the introduction of a new Bill, it will accept that that has been a very bad suggestion. I want to refer to what the Trade Practices Commission said about the structure of industry and what it had to say about mergers in its last annual report: 
There has been criticism of the significance of structure in the Commission's work. It is put in 2 ways. First it is said that the Commission denies clearance to mergers because it pays too much attention to structure and not enough to conduct and performance. Then it is said that the Commission impedes the work of the Industries Assistance Commission towards scale economy that can only come from increasing the concentration in an industry. The Commission rejects both criticisms. 
Incidentally, I failed to locate any detailed criticism that the IAC may have made about the operations of the Trade Practices Commission, and I think it would be a legitimate exercise of the Government, if there is a clash between these 2 bodies and their roles, not merely to present us with a case to say that there is a clash between the roles of these 2 authorities but rather to present us with evidence and not straight off the top of the head suggestions that perhaps that is the case. The Commission went on to say: 
The second criticism was rejected in last year's report, but is still raised. The fact is that the Commission does not stand in the way of scale economy that is being encouraged by the IAC. Indeed scale economy is of prime importance whether or not the IAC has been concerned in the matter. The approach for both is by way of reducing restrictions on competition to the minimum necessary- in one case through the application of the Trade Practices Act to domestic competition and in the other by the application of tariff policy to import competition. 
It seems to me that that is a very legitimate case put forward by the Trade Practices Commission. It says in no uncertain terms that it does not believe it is interfering with or presenting itself as any sort of hurdle to the operations of the IAC. It seems to me that the charter of both authorities work towards the one objective, although along different roads, and that there is no need for there to be any great clash. But let us have a further look at this matter because the Government, in its terms of reference, put forward the very neat suggestion that perhaps the Committee should have a look at a threshold, without stipulating what it ought to be. Nevertheless, it was not an original committee idea. The Government suggested the idea to the Committee. The Committee must have been terribly enthusiastic about it because it seems to me that it could not have taken the suggestion much further without roping in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and a few of the other major companies by establishing such a very high criterion and by ignoring the operations of the companies that may be involved in the takeover. In its report the Committee, in a very scanty way and, I must say, in a not very well argued way, suggests the reason why it accepted a threshold test. The Committee 's report states: 
Most submissions expressly or impliedly regarded the continuation of merger provisions as necessary but sought substantial changes in the law and its operation. Others sought the abolition of this pan of the law altogether. 
I remind honourable members that the Trade Practices Commission said in its criticism that if you abolish a section altogether you might as well close down the Trade Practices Commission. Nevertheless, there were those people who went along with the Committee and argued for the abolition of this part of the Act. The Committee went on to say: 
The first question which we consider is the need for any merger control as pan of the Trade Practices Act. 
In our view, there are 2 main reasons for including merger provisions in any competition policy law: 
merger provisions are necessary to prevent the possibility of achieving, by merger, anti-competitive results prohibited elsewhere in the same law; 
merger provisions ensure that the control of significant capital assets in the community does not change hands in circumstances that disregard any anti-competitive effects of the change. 
It seems to me- I have said this previously- that the Committee was trying to determine what constitutes a small business. I disregard completely the very shallow proposal that this sort of thing allows a small businessman to sell out so that he and his family can live without worry for the rest of their days. I am talking of a small business as being one which has a turnover of less than $3m. How the Committee or the Government could ignore completely the company which was doing the taking over is completely beyond me. How they could ignore the anticompetitive factors which would be part of that takeover is also beyond me, because there could be many cases- there were many prior to the introduction of this legislation- of small businesses being taken over in circumstances where a certain element of competition was eradicated from the community. No doubt by setting this threshold the same thing can apply. If the Government were sincere about the threshold test it would also apply the threshold test to the company doing the taking over. Let us have a look at the turnover of such a company, and let us have a look at where it operates and at what impact its having an additional company added to its list will have on the community. I think those things also are important. 
In order to see what the Trade Practices Commission had to say about these things, let me quote from its very brief review of the Swanson Committee report: 
There may be real doubts whether a threshold system can be satisfactorily grafted on to the Act at all, given its approach of stating principles of general application and its emphasis on competition that the Committee more than once endorses . . . 
The very presence of a statutory threshold is likely to affect market conduct. For example, merger activity could be stimulated at the expense of competitive activity. There might be encouragement of mergers in some cases as a legitimate alternative to arrangements that might contravene sections 45 or 47. There could be moves to take over small but fast growing companies that are offering increasing competition, but have not yet reached the threshold. Large companies complain from time to time about the competition small companies provide whether it be because of lower overheads, specialisation, or simply because they are more directly managed. Even in manufacturing industry, small companies can have surprising importance. In some industries the disappearance of only a few small companies would leave the large companies in total control. 
Elsewhere in its criticism the Trade Practices Commission states that to take this work away from the Commission- to disregard the impact upon small companies- would take away a certain specialist element within the Commission that is able to understand industry totally. I ask the Minister to consider the suggestions that will be made by following Opposition speakers. 
It is not my intention to detain the House any longer. I understand there will be other speakers in this debate. I put it to the Government that it ought to be looking seriously at the question of employment in the manufacturing industry, and I have taken the opportunity given in debating this Bill to say so. I nope that other honourable members from both sides of the House will support the sentiments I am expressing. 
-The people involved in the industries covered by this amendment have not been knocking on our door complaining about the recommendations. Nevertheless, I want to use the opportunity, as do some of my colleagues, to say something about what the Opposition considers is occurring in manufacturing industry and some of the problems with which we will perhaps be confronted. Obviously the Government is facing some dilemma on this matter as a result of the 2 questions that have been asked from the back benches today and yesterday about the policies that it ought to be adopting. In terms of the role of the Industries Assistance Commission or the suggested amendments to the role of the Temporary Assistance Authority, obviously there are a lot of question marks hanging over the role and future of manufacturing industry and it would expect that the national Parliament would be taking more than a passing interest in what might occur. 
Before I turn to the actual impact of the IAC reports or the reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority on the industries themselves, let me say that in my tour of industry during the Christmas break and subsequently, I found that a number of industries were in the throes of making decisions about their future and about the future employment that may be available in those industries. Yesterday an announcement was made that the December quarter resulted in a 6 per cent increase in the cost of living. This will become the subject of a national wage case commencing next week. Of that 6 per cent increase, if we take the word of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  3.2 per cent is made up of the Medibank charges or the change in the health scheme arrangements in Australia. The 3.2 per cent of the increase should not be subject to any debate because the Government promised that the 3.2 per cent would not be opposed. So the argument will revolve around whether 3.2 per cent is passed on or whether it is 3.2 per cent plus 2.8 per cent. So one can imagine that there is a fair dilemma in the minds of those who manage and work in our manufacturing industries throughout Australia. That is the situation which applies to the December quarter. But then we are faced with the problem of the devaluation and what that might do to the consumer price index for the first quarter of 1977. Most people seem to be predicting I do not have the expertise in this subject and I do not make the prediction myself- a 5 per cent increase in the CPI for the first quarter of 1977. That is the figure which is most commonly used. 
-Just to add to what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier  ) put: 
That the question be now put 
I believe the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is going to make a statement about the drafting of clause 11, which at the moment stands completely inoperative. If it were drafted to obtain an election at large to wipe out the National Country Party the Attorney-General could do so with the full support of honourable members who sit on this side of the House. Whenever legislation of this nature comes before us one could be forgiven for believing that the 3 groups of seats in this chamber taken up by the Liberal Party really come under the power of the National Country Party in the coalition. Any discussion on this legislation always revolves around whether the coalition can survive. On this occasion the coalition will survive by a number of Liberal Party members sacrificing their seats. We all know that if the general election in 1978 merely returns representation to normal, 20 Liberal members are going to leave this chamber. Obviously that is reinforced by what the Liberal Party has acquiesced inin this legislation tonight. 
In addition, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  referred to our objection to the provisions about a 7 year period between redistributions which is included in clause 10. He said that the fact that since Federation there have been 7 or 8 years between each redistribution was a good enough reason for including the provisions for a 7 year periodin this clause. Obviously the honourable member for Griffith suffered because when he went to school he was in a very large class and he could not hear the teacher clearly. To follow his theory through to its logical conclusion one has to believe that classrooms today still have to be the same size as when he went to school. He does not look at the effect or the impact of the - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 18 February 1976 I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-I continue my remarks about the honourable member for Griffith. He did not look at the impact or the effect of merely adopting some sort of blockbusting system whereby there will be a redistribution every X number of years. Let us relate the clauses together. Honourable members opposite have fallen for the 3-card trick, as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has said, by saying that districts of 5000 square kilometres will be looked upon as something separate. The Liberal Party has the opportunity in this Parliament more than in any other parliament since Federation to get on top of the rump in the corner. But again it has capitulated completely to the whims of the National Country Party. The National Country Party has taken the Liberal Party to the dry cleaners again. The Liberal Party does not have a clue what the legislation means. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  who has a shining badge around his neck will have to hand it over to the Labor candidate in 2 years. A lot of the others on that side of the House will have to do the same thing- a lot more than should have. This will occur because they have subjected themselves to the policies of the National Country Party. Members of the Liberal Party should know and realise whenever civil liberties are discussed that the garbage can of politics which sits in the Country Party corner does not give a damn about the civil liberties of members of the Liberal Party any more than it does about the people who support the Labor Party. This is nonsense about5000 square kilometres or an election at large if we cannot agree upon boundaries. What absolute nonsense. 
-It is being tied up beautifully. If the honourable member would just sit and listen - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles).Order!  A point of order has been taken. I have not replied to it yet. 
I knew that you were going to rule it out of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Port Adelaide will resume his seat. It would be alittle easier for the Chair to hear what is going on if there were less conversation and less shouting. I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide to try to tie his remarks to the clause. 
-It is impossible to talk about clause 1 1, which provides an escape valve if no agreement is reached on the redistribution, without talking about the rest of the legislation. I stand here and smile at the Liberal Party members who will be going back to their former occupations after the next election because they have subjected themselves to the whims of the National Country Party. They should sit in the corner which members of the National Country Party occupy and allow members of the National Country Party to occupy the benches which the Liberals occupy. In effect that is exactly what has happened. It happens every time we discuss this type of legislation. I cannot believe how time and time again members of the Liberal Party allow themselves to be manipulated by the National Country Party. I can understand it happening with the new members because they are allowed to be stupid. But how about the people who have been here for more than one Parliament? How about the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)?  He must know what is going on. Members of the Liberal Party are saving the coalition at their own expense. They will lose their seats. Because they cannot agreein comes clause 1 1 - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I say to the honourable member for Bendigo that the paragraph note beside clause 1 1 reads: 'Elections at large'. I think that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is pretty on line with elections at large. 
-I sympathise with the Deputy Chairman after looking at the map of South Australia, the State from which he comes. He should have our sympathy for what might happen in a redistribution. Clause 11 is just an escape clause in case we all cannot agree. But no method of voting is attained. I do not know whether honourable members opposite talked about elections at large in their Party room. 
-Well obviously the honourable member ought to have listened to his teacher. The honourable member's teacher should not have sat him at the back of the classroom with his boxing gloves on. The honourable member should have been down the front so that he could have listened to what his teacher was saying would happen. Obviously the honourable member has had second thoughts. He is going to give us some ideas on what this clause means. How can the Liberal Party possibly adopt some sort of scheme which relates to area? Do members of the Liberal Party know where the National Country Party will take them next? There are only 2 members of the National Country Party in here at the moment. One is getting a bit on and very cunning and the other bloke still does not know what is going on around him. Do the Liberals know what will happen next? Sam Calder will come in here and say: 'Look, I cannot serve the Northern Territory - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable gentleman should refer to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
-Do members of the Liberal Party know what the honourable member for the Northern Territory will come in here and say? He will say: 'Now that you have started to look at areas how can I look after the Northern Territory myself? I need another 4 members'. What will happen next? With this device the National Country Party with 8 per cent of the vote and 19 per cent of the members will maintain their numbers. The blokes sitting in the back benches and some of the fellows on the front benches are for ta-tas, and they voted for the legislation. The stupidity of members of the Liberal Party in again capitulating to the National Country Party is absolutely beyond me and all my colleagues on this side of the House. They continually capitulate. Whenever legislation of this type is introduced the newspapers say that the Liberal Party will stand up this time. They say that members of the Liberal Party have hairs on their chests. They say that this time the Liberal Party will tell the National Country Party to go to blazes. Each time I say to my colleagues: 'Do not believe that nonsense'. There must be a lot of new journalists in the House and they have to write something. This is the first time they have observed Parliament when this legislation is being introduced. When the crunch comes and Doug Anthony, Ian Sinclair and Peter Nixon walk in all the Libs are ice cream. They melt. They put up their hands. The honourable member for Holt puts up bis hand to say: 'I do not want to serve m the next Parliament. I want to go back to my bee keeping. I am sick and tired of door knocking. I do not like serving my time in the Parliament. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is upsetting me too much. I would rather see the National Country Party have this unequal power in the Parliament'. All the rest of them do the same. 
The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  knows what it is like to be out of Parliament. Why on earth did he seek to come back again? The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  ought to be giving evidence before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism because he surely is a tourist in the national Parliament. This type of legislation has become a national joke and m terms of people's civil liberties it is a national scandal. 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 3, 1 shall move: 
That a joint committee be established to inquire into and report upon the provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates in Federal election campaigns and the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance by corporations and individuals to these parties and candidates. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics been directed to cut a further $2m from its budget? Is it a fact that the only way the Bureau can comply with this directive is to cut the cost of processing the census forms? Would such a cut require the processing of every second form instead of every form? Would such a sample processing system place in very serious doubt the data received from these forms? Will the Treasurer assure the House that every form will be processed as was originally intended, commencing on 1 July? 
-The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights of which Australia is a signatory states: 
The will of the people . . . shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures. 
It has been the history of this country that we have seen conservative parties of this country, by whatever name they call themselves, be it the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the National Party or the National Country Party, place every obstacle in the way of equal suffrage in this country. This week again we have seen in Queensland an attempt by the National Country Party to further pervert the electoral system of that State. Throughout Australia we are still living with electoral systems which are both archaic and objectionable as far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned. We want to touch on some of these matters and continue to fight on behalf of all those people in Australia who consider themselves democrats, no matter what party to which they belong, for electoral justice in this country. It is of particular importance to the Labor Party because we cannot see our great social reforms go through whatever Parliament it may be, be it a State Parliament or a national Parliament, until we establish electoraljustice in this country. As yet it has only been established really and truly in one State and that is South Australia. I shall touch on this point a little later. 
Two great political crimes are being perpetrated in this country. I touch on those 2 crimes today. The first takes the form of the brain washing which is carried out on people who live in rural electorates. The brainwashing takes the form of persuading people who live outside the cities of Australia that by some strange act of fate they would be better off if the number of electors in the electorates outside the metropolitan areas were smaller than the number of electors in the electorates inside the metropolitan area and that the Parliament will best serve the people of the rural areas if they have more members of Parliament than the number of electors requires them to have. The second great crime being perpetrated in this country is the capitulation of the Liberal Party and the persuasion of members of our community who support that Party into believing that the coalition can continue only if the Liberal Party submits itself to the whims or the electoral wishes of the National Country Party. 
Let us look at these 2 theories which keep this coalition alive. Firstly, I should like some honourable member opposite to point out to us how, by having smaller rural electorates, the people living in the rural areas would be better off. I should like him to tell us how the number of members of the National Country Party has saved the beef industry. I wonder whether members of the National Country Party who are sitting in the chamber this morning can get up in this debate and say that by having more members than they are really entitled to they can save the beef industry. Let them tell us how the number of members of the National Country Party of this Parliament affects the great wheat or sugar industries. Let them tell us how the rural people are serviced in education, health or local government by having an undue number of members of Parliament from the country areas. It is an absolute myth that rural people will be better served in this way. The health services, the educational services and the building of local government were carried out only by a Labor Government- a government that believed in one vote one value. 
Let us look at the other myth that the Liberal Party capitulates completely to the National Country Party in order to maintain the coalition. We have seen this week the National Party in Queensland rubbing the nose of the Liberal Party right into the dirt. That is exactly what the National Party should do because the Liberal Party has been misrepresenting the people who vote for that Party. When we get away from the one vote one value system we are disenfranchising just as many people who vote for the Liberal Party as vote for the Labor Party. So there can be no break away from the one vote one value system. Let us look at how many times the National Country Party has threatened to break the coalition. A few years ago the Country Party threatened to walk out of the coalition if the dollar was valued upwards. Time and time again the Country Party has threatened to walk out of the coalition over proposed electoral reforms. When on earth will the Liberal Party wake up to the fact that the National Country Party has nowhere else to go? What other Party in Australia would want to be associated with the National Country Party? It would certainly not be our Party because the National Country Party stands for all the things we find objectionable and antisocial. So the National Country Party is not going to come to the Labor Party. When the National Country Party threatens to walk out on the Liberal Party it can either go by itself or it can capitulate and stay with the Liberal Party. Obviously that is what it will do, even on this extremely important question. Honourable members opposite have fought to save the coalition in Queensland and what has happened? The Liberal Party is the one being wiped out. The National Country Party is not content merely with having that majority in Queensland; it now wants to increase that majority, not only of members of the House but of members of the Cabinet. So Liberal Party influence in that State will be nowhere near the influence that it should hold according to the number of votes it receives in Queensland. So in that sense, the Liberal Party is receiving everything it deserves. 
That is exactly what happened in the national parliament. Whereas we received 43 per cent of the votes in 1975, we find ourselves with 28 per cent of the representatives in this chamber. But quite the opposite occurred in regard to the Country Party. It received 8 per cent or 9 per cent of the votes throughout the country but has about 20 per cent of the members of this House. What do Country Party members do? On what grounds can anyone make the case that the country is better off by having this number of Country Party members in the national Parliament? It is an absolute joke. Just as we have put ourselves at the bottom of the social ladder as members of Parliament by all these things, obviously we are bringing down the parliamentary system around our ears because we continue to live with these standards which were set in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. 
We have these Upper Houses around Australia, one of which is not even elected by the people. They are Upper Houses where the Labor Party receives a majority of votes at the elections but can get only four out of fifteen people elected. Honourable members opposite cannot tell me that the youth of this country are going to be enthusiastic about supporting a system which brings about these sorts of results. Just as surely as the Governor-General, on 11 November, stepped up the pace to bring about the break between Australia and the monarchy, so will it be the National Country Party and the Liberal Party which will bring about an end to the parliamentary system by trying to perpetuate this electoral fraud which they have thrust on the Australian people. Until we have the one vote one value system there will be no respect for the parliamentary system. There are no end of ways in which this fraud is being carried out. There is not just the gerrymander nor the 10 per cent or 20 per cent tolerance between urban and rural voters but all different systems. In Queensland we have the Bielke-Petersenmander which operates under different zones. There is not a straight out tolerance between urban and rural electors. 
In South Australia the one vote one value concept applies to both Houses. South Australia is the only State that has accomplished this. This was after we had the Playmander for 35 years.  Sir Thomas  Playford faced 9 elections and on one occasion he received the majority of votes. I repeat: On one occasion out of those 9 elections. Obviously people will continue to oppose the parliamentary system under which we are living. 
Now we have something new. We have the Frasermander. No one had thought of this previously but now we have an area- 5000 square kilometres- being put into an electoral redistribution. The Liberal Party does not have a clue as to what it means. The Country Party thought it up in order to sideswipe the challenge of a few of the back benchers of the Liberal Party to have a 10 per cent tolerance between urban and rural electorates. So up comes a new system- 5000 square kilometres. In the case of those members who represent coastal seats, it takes in a fair proportion of the sea. The 5000 square kilometres of the electorate of Barker in South Australia contains a fair bit of the area between the mainland and Kangaroo Island. So the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  is representing porpoises, fish and prawns. All this sort of thing is going on throughout Australia- all up and down the east and west coasts. The 5000 square kilometre theory takes in a fair bit of area where no one lives. 
The people of Australia must understand that it is not to their welfare that they should have coming in to the parliaments more people from the country areas than from the city. People who represent country areas obviously ought to have put at their disposal all the facilities that they need to represent their areas. Once one breaks away from the principle of one vote one value, there is no end to what happens. The tolerance becomes 10 per cent, 20 per cent or 50 per cent, or the size of the electorate becomes 5000 square kilometres, or there is a western zone, a northern zone or a metropolitan zone, or any sort of system at all which ensures that the Party in power stays in power. 
I refer particularly to the situation in Queensland where the stage has been reached at which the Westminster system has broken down completely. The Labor Party is prevented by the electoral laws of that State from ever governing again in that State. No fewer than 45 per cent of the people in that State support our Party. What do they do if they know they cannot win an election? Obviously they must look to some other system by which they can attain power. The warning is there for all to see, to take note of and to act upon. If these electoral frauds continue to be imposed upon the people of Australia we are helping to destroy the system which should be serving Australia well. The Country Party loves the system because it means that these goats from Hume and Riverina are elected by 20 000 or 30 000 fewer voters than their colleagues from the Liberal Party who represent seats in the metropolitan area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think the honourable member for Port Adelaide might withdraw that comment. 
-I withdraw it. I say that we might be better off having goats here. They might be concerned about some things. Let us look at some of the figures for recent elections. Look at the tolerance which has grown out of the breaking away from the principle of one vote one value. In New South Wales elections, based upon the Liberal Party's redistribution, seats are 26 per cent, 20 per cent, 29 per cent, 20 per cent, 28 per cent and 29 per cent below the quota. Of course, all of them are Liberal Party or Country Party seats- mainly Country Party seats. In the metropolitan area the seats which the Labor Party represents are 26 per cent above the quota. 
-The Labor Party is in government in New South Wales. We are winning sufficient seats to be a government. When Neville Wran points to these discrepancies or speaks about the democratisation of the Upper House, the conservative forces in Australia say that this is terrible. The Upper House in New South Wales meets with the Lower House to appoint members of the Upper House for 12 years. The people of New South Wales are not even given a vote. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  thinks that is terrific. It might be a good principle in the army, from where he comes, but it is not very good as far as the parliamentary system is concerned. The support of honourable members opposite for that system will destroy the enure system. That is a warning of which they should take note. 
Look at the figures for Queensland, where their great hero Bjelke-Petersen rules. Look at the quotas in Queensland where the Country Party wins all its seats. The seats are 50 per cent, 25 per cent, 31 per cent, 42 per cent and 51 per cent below the quota which is needed for a metropolitan seat. Last night in Queensland, as my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  will highlight, the Liberal and Country parties reached a compromise. Do honourable members opposite know that compromise? Country electorates will have 6000 voters and metropolitan electorates will have 18 000 voters. What a compromise for the Liberal Party to reach with the National Country Party. No wonder the Liberal Party gets its nose rubbed in the dirt. The National Party ought to continue to do so until the branches of the Liberal Party, the rank and file members of the Liberal Party throughout Australia, demand a better service from the members that they sent to the parliaments of Australia. Until we either democratise the Upper Houses or completely abolish them and have a unicameral system based on the principle of one vote one value, we can expect the continued disrespect of the population of this country. It is a great fight. The Labor Party is in the vanguard. We do not intend to let up on it. We intend that one future generation of the Labor Party shall win it for the benefit of all people who live in this country. 
I also welcome the opportunity to participate in this discussion because I think it highlights the need in Australia for long term policies. I want to concentrate some of my comments on the impact on industry of future decisions of the Government on the population. Several Government supporters talked about it being government policy to have a net increase through new arrivals of something like 70 000 a year. According to the Green Paper, we are then talking about the Government having in its mind a population by 2000 of something like 18.5 million. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  shakes his head. I have just done a very rough bit of arithmetic. I take it that the mathematics in the Green Paper are correct. It talks about an annual increase of 50 000 giving a population of 17.6 million and an annual increase of 100 000 giving a population of 19 million by the year 2000. It seems extremely important to me that in one way or another the Parliament gets its thinking straight on what is to occur. 
Some of the points made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  are easily refuted. He talked about the Government perhaps invoking policies that would encourage larger families in this country. That swims against what has happened. An increased number of women have now tasted the benefits of a second income coming into the home, especially during the boom of 1974. The Government will have to burn the candle for a long time and work hard to come up with a policy to attract women back into the home from the work place. It would seem to me that irrespective of the policies that may be enunciated oy the Government over the next year or two about what population goal it is setting, nothing will happen to offset the trend towards a larger proportion of our work force being women. We had better face up to that fact and try to build our policies around it. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  dealt with the question of the shortfall in the labour force. We often hear the cry that there is a shortage of skilled labour. At the moment industry surveys- they are pretty rough surveysshow that there is a shortage of skilled labour in Australia. I have often been mystified by this shortage. I have been a critic of the way in which our apprenticeship system has operated in that we can have X number of apprentices taken into industry this year and then we hear that there is to be an economic recession next year and the number will be reduced by 25 or 50 per cent. That seems to me to be a pretty loose way of trying to organise the work force in a country like our own. What the Minister should be cognisant of is that because of the wage structure many trained tradesmen leave their trade. The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and my colleagues who work in the metal trades tell me that a vast number of trained fitters, boilermakers, etc., have taken other jobs for a higher pay. 
-It may be a margin for skill, but now we have done away with the margin for skill it is just a total income. It is not uncommon in my electorate to find that someone driving a truck has done his time as a fitter or boilermaker. Both sides, employer and employee, agree that the person who has missed the boat as far as wage relativity has been concerned over the last IS years is the fitter, around whom of course the wage structure of most wage earners revolved for so many years. So when the Minister talks about perhaps supplementing the number of skilled tradesmen in Australia by bringing people in from overseas he should take into account what has been the local experience, and that is that a lot of trained tradesmen have been attracted away from their trades by the wage structure that applies in this country. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was making the point to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that the question of skilled labour needs far greater research in Australia than has already been undertaken. Perhaps there needs to be far more encouragement by way of incentives to people to retain their trades, because experience has shown that people leave their trades. Obviously that is one of the things that has to be overcome if we are not to bring in further skilled labour to meet the shortages that are reported from time to time within industry. Another point mentioned in the Green Paper is the traditional source of migrants coming to this country. It has been made obvious from previous speeches by the Minister that we can no longer rely on those traditional sources. It is not merely Australia's decision that we will have a net increase in settlement of 20 000, 40 000, 60 000 or 100 000 and that these people will come from the same countries as our migrants came from between 1945 and 1975. 
According to the Minister's speeches in the past and according to the research that has been carried out by the Department, a great deal more will have to be done in relation to the source of that increased number of skilled people coming to Australia. I think that also ought to be the subject of far greater debate than the few minutes allowed to us here. Whilst I believe that in 
Australia we have overcome many of the problems that may have existed decades ago, nevertheless there are some very sensitive areas. I am sure that the Minister would agree that these matters have to be handled in such a way as to permit complete communication between the Government and the Australian people about who comes here, who settles here and how they fit in. So I hope that the Minister will be able to give us an insight into the departmental thinking about the traditional sources of migrants. 
One of the unresolved questions in Australia is the industry that needs to be retained for defence purposes. I do not want to spend too much time on this topic. There does not seem to be any end to the inquiry. At the moment 2 inquiries that I know of are proceeding. Obviously there are industries which relate directly to our defence capacity. Those inquiries ought to be completed. We should be making a decision about the industries which we want to keep here. It is true that some members of the Australian work force will no longer work in certain industries. We must discuss and debate how we can overcome these problems without making some sort of unilateral decision over the heads of all the people who will be involved. 
I noted also in the Green Paper that the Department seems to discount any decision that we make here in Australia and its impact on world population. Irrespective of the issue, some people say that it does not really matter what we do in Australia as it will not have any influence outside Australia. I have heard the same thing said about defence, migration and population. I have heard it said about uranium. It seems to me to be a very servile attitude on the part of any committee to say that it does not really matter what we do or what decision we take as it will not have any impact on what happens elsewhere. Looking at Australia from an overseas point of view, to talk about having a population in the year 2000 of 17.6 million, or 18.5 million or 20 million- in that range- when we think of Asia having another 600 million it seems a fairly puny argument. Nevertheless we should not get down on our knees and say that it does not really matter what we decide because governments have a first responsibility to people in their own country to see that they are living a decent life. 
I turn now to the question of the number of people leaving Australia. I want to refer specifically to Australians. Whilst the report mentioned the total number, it failed to delve into the reasons why people leave Australia. There seems to me to be some argument advanced that a lot of people are leaving Australia because of the breakdown in technological advances in industry. Evidence was put before the Labor Party by several of the organisations representing these people that there was a shortage of opportunity here in Australia and that was why a lot of them were going overseas. I think that the Minister ought to look in more detail not only at the number of people leaving Australia but also at what skills they represent. 
I agree with the honourable member for Lilley on one point. He said that it seemed that the Green Paper was taken up with immigration and perhaps submerged the total question of population. I think that I am the ninth  speaker  in this debate and no one has yet mentioned the Aboriginal people. The Green Paper points out that the situation of the Aboriginal people is quite different from the overall expectation of the community. I think that it is incumbent on any government to step up its policies to deal with the problems that may exist in that area. The numbers of Aboriginals will increase and we may need to do more for them than we have done in the past few years. 
I have already touched on the question of women in the work force, which was also mentioned in the Green Paper. The honourable member for Lilley ought to look at that subject because there is an obvious desire, which is easily understood, for women to go to work. Personally, I would encourage it. I do not think that the Government will come up with any ideas that will attract a woman to have more children than she desires when she is first married and to give up the opportunity of going back to work. That seems to be the normal situation in Australia. The work force will be greatly advantaged by that situation. Those industries that are looking ahead to see what work force may be available to them in the future ought to look seriously at what jobs can be done by women in their particular industries. 
I make the point that this report and this discussion are important to industry. In our country we have some very large labour intensive industries. If the figure given in the Green Paper relating to the fertility rate is correct and there is no gain at all in immigration we will have a very low population by the year 2000 compared with what we may have anticipated 10 years ago. If there are something like 300 000 or 400 000 workers dependent on an industry such as the motor car industry it seems to me that it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to maintain an industry of that size with the lower population figures and the education figures projected in the Green Paper. 
My task is to raise in the minds of those people in industry the importance of the population debate. I hope that a few of them will start to take the subject a little more seriously than they may have done in the past because it may be possible to keep protecting industries by very high tariffs but we are living in a world in which there will be great change. Obviously, with another 500 million or 600 million more people in Asia, that will be the home for labour intensive industries. As against that, none of us who have children ut school are training them for or hoping that they will be able to get a job on the assembly line. The attitudes and the behaviour of parents in setting ideals for their sons and daughters have changed quite radically. We are not training our children either at school or in the home to take jobs in labour intensive industries. There is a big question mark, in my view, hanging over the future of the major labour intensive industries in this country and it is going to need a vast structural adjustment program to include this training. 
On the question of any stepping up of the immigration program on the basis of family reunions this will necessarily mean that because most migrant families live in Melbourne or Sydney there will be an increase in the population in those 2 cities. A family in Sydney is not going to bring out members of its family and settle them in Alice Springs or in Broome. Obviously families will want to have relatives as close to them as they possibly can be. This will mean an increase in population, although not frightening as far as I am concerned, for the cities of Melbourne and Sydney. 
In conclusion, I also make the point- and I know how anxious you are,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to tell me my time has expired - 
-If the first figure in the Green Paper be correct, then the Government of the day, whether it be a conservative government or a Labor government, has to look very, very close at putting aside resources to care for the aged. 
-I want to make a quick reference to a couple of points made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  I refer to his very vulgar attack on the author and Australian, Donald Home. If members of the National Country Party had looked in the libraries of the schools in their electorates they would have noticed that the Australian Schools Commission which was established by the former Labor Government was able to furnish millions of books throughout Australia for school children and might have applauded the placing in the shelves of the book  The Lucky Country.  Donald Home seems to have fallen into disfavour with the National Country Party because he then wrote a book called  Death of the Lucky Country.  I recommend to the honourable member for Darling Downs that he should read about some of the activities of the Un-American Activities Committee which tried to freeze any discussion in the United States by persecuting authors, writers and creative people in that country. By the attitude which he is expressing in this House he is doing exactly the same thing. Donald Home is one of the very few people who commands a massive audience wherever he goes throughout Australia speaking on the subject of the future Constitution of this country. I suggest to the honourable member that if he wanted to debate with Donald Home, he would be pleased to do so. I am sure that he would arrange the venue. In the meantime, if the honourable member checks with the libraries in Toowoomba he will find that books written by Donald Home are being read by his constituents, who take a far more intelligent attitude than he does. 
The honourable member referred to the Governor-General as a great Australian about 8 times. I will applaud that statement to the extent that the Governor-General is a great Australian because following his taking the action of 11 November 1975 recent polls have shown that the majority of Australians now favour a republic. To that extent, when the question of a republic in this country is discussed in the future honourable members on the other side of the House will be able to applaud the actions of the GovernorGeneral as having started the great motivation that Australian people now feel towards becoming a republic. To that extent he has done the people who want Australia to become a republic more good than a thousand speeches would have done and more good than the action of 500 000 people marching down the streets of Sydney or Melbourne.  His  action on 11 November 1975 alone has provoked a lot more people into believing that Australia ought to be a republic. On that point I agree with the honourable member. 
This Government once again has shown its limitations and shortcomings. In the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen on behalf of the Fraser Government at the opening of the Thirtieth Parliament business, as well as the Opposition, expected a recognition of the plight of Australian industry. To take it one step further, the Opposition expected official recognition of the much leaked, much publicised and much promised White Paper on manufacturing industry. This Government purports to be a government of business but there was not a word, not a passing reference, to manufacturing industry. Industry, with all its urgent problems stands abandoned because of the ineptitude of a government unable to come to grips with the pressures and problems in this area. The 
Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry was promised 16 months ago. It was promised in the 1975 election campaign. Several drafts have appeared, have been leaked to the Press and then have disappeared. The Government is feeling the temperature of the water with its toe before taking the plunge. It is not prepared to tackle the problems; so industry, already bedevilled by, in Australian standards, massive structural adjustment now knows that it is dealing with a government which believes in double dealing, which is quite expert in the practice and which tries desperately to disguise its limitations. 
We are witnessing the dismantling of industries in the short term while this Government, in a most infantile fashion, tries to decide upon policies to suit the long term. This malaise within the Government is one of the strongest features sending Australian industries off-shore. It is not the sole reason of course but how can industry operate in a theatre of uncertainty? Who would take the investment risk of staying in Australia where there is a government with no decisions, no policies, no understanding and no capacity to meet the problems? This is at a time when Asian countries have established long term planning arrangements. Could anyone imagine Korea, Taiwan, Singapore or the Philippines telling potential investors that there is likely to be a change in government policy every one or two years? 
These countries promise something which is necessary and which this Government has completely bungled. I refer to long term assurances. Now, at a time of economic recession in this country, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is acting well outside his charter in encouraging Asian countries to commence an onslaught on the protection given to Australian industries. The relationship between the Asian countries and Australia is seen by the Labor Party as a top priority. It is not a winner-take-all relationship but one of balanced trade arrangements accommodating our advanced technology with the industries of the region. While there are many variables in Labor Party policy with regard to tariffs and protection, there should be no misunderstanding which would consciously put Australian people out of work. A policy leading to the removal of existing protection measures, with few available employment opportunities for the Australian work force is, in the opinion of the Labor Party, a very questionable policy. 
Basic among the responsibilities of the government of any country is the provision of employment for all those who wish to work. However, it seems that this Government is intent on seeing that fewer and fewer people find employment in our manufacturing industry. People should be the first consideration in formulating policies. While the Australian economy sinks progressively into a state of permanent recession the Australian Labor Party has continued to look for policy initiatives to serve as the basis for constructive debate and the eventual implementation of a bipartisan approach to the most serious economic decline in Australia since the 1929 depression. The Opposition expected this Government to be waiting for the Queen's opening of Parliament as the appropriate moment to unveil these long awaited policies. Instead, this nation was treated to a speech bereft of so much content that it must surely have been the most embarrassing moment of the Queen's tour. It is obvious that the Government intends to do virtually nothing, in terms of specific implementation of policies, at least to alleviate, let alone correct, the current economic situation. 
Why is it that the self proclaimed experts in economic management are so incapable of action? One could canvass the capabilities of the front bench but that would only be part of the reason. A more significant factor is the desperate adherence of the Government to a now completely outmoded form of economic management based on pre- World War II notions of  laissez-faire  capitalism, to which has now been added the weird beliefs of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in economic individualism as expounded by the American novelist Ayn Rand. Discarded are the now well developed paths of overall industrial policy, close and continuing guidance of specific industries towards development consistent with a nation's comparative advantages and positive programs of job creation. 
Put simply, the Government is sitting on its hands hoping that something will turn up. It claims that it is looking for an investment led recovery but it consistently fails to answer the question: Why would any company seek to add to capacity when there exists substantial unused capacity due to the levelling off or even decline in consumer demand through progressive reductions in the purchasing power of real wages as a result of plateau indexation, the Medibank levy and the still high incidence of tax increases through steeply progressive taxation? In 1976 consumers lost at least 5 per cent of their real purchasing power as a result of the Government's policies. It has taken a little time for this to filter through to the community as people offset their loss of purchasing power by cutting back on non-essentials and using available lines of credit. The remorseless squeezing of the economy by this Government is now having its effect. Consumer spending in January and February declined alarmingly, to the extent that even traditional supporters of the Liberal Party in the financial sector and in major industries are publicly expressing their alarm at the rapid deterioration of the economy. Just consider the events of the past month or so. Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has decided not to re-open its recently refitted blast furnace and this could result in the dismissal of about 1200 employees. The building industry is visibly collapsing by the week. One major company after another is either going into liquidation or incurring massive losses which will be offset only by drastic reductions in trading actively and further unemployment. The consumer durables industry is laying off people as sales fall away as a result of the progressive decline in consumer confidence and the slump in the building industry.  Mr Gale  and certain of his friends, the directors of Gollin and Co. who provided so much economic advice to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  have eventually found that even when one is the personal friend of the Prime Minister one cannot keep a onceproud company afloat. What hope have other companies that are not privy to the Prime Minister's personal thoughts? And just to 'speed things on their way' this Government chooses this moment to close down virtually the entire shipbuilding industry in Australia, throwing further tens of thousands of employees, who are employed directly and indirectly in this industry, on to the dole. 
What is this Government's reaction to this snowballing collapse of the Australian economy? It claims that the unemployment figures are 'a myth' and that anyone can get work 'if he really wants to'. It claims that if we deduct this or that portion of the consumer price index the measure of inflation will, of course, be less than that indicated by the Government statisticians. It claims that various economic indications show that the economy is beginning to improve when the key indicators of unemployment and inflation continue to rise, and investment in the principal industry sectors continues to fall. Finally, it embarks on a union-bashing campaign, in a desperate attempt to prove that somehow this Government's weird economic policies are not the reason for the worsening economic situation but rather it is all the fault of the unions. 
When will this Government concede that it is essential, in attempting to control a wage-price spiral, that increases in both wages and prices are subject to judicial justification? The Prices Justification Tribunal has been virtually gutted of any real temporising effect on the mad scramble to increase prices. The corporate profits which improved so well during 1976 were not channelled into corporate liquidity, as the Government anticipated when it took further counter measures to reduce bank liquidity. Where is the Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry that it trumpeted so loudly a year agothe White Paper that was supposed to set out a framework of co-operation between industry, government and the unions in getting Australian manufacturing industry into a basis of growth and profitability? Like so many other longneeded initiatives that Labor was moving towards when it was in government, it would appear that the White Paper has been shelved- a sacrifice to the Liberal Party's archaic thoughts on a  laissez-faire  economy. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the role of the Australian Government with respect to manufacturing industry is to provide a long term guidance to the industry by way of a continuing indicative planning process. This process must be based on participative industrial democracy and the acknowledgment of the current and developing comparative advantages of Australia against its international competitors- in potential scales of production, the selective application of limited research facilities to the greatest effect, the natural endowments of physical resources and the educational level and social structure of our work force. This indicative planning process must be reinforced where selectively required with government direction through adjustment of the economic indicators by which the private enterprise system operates. Such economic directions must be seen to be part of a longer term perspective if industry is to obtain the essential confidence to commit capital to investment in additional plant and equipment. Manufacturing industry is concentrated in a city-urban environment, is the largest single employer of labour, and fulfils a vital socio-economic role by providing a wide variety of employment opportunities which cannot otherwise be created. It cannot be ignored. 
While the tertiary industry sector continues to increase its share of total employment, it must be recognised that much of this growth is based ultimately on the growth of manufacturing industry, whether it be direct employment of clerical and administrative staff to direct the operation of labour and the increasing degree of capital investment in production processes, or indirectly through the retail, transport, insurance, banking, communications, and office services staff which in turn supply the services of an advanced economy to the employees of manufacturing industry, and to each other. 
The Australian Government must therefore seek to ensure that its general economic policies and its assistance policies for manufacturing industry are directed to ensuring that sufficient demand for employment is generated in manufacturing industry to result in a total direct and indirect demand in all employment categories that will balance the potential supply of labour. Finally, an Australian government must attempt to maintain a degree of balance in manufacturing industry so that shifts in technology and terms of trade allow Australian industry to take up market opportunities and to maintain a measure of national independence through the capacity to supply the defence forces in times of bad international relations. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a message sent to the American Congress by President Carter on or about 22 March in which he sought extensions to the electoral laws of that country? The amendments that he sought would in effect mean that the public purse could be used to subsidise all House of Representatives and Senate elections, in addition to presidential elections, and would mean that a ceiling would be placed on the amount which any candidate could spend. Is the Prime Minister also aware that President Carter put as his reason for such changes that 'public financing is workable and widely accepted by the American people'? In view of this, I ask the Prime Minister whether he will now accept the need for the setting up of a joint committee of this Parliament to look at such questions in Australia? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In accordance with decisions made by the Prices Justification Tribunal prior to last Thursday to allow price increases to some industries, will those industries be allowed during the next three months to put up their prices? 
-I wish to raise a point of order,  Mr Speaker,  concerning the comments contained in a question asked at question time by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I ask,  Mr Speaker,  whether in your opinion we may regard as parliamentary the term 'mainland gangsters' used to describe some section of the Australian community. A number of honourable members on this side of the House are former trade union officials and perhaps we saw the Parliament being used in that way. I think on one occasion he described people in his electorate as hoboes and drunks, but to call people mainland gangsters - 
-I wish to second the motion. 
It is incredible almost to the point of being unbelievable that the Government has denied its responsibility to raise this matter of national importance in the Parliament today. 
-I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for your ruling. Obviously there is reluctance on behalf of the Government to have this matter discussed. There is an obvious reluctance on the part of the Prime Minister to give specific answers to specific questions on this matter of national importance. We have found an incredible situation today - 
-I will tell the honourable member where I stand. I think this Government is continuing on its path of trying to. hoodwink wage and salary earners so that the real wages of people at the end of this year - 
There are a number of matters about which the Australian public obviously is entitled to know and which have not been explained to us today. We find that the Government has endorsed the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  moving some flimsy resolution as a matter of public importance so that debate on that matter can take place, yet 2 1 Ministers do not have the courage to get up and defend the decision which has been taken and which affects everybody living in this country. 
We hear talk about the wives of trade union people. The wives of trade union people and the wives of all wage and salary earners want to know what will happen with the prices of vegetables, meat and old products that are newly packaged. What will happen to all the products on the supermarket shelves that were discounted last week but which are back to normal prices this week? What will happen to all the rents and interest rates? We want to know quite specifically what will happen. The only thing we know is that the Government wants the cancellation of the 2 national wage hearings. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  says that it will be very difficult for some of the companies not to take the price increases which have been granted to them by the Prices Justification Tribunal prior to last Thursday because they are based on price increases which occurred in the last quarter. The next national wage hearing is based upon the price increases which are already flowing throughout the community. The Government is asking people to take a substantial drop in their living standards of no less than 4 per cent. The Government knows and the Treasury knows that it is the experience of all overseas countries that this is a sham. 

 - Mr Speaker, I think it is very relevant in that the Opposition is asking someone from the Government to get on his feet, to stop quibbling about the actions of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975, to take responsibility for the Government's own actions in 1977 and tell us what the hell is going on in Australia. What is the Government supposed to be doing? Out of the blue, after a Premiers Conference, we are told that there will be a wage and price freeze for 3 months. No one had heard of it before. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a broadcast to the nation 4 days before the announcement yet it was not mentioned. Now we are told that the billions of dollars worth of goods coming in from overseas will be subject to the freeze. The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  has nothing to say about building materials. What about all the goods that have quotas put on them on an annual basis. Will they not come in over the next 3 months? Will those quotas be met in a 9-month period instead of in a 12-month period? Are we going to tell all the other countries in the world that they are not to put up the prices of goods which flow to Australia? 
We have an incredible situation and we want to know quite specifically what will happen. We do not want to be told in very broad terms what will happen. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has said- this must be the climax of question time- that the doctors have told him that they would be prepared, as part of the package, to forgo any fee increases between now and the end of the year. On average, general practitioners have a yearly income of $60,000. They could forgo an increase in fees for the next 10 years. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister making an immediate statement setting out in specific terms the guidelines on the wages and prices freeze which he indicates has been in effect for 5 days, specifically whether primary products, perishable goods, imports, tariff charges and the flow-on of the March indexation decisions, which have been the subject of conflicting statements by the Prime Minister, State Premiers and Federal Ministers, are involved in the freeze and under what circumstances and by what means the prices control will be implemented and maintained. 
I have just been notified by the Attorney-General of South Australia that today we have come another step along the path of trying to establish electoral justice in South Australia. The Privy Council has thrown out the challenge to the validity of the legislation which will bring about a major electoral redistribution in that State and thus end more than 100 years of electoral injustice. I think it is a great thing not just for the Government that has brought about this change in the laws but also for all the people in South Australia who have consistently voted against governments which have tried to introduce boundaries which favour their own political parties. I raise this matter tonight because I think it is important and relevant, particularly now when we see what is happening in the Federal sphere with regard to electoral redistribution. We have come from an almost feudal state in South Australia as far as people's attitudes or the attitude of the rulers of that State to the rights of people are concerned to the stage today where obviously those who observe the electoral laws of the various States and of the Commonwealth would regard South Australia as being the guiding light on the rights of people. 
I well recall the attack made by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley).  He said that the laws that had been drawn up in South Australia were designed to favour the present Government. What he did not tell the Parliament, of course, was that no one voted against the terms of reference of the redistribution when they were presented to the House of Assembly or to the Legislative Council in South Australia. In fact, the people who had been appointed as commissioners were none other than the Electoral Commissioner, the Surveyor-General and one other person whose name I cannot bring to mind. It would do the Minister for the Capital Territory well if I drew his attention to the speech made by  Senator Hall  in the Senate following the Minister's attack on those people so that he could see what  Senator Hall  had to say in relation to the redistribution which has taken place in South Australia. 
To give some idea of the impact it is having in that State, until 1965, for every electorate in the metropolitan area there were 2 electorates in country areas, irrespective of the fact that 66 per cent of the people of that State lived in the city. Under the regime of  Sir Thomas  Playford it was impossible for the Labor Party to win an election. It was only the spread of the metropolitan area into the country electorates, that eventually allowed the Labor Party, with 56 per cent of the vote, to win by one seat. In South Australia there will now be one vote one value. In the Legislative Council the situation was even worse. There were 5 districts with 4 members, and it was always the case of 16 conservative members and 4 Labor members. The only reason there were 4 Labor members was because the conservative parties decided not to contest one electorate. Today the whole State of South Australia comprises the electorate which, at each State election, elects 1 1 members of the Legislative Council. The party that receives the majority vote receives the majority of members. So we have come a long way between 1 965, when the first Labor Government for 33 years was elected, and today when we would hope the final attempt by those who want to continue with the old, unjust laws has come to an end. 
I hope that all the people in South Australia will now accept that it is right to have one vote one value in the House of Assembly and that it is right and correct in a bicameral system that the Legislative Council itself be elected on the most just terms. In fact I believe this will lead for the first time to a Labor majority in that House after the next elections. An enormous step has been taken by the South Australian Government. I think great credit is due to the Premier, who has led the fight for 25 years, and the very talented new Attorney-General of that State, Peter Duncan, for the success that the Government in that State has achieved. I only wish the national Parliament would be cognisant of what has happened so that we could establish the same just, acceptable laws for the people throughout Australia in electing the national Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to a public notice on page 16 of today's Melbourne  Sun,  put in by the Foodlands stores, which states: 
We, the nominated independently owned food stores, licensed stores, and supermarkets, commit ourselves to a voluntary program of  price  crusade and undertake to responsibly freeze the prices of those products where such action is possible. Where control of costs is out of our hands as in the case of tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate, together with fresh meat and produce we will endeavour to . . . keep increases . . . to a minimum ... 
Will the Minister reassure the House and the people that the prices of such meat and produce will be frozen? 
I second the motion and I want to speak to it. A statement on this question was promised by the Government yesterday. No Minister has yet been prepared to speak on the subject in the Parliament. The wages and prices freeze is supposedly put forward seriously as a matter of great national consequence; yet the Government is too afraid to debate the question. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable' member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
What have you got if they put you up? You are a big enough nong. 

<graphic href="104131197704203_13_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704203_13_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put. 
I am not sure whether the Government intends to impose a freeze on these proposed bounties and whether the industries involved may have to wait for the 3 month period to elapse. Nevertheless, these 3 bounty Bills- the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill 1977, the Bed Sheeting Bounty Bill 1977 and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill 1977- are all of immense importance to the industries involved. While the Opposition has no objection to the bounties as they are proposed in the Bills before us, nevertheless there are some comments we wish to make. I think that general approval would be given to the bounty system as against the general tariff system. That is particularly the case inasmuch as the tractor industry, the bed sheeting industry and the data processing industry are concerned, as it is a far cheaper way for Australia to give to local industry the protection that may be required than applying a general duty. There are some similarities between the positions in which the bed sheeting industry and the tractor industry of Australia find themselves. 
However, in the first instance, I direct my attention to the agricultural tractor industry. It is certainly not an industry which has been ignored. It has had a bounty payable to it for something like 50 years and there have been 15 Tariff Board reports on the industry in that period. There are 1400 Australians employed in local manufacture. The bounty will attract in its first year $5m, but that figure will reduce to $3m in the early 1980s. There may be some problems in that regard, but it would be far too early to predict those problems now in 1977. Our local industry has only 20 per cent of our total market. 
I think that those people who have taken the trouble to read through the discussion paper put out by the Industries Assistance Commission in 1 975 would have noticed that the IAC itself drew attention to the characteristics of our industry here in Australia. I will list just a couple of them. Firstly, as in the case of so many products in Australia, we have a very small market. The market in Australia is only about one-tenth of the size of the market in the United States. We have a great number of makes and models of tractors in Australia. The number is up to, and perhaps exceeding, 100. The shareholdings of the market by overseas manufacturers, of course, total about 80 per cent. As the product is predominantly directed towards agriculture, the manufacture of tractors depends very much upon the fortunes of those people employed in those industries. Whilst sales did not fluctuate very much, say, between 1965-66 and 1973-74- only between 16 500 and 17 000- in that period there were some very violent fluctuations which were based upon the fortunes of rural industry. For instance, in 1968-69 we had a total market of 19 300 tractors in Australia, while in 1970-71 the total was only 13 300. Depressed world prices for primary products and a generally unfavourable outlook for rural industries can bring about such a result. However, a notable feature of tractor usage has been a shift to higher powered tractors to which the proposed bounty is adjusting, and obviously that will give local manufacturers a better opportunity to increase their share of the market. 
I refer to the discussion paper of the IAC inasmuch as we can see from it quite clearly exactly what is happening in relation to the projections for the period between now and 1983-84. 1 refer to pages 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 5 and Appendix 6 of that discussion paper which show quite clearly the direction away from the light and lower medium tractors in the Australian market to the upper medium and heavy tractors. Obviously our local manufacturers, who base their technology very much upon that which comes to them from their parent companies, will be aware of the wants and the demands of the market and will obviously be able not only to maintain their share but also perhaps to increase it. Although I have not spoken to the Minister about this, I seek leave to have the pages of the IAC discussion paper to which I referred incorporated in 

 Hansard. Those pages deal with the projected sales of tractors between 1974-75 and 1983-84. 
-The Opposition is seeking an explanation of the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Opposition does not wish to waste the time of the House in exploring the relationship between Australia and New Zealand on the question of trade. Members of the Opposition have absolutely no opposition to the repeal of the legislation which obviously has become redundant in its operation, it is certainly not operative in terms of the manner in which it was set up and in its usage. Let me just say that the fact that we have no opposition in no way underestimates the importance the Opposition places on trading relations between Australia and New Zealand. Whilst we will not explore the ramifications of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, perhaps it would be wise for the Government to consider making a statement on the Agreement so that the Parliament could debate this matter and perhaps become a little better informed on how the relationship is developing after over 10 years of operation of the Agreement. I think it would be a vast improvement for the Parliament to do so rather than for members to rely on ministerial handouts at the conclusion of ministerial meetings. As I have said, the Opposition supports the measure before the House. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I ask: Has the Government taken any action to prevent General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd from closing down all its Australian plants? Further, has the Government given consideration to what will be the role of the Government in the post-freeze period in relation to claims going before the Prices Justification Tribunal from the car industries for price increases? Will the Government support or oppose companies making up losses suffered during the so called price freeze? 
-We returned to this House a little less than 3 weeks ago, in the week immediately following the announcement by the Government that Australia was to enjoy a prices and wages freeze. On the very first day that we returned to this House we sought from the Government an opportunity to question in debate the ramifications of that announcement and the way in which it would affect particularly the wage and salary earners in this country. Until today, we have been denied this right. Until today we have been denied this sort of information. The Government's statement is short on information as to the impact of the socalled wages and prices freeze. Not only does it have ramifications within Australia but the announcement by the Government, after what appeared to be a 1 5 minute discussion at the conclusion of the Premiers Conference, has brought Australia into some sort of international ridicule among countries which observed the mammoth devaluation late last year, together with the announcement, after as I said, a 15 minute discussion, of a wages and prices freeze. This action has brought upon Australia the scorn of international financial and economic observers. I should like to refer to the  Economist  of 16 April. On that day the  Economist  stated: 
Snap freeze, might not last. Only four months ago after the devaluation of the Australian dollar by 17.S per cent, the Liberal-Country party coalition this week took economic ad hockery to new heights. Emerging from a meeting with the Premiers of the six Australian states, the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, announced on the steps of parliament in Canberra a three-month voluntary wage and price freeze. Cabinet colleagues and official advisers were stunned- 
Certainly the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who is at the table, was stunned- the idea had only been raised a few hours earlier, by the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Dick  Hamer, and was expected to get short shrift. 

 Mr Fraser's Canberra two step is only the latest sign of uncertainty in Australia's economic management. No sooner had the November devaluation been decided than the currency rate managers started hauling it back up to give what is now only a 12.2 per cent devaluation. This retreat was acknowledgment that the Government had devalued too much in the first place, and was worried that it would fuel inflation rather than exports. How long before  Mr Fraser's  second thoughts on the freeze? 
So as I have said, not only have people poured scorn and ridicule on the idea here in Australia but also internationally it has done Australia grave damage. 
I want to take the House step by step through the Minister's statement and show what has happened in Australia subsequent to the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I want to make the point that the 7 heads of government agreed that it was to be a voluntary wage and price freeze. The voluntary section of the price and wage freeze disappeared within about 48 hours as this Government announced that it was to be a mandatory wage freeze and a voluntary price freeze. Subsequently the Victorian Premier, the South Australian ' Premier, the New South Wales Premier, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and all other peak union councils withdrew from giving it any support. 
The Minister told us in the opening paragraph of his statement that yesterday the submission from the national Government- a submission to put aside this national wage hearing for the March quarter-was rejected by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet we have this statement before the House today telling us that there is still some hope for the wage-price freeze. This seems to fly in the face of the announcement by  Mr George  Polites, the employers' representative, that companies ought to get their applications before the Prices Justification Tribunal as quickly as possible. The Minister shakes his . head, which seems to be a more sensible sign - than anything contained in the document Let me put it this way: Perhaps the Minister is shaking his head because he thinks that it really does  matter if one only gets one's application before the PJT because the impact of the price increase does not matter until it takes effect But if we look at the piece of arithmetic that is now in motion in - Australia and if on the day the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission were to give its decision that an across-the-board 2.3 per cent wage increase was to take place in Australia and if the PJT were to announce all the price increases in the pipeline, then obviously the wheel would be started again. A new national wage case would be in the making immediately and there would be no 2.3 per cent in the next quarter because obviously what the Government is doing is creating an oversupply of price increases which wal hit us in one go. It may happen on 23 May, it may happen on 23 June or it may happen on 23 July, but , somewhere along the Une in the not too distant : future the Australian consumer is going to be hit with a deluge of price increases which will make  prices appear as though they are skyrocketing on ' every commodity in A-ustralia 
The Government seems to gain great comfort from the fact that a Morgan gallop POll showed that 75 per cent of the Australian people initially supported the wage-price freeze. I suspect that one could cite the ANOP poll carried out for the Australian Broadcasting Commission which showed that just as many people believed the freeze was a phoney as those who believed it might do some good. But the Australian people, having been hoaxed by the promises of this Government in November 1975, when it told  them that all their economic problems would end with a change of government, are looking for some recipe which will give a hope of getting them out of the economic malaise Australia may be in. Obviously, if a question is framed in a certain way, one is going to assist the sort of response that is sought. It is a very dishonest way in which to conduct a poh. 
It is not the first time the Morgan gallup poll has been responsible for this type of dishonesty. It is notorious for the last polls it took in 1972, the last of which showed that the coalition partnersthe Liberal Party and the Country Partywere going to win the election that was due to be held. Prior to the display of the figures by the Morgan gall.up poll people,  Mr Morgan  publicly told us that he was a great supporter of the Liberal Party, which certainly had influenced the outcome of that p911. So here again we have  Mr Morgan,  doing his part as a stooge for the Government, giving a result of a poll showing that 75 per cent of the people supported a priceswages freeze. 
Not only does aU the evidence fly in the face of the result of that phoney pOll, but as each day passes and as consumers become increasingly aware of the price increases which are taking place throughout Australia, more and more people are becoming disillusioned with this fairyland promise of the good that a prices and wages freeze will do. There can be no doubt that a-poll taken legitimately now would show that more people are opposed to this move by the Government than are for it because, as I said, more people can see now that it was a compulsory wage freeze and a voluntary price freeze. The Minister also tells us in his statement that despite the inevitable difficulties and complexities Australians saw in the joint call, nevertheless they responded to the national problem. 
One of the complaints that we have on this side of the House is that the Government has been unable to give details of the impact of this wages-prices freeze. For a month we have been asking the Government to give us some information as to what it all means. If after 15 minutes discussion the Government can announce a prices-wages freeze, one would have thought that it would have put a sufficient number of public servants to work to give us some of the finer details of this wages-prices freeze. If, as the Minister claims, Australians saw aU the complexities and difficulties associated with it, they certainly were showing a far greater perception of the problems than did the Government. 
One of the extraordinary features of the announcement of the Prime Minister was that he made the announcement without any consultation with any of his colleagues, with perhaps the exception of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Honourable members will have noticed that the Treasurer, who likes to get up and let the blood rush to his head on many of these economic issues, for the last month has been extraordinarily silent on the wages-prices freeze. We have not seen the Treasurer representing his Department, telling us what a great economic feat a prices-wages freeze would be. Obviously his Department is opposed to it. Other Ministers have ad it imposed upon them and are not quite sure what it means. They certainly cannot explain the difficulties associated with it. The Minister said that very quickly the Government felt the response of employers was one of acceptance of what the Government was trying to do. In fact, he stated: 
The freeze drew rapid support from employer groups throughout Australia. 
Of course, that sentence of the Minister's statement provides the key to the whole problem. 
In most circumstances- certainly not all circumstances, as is evidenced by some other material I shall lay before the House a little later- why would not the average employer give a rapid response to such a suggestion? The suggestion was made a few weeks before the next national wage hearing was due to commence. In all cases the employers had been able to make the price increases that they required for the first quarter of the year. The wage case that was to be conducted- it started yesterday- was to catch up with the price increases that had taken place in the first quarter of this year. So we had the wage and salary earners of Australia trying to get some justice from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commision in terms of a wage increase only to catch up with the price increases in January, February and March of this year. Now, if employers had already received their price increases, why would they not agree to a wage-price freeze if the essence of what it meant was to abolish the March quarter hearing of the national wage case? That is exactly what it meant. Obviously, a lot of employers rushed in. 
Then the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs tells us that a lot of industries agree with the wage-price freeze. They have been to see him. They have responded to the telexes, the telegrams and the telephone calls. But let us have a closer look at what that means. On Monday of this week, to the disgrace of this Government, we found that in discussing the wage-price freeze behind closed doors employers and manufacturers were agreeing to the freeze at a price which the whole community had to pay. There has been no denial of the stories which appeared in the newspapers on Monday of this week. Not one Minister has said that these stories are untrue. What are the stories? When the automobile manufacturers were called in to discuss with the Government the price-wage freeze a Press statement was released after their meeting which said that everything was lovely in the garden and that the Government and the automobile manufacturers of Australia had reached agreement. That was the end of the Press statement. The Government came out of the meeting beating its chest and saying that it had the support of all these major employers- General Motors-Holden's, Ford, Chrysler, the assemblers and the importers. The Government said that they all agreed that the price-wage freeze is a good thing for Australia. 
Then, a week later, out comes all the garbage. Out comes all the information about what has been going on behind closed doors. Out comes all the things that the Australian people do not know about how this Government obtained agreement. I want to quote from the newsletter  Inside Canberra  of 29 April. It says: 
A request by the Prime Minister to the States seeking a delay in exhaust emission control standards will provoke strong resistance from consumer and environment groups.  Mr Fraser  last week undertook to ask the States to defer application of design rule 27E, the emission control rule, as a trade-off for support by car manufacturers of the price freeze.  Mr Fraser  gave the undertaking last week in Canberra at a conference of motor industry leaders and senior Ministers. He was told by the industry that the new emission control standards to come into operation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The question - 
-A few weeks ago a chap who served the Press Gallery for many years passed away. I refer to Don Whitington. I think he was known to most parliamentarians or people who had served in or around the Parliament. I know that at times each of us had cause to argue with his writings. Nevertheless he covered the activities of Parliament and the personalities of Parliament very comprehensively for more than 2 decades. He wrote a number of books. Of course, he also published his own newsletter and he had contributed syndicated columns to various regional centres throughout Australia. I always found him a very decent honourable person- a very convivial bloke. I am very sorry he had to suffer such a long illness. I was shocked by his death. I always regarded him, in spite of some of the things he wrote at times- although on other occasions I think he was over-generous- as a very decent person. I am sure the Press Gallery and the Parliament will be sorry for losing Don Whitington. I would like to express sympathy to his wife, Helen. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the drop in registrations of new motor vehicles for the last month? Is he also aware that this has a great deal to do with the speculation surrounding a drop in sales tax not only from spokesmen within the industry but also from many retail outlets throughout Australia which are now advertising that they are in fact, on their own initiative, dropping the level of sales tax on new cars? Is a reduction of sales tax under consideration to revive the automobile industry in Australia? If not, will the Prime Minister give a clear indication that the Government has no intention of doing so and so eradicate any further speculation? 
-The Opposition welcomes the tabling of the White Paper. However, there are some comments which we on this side of the House want to make in relation to it. The White Paper has had a very interesting history. It was promised a long time ago, and bit by bit it has been leaked through the Press that new drafts have been sent back to the Prime Minister's Department so that some day we could look at a final copy. On a very quick perusal it seems to be as devoid of as many points that ought to be made in relation to manufacturing industry as it contains. It seems to me on reading the newspapers this morning that the latest leak in relation to the possible lowering of 

<graphic href="105131197705240_49_2.jpg"></graphic>

protection has more teeth than the White Paper has. It is of vital importance to Australia to come to some clear understanding of the future of manufacturing industry in this country. Both the statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the White Paper itself, from the time I have had to peruse it, show that there are still great contradictions in the thinking of the Government in relation to what lies ahead. There are on some occasions- I shall go through them very briefly- statements that in the long term tariffs may be reduced and efforts will be made by the Government to identify the viable industries which have some future in the long term. At the same time it refuses to identify what the Government calls key industries based on the recommendation of the Jackson Committee report. 
Nevertheless, a number of things in the White Paper seem to deserve comment. Firstly, as has been pointed out from this side of the House  recently- not by myself but by other speakersthe relationship between the changing industries in Australia and the emergence of the mineral industry has had a grave impact upon manufacturing industry. The changes that have taken place in manufacturing industry have occurred to a large extent without any observance by government and without any government guidance. Perhaps some changes have taken place which, if government had considered them, might have been reversed. I do not refer to the present Government. I refer to long term governments in Australia which, as a result of 25 years of what may be described as industrial development and peace in Australia following World War II, believed that it was not part of the charge of a national government's responsibility to involve itself in what would occur in the long term to our industries. Of course, the emergence of the mining industry with its effects on manufacturing industry was for a long time misunderstood and ignored. 
The strong and complex interdependence, as the statement says, is there and ought to be worked on. There ought to be guidelines about what happens in future, so that some of the human misery that comes with the change in the make-up of the sectors of industry in Australia can be avoided. I agree with the statement both here and in the White Paper that at the moment in the economic circumstances in which we live, to talk about the immediate disruption of industries or the immediate lowering of tariffs to any significant extent is, of course, to throw pressures and problems on to a small sector of the Australian community, both the employee and employer, without taking into account the hardships they may have to carry in relation to the rest of the community. It seems to me that perhaps the White Paper has ignored many of the connecting features of society with which manufacturing industry will be related. 
The lower birth rates, the reduced immigration, the changing patterns of consumption expenditure as incomes rise, and the industrial development of other countries in our region have all contributed to a major change in outlook for manufacturing industry in Australia. This is part of what the Minister has just said. In looking through the White Paper I find that it totally ignores the relationship between our manpower needs and our education ideals. I cannot find anywhere in the White Paper the relationship between the emphasis we are putting on education by virtue of spending millions of dollars through this Government and /or the State governments and what we may need in industry. 
Some people assume that the very fact that we have a certain number of people leaving school means that we can continue to service the industries we have at the moment. If we are spending millions of dollars to uplift the educational standards of Australian children there seems to be some contradiction between the ideals we are setting at the schools and the requirements we may have for people after they have left school. 
One of the features of the Australian educational system which will obviously undergo change is the concluding matriculation figure. In Australia only 35 of every 100 children who commence high school complete their matriculation. When one compares this figure with Japan where 91 out of every 100 children complete high school, one can see that the greater emphasis on education which has taken place in Australia over the past 10 years will lift that figure enormously. Obviously a lot of young people without a higher education who now go into manufacturing will perhaps in the future refuse to do so. The Government ought to have explained this in the White Paper. It ought to have gone to some length to explain to industry the difficulties in attracting a work force in the future. I refer, of course, to the major labourintensive industries in this country. 
The same thing applies to migration. If agreement from both sides of the House can be reached in relation to the number of migrants that will be received in Australia it will be a substantial direction to industry as to what manpower will be available for it to continue. Figures- there are pages of them in the White Paper- will show that in many labour-intensive industries the vast majority of employees are migrants. They came into the work force at the time that we were bringing a lot more people into Australia than we are today. To a large extent the White Paper has ignored the importance to industry of knowing exactly what the future policy of the Government is with regard to the net migration intake. If it is to be a net intake of 50 000 that will be a very different circumstance to industry than if the net intake is to be 100 000. This is not to add weight or to give credence to the suggestion made by some that the Labor Party is part of a scheme to bring migrants in merely to fill the gaps in some of the industries where Australians in future will not work. But it has been our experience in the past and it is a fact today that many of the migrants make up the work force, in some instances women, and we have to look to what will affect manufacturing industry in the future. 
I am pleased also that in the White Paper the Government has, for the time being, stopped its onslaught on wages alone as the major problem of industry. It has pointed out to industry that there are a number of other problems inherent in continuing with manufacturing industry as it is in Australia. It would do well for industry to look at these things. The White Paper hopes that industrial disputes can be reduced. I think it is incumbent upon the Government to look seriously at its thinking at present in relation to the way in which it may be provoking industrial disputes. There can be no doubt that in the 2 weeks when the Parliament was not sitting prior to the referendums a certain amount of common sense prevailed between the trade union movement and the Government in reaching an agreement about the powers of the Industrial Relations Bureau. Had that come into being and had that legislation incorporated all the penalties which were envisaged by the original Bill we would have seen far greater industrial disputes in Australia than we have seen in the past. Undoubtedly, this would have had a grave effect upon the continued viability of manufacturing industry. To a large extent that responsibility belongs to those in power. All we can do on this side of the House is try to persuade the Government from time to time that the actions it is taking will bring about greater injury to industry than assistance. The same thing applies to the measures that have been taken with regard to trade practices. That matter ought to be discussed with the revitalised National Labour Advisory Council. I hope the Government has taken the advice in the submission from the trade unions on that matter. 
I noticed that the Government has said- so did the White Paper- that it refused to adopt what may be considered key industries. Nevertheless, the White Paper goes on to say that some industries have special problems. It lists the industries as being the automobile industry, the electrical appliance industry, the footwear industry and the textile industry. So, in its own way, the White Paper has identified industries, all of them labour intensive. There may be other reasons why one would put industries such as infant industries or defence capacity industries in a special section. So to a certain extent, although denying the adoption of the policy, it is very difficult when writing guidelines or a policy of a future for the manufacturing industry in Australia not to identify industries which, if they were not assisted specifically, would cause major disruption or a loss to Australia. 
One of the number of other matters to which reference needs to be made is the question of overseas companies that operate in Australia. There are about 2 paragraphs in the White Paper concerning the role of multinationals. They say that we in Australia abide by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development scripture on the activities of multinationals in other countries- and that is the end of that. I put it to the House that what the Government ought to have looked at in the White Paper is the extent to which Australian technology is dependent upon overseas companies operating in this country. Jackson pointed out in a specific chapter in the Green Paper turned over to the influence of overseas technology, that Australia receives enormous benefit from the activities of multinationals in this country, that we derive a great deal of our technology from their activities here. But he also pointed out that it is possible that a ceiling could be put on that technology by the parent company so that the company's subsidiary operating in Australia does not become a competitor with the parent company operating in or near Australia. So the Government ought to have expanded on this question of the role of multinationals in Australia as far as technology is concerned. They have lent some weight to and laid greater emphasis upon the role of research and development, as far as the Government is concerned. As I warned during the Budget debate of last year, it was a false economy for the Government to cut back on research and development in this country. There are some areas, even at times when government expenditure is being cut, that should never be interfered with. The long term benefits far outweigh the short term benefits in relation to questions such as research and development. 
There is some mention of relocation in the White Paper but I believe that it could have gone a lot further on this matter. What is going to occur in regard to industries that are placed in these regions, in some of the major towns around Australia, will be an enormous problem for Australia. As I have said, the Government may say 'We are not going to adopt a key industry approach', but it might have to adopt a key geographical area approach. At the moment in Australia we have substantial unemployment. We have a very high figure of unemployment in the Newcastle area. It would seem that industry there, with the closing of the shipyards, is on the decline. How are we going to get 1 3,000 people back to work in the Newcastle region? The relocation schemes, as it should have been pointed out in the White Paper, should be concerned with making an exhaustive analysis of what is required in this country so that we can put people back to work. The structural adjustment programs which are referred to rather fleetingly in the White Paper, are permanent government measures as we on this side of the House see them. They should be there continually. We no longer live with the fact that everything is going to return to normal as it may have done in the 1950s and 1960s. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
They were not going to stop it.  Mr Donald  Cameron- I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I had an assurance that there was not going to be any time limit on it. 
When is it coming back on for debate? 
I do not blame you for not wanting to discuss it. 
-The Opposition opposes the Trade Practices Amendment Bill for a variety of reasons as expressed previously when the Bill was introduced in December 1975 and lapsed due to the proroguing of Parliament. We felt that the proposed laws inherent in the new Bill set out to defeat the concepts of the Trade Practices Act as it had been established by the Labor Administration in 1 974. It is not that we are completely opposed to all the changes. But the massive change which will take place in the Act as a result of this Bill provokes our total opposition. In addition, this Bill contains what we would describe as 'the writing into the laws of Australia of a bad law'. By that I mean that it is a law that could bring Parliament into disrepute. It could be looked upon suspiciously by the community and it could bring about total non-compliance. Of course, I refer to proposed new section 45D, a unique section so far as trade practices are concerned. Unfortunately, proposed section 45 D, has tended to submerge the importance of other alterations that have taken place in the Act as a result of this Bill. No doubt, a number of speakers from both sides of the House will express their views as I will myself later in my speech upon the involving of trade unions in the trade practices law. 
The original concept of trade practices, as far as the Labor Party was concerned, was as follows: That people in Australia and business houses should compete and should do so fairly within the rules. We take great comfort from the reports of the Trade Practices Commission presented in 1 975 and 1 976. They are the only two reports published since the establishment of the Commission. From what the Commission has had to say about its operations not only in those two documents but also in its remarks on the recommendations of the Swanson Committee, we can see that the Commission itself believes that the trial period of the Trade Practices Act has not been sufficiently long to warrant the massive changes that are taking place in this Bill. It would be interesting to foresee the third annual report of the Trade Practices Commission in relation to the changes that will take place. I think it is worthwhile to note that a future Labor Government obviously would move to strengthen the Act where it believed this Bill tends to weaken it. 
A reading of the annual reports shows that the contents of this Bill fly in the face of everything the Commission has had to say about its operations. It has always seen the Act as a long term influence on the activities of business in Australia. It did not see itself as being able to push amendments or changes in the business styles of Australia or to try to crush moves that may have been to the advantage of Australian business in a way which may have been peculiar to the thinking of some people. It has indeed defended itself against these accusations. I want to look at what the Commission has had to say in its first annual report about the approach of the Trade Practices Act in relation to the 1974 Bill. The Commission stated: 
The present Act is in sharp contrast with the law it replaced. It covers matters not previously touched, for example mergers, price discrimination, exclusive dealing, and consumer protection. It starts from a general principle instead of case by case examination. 
I think it important to understand that the Trade Practices Commission saw its role as being, in the long term, laying down general principles which people would abide by. We will see as we go through this Bill that we are reverting to the old system of case by case examination. Whilst there has been some argument that perhaps we are over-using the resources of the Commission in wanting to continue with public hearings- a matter which I want to examine a little later onnonetheless when it comes to this type of operation the Government does not see itself having a problem in asking the Trade Practices Commission to go back to the old system of case by case examination which could in the long term mean a great deal more problems for business houses in Australia. 
Whilst I am on that point and now that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  is at the table, I want to say in relation to this Bill and in relation to the Bill which effectively introduces the concept of an industrial relations bureau, that I found both the second reading speeches fell far short of the mark in outlining the changes that will take place. I think that the responsible Ministers- the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Steet)-  ought to look seriously at the manner in which they present their second reading speeches which are supposed to give us a guide to what is proposed in the Bills themselves. We on this side of the House have noted that the second reading speeches fell far short of the mark in outlining the changes which are to take place in the Acts. Obviously, the approaches of the political parties can be expected to be different. They are determined by economic factors, social and political, and by the business thinking of both the major political parties. What has happened over the past 18 months under this Government- the makeup of the Swanson Committee, its terms of reference which seem to me to be way outside the bounds of the operations of the Trade Practices Commission, and perhaps the tie-up between what the Government wants the Trade 
Practices Commission to do and its own economic objectives- has to a certain extent exposed its thinking and influences. The Government seems unable to draw the line between its own political relationship with some business houses and the impact on inflation of returning to some sort of  laissez-faire  approach to the so-called competitive forces in our society. 
It is interesting to note a submission of the Graziers Association of New South Wales made recently to the Trade Practices Commission. I would have thought that the viewpoint of the Graziers Association of New South Wales would not be very close to the Australian Labor Party. Nevertheless, the Association had this to say in its submission: 
The concern of the Graziers' Association and that of the other primary producer association supporting our submissions is not the ethics of the Stock and Station Agents '  Assocociation  but the apparent complete absence of price competition in the industry. Further, we are concerned that the collusive price fixing agreement is used to significantly alter the trading terms of the industry and disadvantage livestock producers . . . 
The Association believes that the price fixing agreement administered by the N.S.W. Stock and Station Agents' Association operates to reduce, if not to completely negate, those economic forces which would normally bring about a change in the agents industry. A complete review of the method of remuneration for stock agents seems appropriate . . . 
And so it goes on. Many people and associations are looking very seriously at the weakening of the Trade Practices Act and the effect it may have upon their own economic wellbeing. Matters that will be raised by speakers on this side of the chamber in the second reading debate and in the Committee stage will include public hearings, restrictive practices, boycotts, mergers and exclusive dealing, but I want to refer to what the Commission had to say in relation to the selfenforcing effect of the Act as it is and perhaps the way in which that is now challenged. On page 1 2 of its second annual report the Trade Practices Commission had this to say: 
Subject to the procedures for clearance and authorisation, both the restrictive trade practices and the consumer protection provisions operate by prohibiting specified kinds of conduct having certain specified effects. Consequently, the effectiveness of the provisions depends to a great extent on deterrence, and that is difficult to assess. No-one can say how many anti-competitive mergers were never proposed because the parties realised there was no public benefit that would justify them, or how many competitors resisted the temptation to agree on prices because of the risks under the Trade Practices Act. However, there is some striking evidence of results the Act is producing. The evidence presented to the Commission public hearing on building societies tied insurance arrangements showed a substantial decline in insurance premiums over the preceding two years . . . 
On industry predictions it said: 
In authorisation cases, it has been pressed on the Commission that industry executives are  experts  who can best predict what will happen in the absence of the restrictions in question, and that the Commission should accept and act on their predictions and not presume to make its own judgment. If it accepted this view, the Commission would be neglecting its statutory responsibility and resigning itself to a continuance of the status quo. 
Naturally, weight must be, and is, given to what experienced executives have to say. But it cannot necessarily be decisive, even if the executives all have the same opinion, which is by no means always so. It needs at least to be tested in point of logic. And some allowance must be made for the possibility that personal involvement in defending restrictions will produce a degree of subjectivity beyond that of experts qualified in the ordinary sense to give opinion evidence. 
In defence of their operations, no-one- not even Swanson or the Government- has torn down the arguments advanced by the Commission. 
I turn now to the developments in respect of the application of the public benefit test, which again is an important aspect of the changes the Government now proposes. The Government's changes fly in the face of what the Commission has said and the public benefit test is now under serious challenge. In its second annual report the Commission had this to say: 
The Act in s. 90(5) directs the Commission (and, when there is a re-hearing, the Tribunal) not to make a determination granting an authorisation unless it is satisfied that the contract, arrangement, understanding or conduct to which the application relates results, or is likely to result, in a substantial benefit to the public, being a benefit that would not otherwise be available, and that in all the circumstances, that result, or that likely result, as the case may be, justifies the granting of the authorisation. 
Further on, dealing with causation, the Commissioner said: 
A logical first step when considering an authorisation application is the question of causation: the claimed benefits must be shown to result, or be likely to result, from the conduct in question. 
The Shell exclusive dealing case is an illustration of the causation element. Shell had argued that its exclusive dealing system with its dealers and agents produced cost-saving efficiencies which depended on the system and were peculiar to it. Shell argued that if the exclusive dealing contracts were not authorised, there would be a trend towards multi-brand selling from service stations which could cause these existing economies in supply and transportation to be lost. However, from the evidence of an officer of Shell in the United States it became clear that even though it was not lawful in the United States to tie dealers to one oil company by exclusive dealing agreements, single-brand trading had continued because it carried economic advantages for both dealer and supplier. 
There are volumes of evidence from the Trade Practices Commission to indicate that these provisions should not be altered. In giving its interpretation of the wording of 'substantial benefit to the public', the Commission had this to say: 
The phrase 'benefit to the public', has been interpreted by the Tribunal as meaning 'anything of value to the community generally, any contribution to the aims pursued by the society including as one of its principal elements .... the achievement of the economicgoals of efficiency and progress'. 
So, in terms of substantial benefit to the public or of exclusive dealing with which the Commission has had to deal, no real argument has been advanced to support the changes inherent in the Bill. 
I do not believe that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who is at the table, or the Government believes that all the problems that may be involved with mergers have been overcome. There is substantial evidence from many people who are analysing this Bill to say that the merger section of the Act has been considerably weakened and the role of the Commission watered down considerably. Nevertheless, the question of mergers in Australian industry offers us enormous problems and challenges. People have used this as an argument to say that the Trade Practices Commission is interfering too much with the role set for the Industries Assistance Commission. There has been some argument by the Trade Practices Commission that that is not so and that the roles of the 2 commissions are quite different. 
Tonight we had the White Paper on manufacturing industry tabled in this House. We have an enormous problem in Australia concerning this question of economies of scale of international competitiveness. We on this side of the House do not bury our heads in the sand; we recognise the need to continually look at mergers in industries. We do not believe that what the Government proposes in this Bill overcomes that problem. The Government does not argue that the Commission has been unnecessarily holding up mergers. All the evidence in the reports shows that they have been dealt with expeditiously and that very few authorisations have been refused. Nevertheless, it is not just the role of the Trade Practices Commission or of the Industries Assistance Commission to look at these problems. They are problems for the Government, and a great deal more thought will have to be given to the problem of mergers. They do not always take place as a move towards anti-competitiveness or monopoly. In some cases they have done so. Before the 1974 Act a great deal of them were for that purpose. I think that the dropping of the threshold test meets with the criticism made of it by the Commission. It was a shot in the dark by the Government in pursuance of its policy stated at the 1975 election and it would have presented more problems for the Commission than the Government realised. 
In relation to proposed section 45D, the 1976 Bill included provisions to prohibit secondary boycotts. Those provisions were harsh enough. Now they have been extended in a way which will greatly intensify the threat to the unions. The very considerable extension of the secondary boycott provisions is apparent from proposed section 45D. If we look closely at the Act we see that proposed section 45D now has 7 subsections with extensive internal divisions into paragraphs and sub-paragraphs. To establish the effect of any one sub-section it must be read in conjunction with the others. These are very complex provisions yet they are referred to only in passing in the Minister's second reading speech. This is not an isolated example of a blatant distortion of the provisions of the Bill which has emerged from the second reading speech. A massive and far-reaching piece of legislation is glossed over in a second reading speech which distorts the real purposes of the legislation. If we want to find out what the Government is on about we have to go to the terms of the Act and analyse it in a very detailed way. This is necessary because, as I have said previously, the Minister's speech presents the new Bill as a model of moderation and concession. 
When we look closely at the Bill we find that this is not so. We have to try to penetrate the fog and find out what the Bill is really designed to do. If we look at proposed section 45D ( 1 ) we find that it corresponds to the original section 45D although it has been recast to include several significant changes. In particular, the impact of this section has been very much hardened. The original provision said that 'an employee of a person' was not to engage in certain conduct in concert with others. The new section 45D ( 1 ) addresses itself only to a person. The previous approach by which the action of employees was involved has been altered so that the section applies now to the conduct of any person. Several comments should be made about this change. Although the Minister in his speech declares a belief in even-handedness the history of this section does not demonstrate an evenhanded approach. In fact, the provisions of the original Act have been very much toughened. We should never forget the basic purpose of the Trade Practices Act; that is to regulate the affairs of employers, not employees. Other legislation, particularly the Conciliation and Arbitration Act regulates those activities. 
The Government has made a substantial innovation in trying to extend this Act to employees and, in the process, reviving long dead areas of common law. If we look at the way in which these provisions are framed we find that the main thrust is against employees. Employers and businessmen seem to be included almost as an afterthought. In effect, the whole purpose of this sort of legislation has been turned on its head. This is perfectly plain if we look closely at the effect of proposed section 45 D (1). This is not, as I said, an even-handed approach. It is aimed at employees. Let there be no mistake about it. Business seems to have been included as a diversion and as a mask to the true intent of the legislators. This emerges clearly if we look at the change in the wording. The Minister suggests that the wording 'a person' is designed to apply the section to businesses. If the whole of the section is read, it becomes clear that the wording has been changed to apply the section and the consequent penalties to unions and, in particular, to union officers as representatives of their members. 
A later provision gives the whole game away. It provides that unions and their officers are liable if two or more members of unions are involved. If the old wording had been retained- I repeat it here, 'an employee of a person'- it could be argued that the section did not prohibit unions from engaging in the conduct specified in concert with their members. This argument would be valid because the prohibition extended only to an employee and unions were not employees. Now the wording has been changed and the unions are liable. Plainly, the revised legislation is part of the extensive battery of legislative measures the Government has built up against the trade union movement. 
There is another important change which the Minister did not bother even to mention in the extremely skimpy second reading speech. The prohibition in the original section extended to concerted conduct 'for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods and services by the employee to a corporation ' if that hindering had a substantial adverse effect on the corporation's business. This raises the question of whether conduct aimed at disrupting an employer's business by halting or limiting his production by a strike or go-slow could apply to this provision with regard to a corporation with which that employer dealt. The original wording could be interpreted to mean that where there was purposeful interference with the employer's production the result of this interference, such as prevention of supplies to customers, would also be purposeful acts within the terms of the Bill. 
The new wording does not prohibit conduct for the purposes of hindering supplies to a corporation. Instead it prohibits conduct for the purpose of causing substantial loss or damage to the corporation's business. On the surface, the new wording would seem to limit the argument that the conduct of employees on strike or goslow would damage the businesses of customers or their employees through disruption in supplies. For example, it could be interpreted as meaning that strikes arising from disputes between workers and their employers, which incidentally injured customers, would not be covered by the provisions. Such an interpretation has 2 weaknesses. Firstly, it cannot be ruled out that this sort of strike is completely excluded. Courts have often accepted much more tenuous arguments. Secondly, we have to look at the effect on section 45D ( 1 ) of the proposed new section 45D (3). This sub-section extends to contraventions of section 45D an exemption from liability which by section 5 1 of the Act applies to all sections of Part IV except section 48 which deals with resale price maintenance. In the original Bill this exemption from liability was denied also to section 45D. 
The extension of this exemption to secondary boycotts through the insertion of section 45D (3) was another of the very important changes which was ignored by the Minister in his second reading speech. Its appearance raises some very nasty doubts about the intent of section 45D ( 1 ). The matters listed in sub-section (3) of section 45D concern wages, working conditions, hours, etc. They are the issues which would be involved in strikes by employees against their employers- in short, strikes aimed at putting pressure on the employers and not on the customers of the employers. If section 45D ( 1 ) did not prohibit that sort of strike, if it were aimed only at strikes involving corporations with whom the employers traded, then the protection given by section 45D(3) would not be needed. Therefore, its inclusion suggests very strongly that the framers of this Bill see section 45 D ( 1 ) as still applying to all strikes. Interpretation of section 45D(3) raises another problem. Even in the Government's own terms, industrial strikes may be interpreted in a very restrictive way. There are very many matters of dispute between employer and employee which would fall beyond the narrow bands of the sub-section concerning remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions. 
Apart from these doubts, the protection is even more limited with regard to the persons by whom it can be invoked. This involves a detailed examination of sub-section (3) in conjunction with sub-sections (4) and (5). I point to the restriction here. I do not want to go into it in any detail. The total effect is to provide that if two or more members of a union strike about wages, hours or conditions of employment and the strike damages the business of a corporation then the union is in contravention of the prohibition in section 45D ( 1 ) and is liable to the appropriate penalties. 
To summarise, the only point of section 45D (3) is to make it clear that section 45D ( 1 ) applies not only to strikes aimed at the corporations in question but to all strikes. Its protective value is illusory because it is the unions, not individual employees, which the section is designed to penalise. There is no protection for the unions. They can escape liability only by establishing the taking of all reasonable steps to prevent their members from engaging in the prohibited conduct as provided in section 45D(5). 
Other changes have been made in the penalties that may be imposed. According to the Minister these changes have reduced the severity of the Bill by ensuring that individual employees are not subjected to pecuniary penalties. In fact, if we look closely at the Bill, we find that this is not the case for there are penalties other than pecuniary penalties. The earlier Bill imposed on individual employees possible fines of up to $50,000. Quite clearly, these were impractical and could not be enforced. They would have been disastrous politically. No government, not even the Fraser Government, can afford to put workers and their families destitute onto the streets. It would have been completely impractical to use a $50,000 sledgehammer to crack the nut of an individual worker. Ruling out arguments of humanity and equity, it would have been impossible from an administrative point of view to levy such a fine and recover it from a single worker. The Government is now patting itself on the back for not doing what it could never do. It has sought to shift liability from the individual employee to the unions. 
Linked with this proposed Industrial Relations Bureau legislation these penalties are designed to destroy militant unionism. The penalty provisions have been changed to ensure that union funds will be liable to fines of up to $250,000. The watered-down Industrial Relations Bureau legislation which we have yet to see before the Parliament cannot disguise the basic intent of both pieces of legislation. There was a loophole in the original amendment because it was arguable whether or not unions were bodies corporate. This is a complex argument and I refer only to the broad provisions here. Briefly, the original amendment provided for fines of up to $50,000 for a person not a body corporate and up to $250,000 for a body corporate. Whether a union was or was not a body corporate varied according to the relevant industrial legislation of the individual States and of the Commonwealth. The new version of the Bill has resolved arguments about whether a union is or is not a body corporate by subjecting all unions to a $250,000 fine. This is one way of simplifying a complex law, but we must doubt whether it is an equitable one. Further, we should note that this $250,000 fine is not a maximum; it is a $250,000 fine for each act to which the section applies. It is possible for a court to hold that each day of a strike is a prohibited act and therefore liable to a fine of $250,000 a day. 
Again, I do not want to go through paragraph by paragraph the construction of the Act which closes the loophole based on incorporation or non-incorporation. It emerges clearly if we study closely section 45D (6) (c). A great number of other honourable members on this side of the House will be looking closely at this section 45 D. It would be in the interests of the Government, as I said earlier, for this section to be taken out of the Bill and referred to the reconstituted National Labour Consultative Council because, as I said during the introduction of my speech, it is a bad law. It will meet with total noncompliance; it will bring the Parliament into disrepute for bringing in a law which one would say has the same smell about it as that of conscription. .  Mr SHIPTON  (Higgins) ( 10.22)-This legislation amending the Trade Practices Act is the result of a long process of consideration, consultation and thought. I think we have had before the House legislation in one form or another for some 5 months. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has shown a complete ability to accept submissions to change the legislation after thought and consideration has been given to it. It is a proper approach to legislation before this House. A major provision of the amendment to the Trade Practices Act is to include in it section 45D relating to secondary boycotts by unions. This introduces for the first time in trade practices legislation a provision relating to union abuse  of power. 
Let me say at the outset that unions are a proper pan of the capitalist system. They arose initially in the last century out of abuses of the system, for quite proper reasons. They are, in fact, an essential part of that system. As  Mr Justice  Higgins said of the arbitration system in 1919: 
The system of arbitration adopted by the Act is based on unionism. Indeed, without unions it is hard to conceive how the Act could be worked. Unions arc essential for a proper conciliation and arbitration system. Similarly, we recognise that an individual person, as a worker, is often helpless to actually negotiate his particular contract of employment. He has a freedom of labour to obtain acceptable terms and conditions of employment. 
We on this side of the House recognise that- and we are often accused of union bashing. I am quite prepared to be accused of that by honourable members opposite because it suits them to apply that term to people like myself. But in fact they are completely wrong because, as I have said, the trade union movement and the trade unions themselves are an essential and proper part of the capitalist system. 
-On a point of procedure, it is going to be very difficult to deal with clause 23 in its totality, if I can use the word of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  On the basis that there will be no restriction on Opposition members who wish to contribute to the debate, we are prepared to take the clause in its totality in order to shorten the proceedings of the Committee. Nevertheless, a great deal of legislation is involved, and even when it is passed there will not be anybody in the House who understands it. Some very significant changes are to be made to the law, and I seek from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  an assurance that there will not be any restrictions if all the amendments to clause 23 are taken together. 
I will take the time of the House for only a few minutes. The Opposition welcomes the statement on trade made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony).  I should like to refer to a few things, not the least of which is the point made very early in the Minister's statement that the Government considers that many of the problems require ministerial intervention. With that point the Opposition agrees completely. It is unfortunate that during our term in office the then Opposition, now the Government, tried to exploit the fact that a number of Ministers were called upon to carry out their duties in countries other than Australia. That was looked upon as being a matter of some political advantage to the then Opposition, who pointed out to the people of Australia that perhaps the taxpayers' money was being misused for Ministers to go around the world. I do not intend to exploit that point in the same way as it was exploited at that time. In relation to the problems with which we are confronted as a trading nation, and the Minister has said that we are not amongst the top few trading nations but we are certainly right at the top in certain commodities, I think it is important that overseas countries' representatives at the top level meet people from our own country at the top level. 
I do not agree completely with the Minister that the Government's role should be supportive. 
Looking through the statement, it would seem that greater government intervention will be called for, greater government initiative. While the Minister said that the cutbacks in the export incentives scheme have now been stopped and the scheme is being reviewed, in looking at the Government's role, as I said last year in my speech on the Budget, the Department of Trade made several false economies in respect of the export incentive scheme and perhaps, without knowing it explicitly, in the role and number of our trade commissions throughout the world. Nevertheless, I think that the statement which has just been made to the House is important. The Minister went to great lengths to point up the growing relationship between Australia and Japan. I believe that there is an increasing realisation by all concerned, both in this country and in Japan, that we cannot leave the relationship at a trade level. In order to consolidate the relationship which has been built up as a result of trade we need to build up relationships between the Australian and Japanese people at other levels of life. We would then have a better grasp, a better understanding, of their problems and they would meet face to face the problems that we have in Australia. 
To that extent I warmly applaud the initiative of the Japanese Government over the past couple of years in inviting several delegations of Australian parliamentarians to Japan to look at their problems and to discuss at a very high level, even though we went only as back bench members of both sides of the Parliament, the enormous problems which that country may face in the future. The visit also gave us an opportunity to express views on behalf of those we represent in Australia. The Minister makes an extremely important point when he says that we must strive for harmony between our trade policies and our domestic industry policies. It seems that no country has realised the perfect recipe for achieving that harmony. I think every country comes in for its share of criticism. Every country, whether it be by tariff, standard, quota or in some other way, protects its local industries as far as it can. 
Whilst, as the Minister pointed out, many of the countries that were repesented at the London economic summit are very free in the way in which they allow consumer goods to move in and out of their countries, in the area of rural industries the barriers go up. We may have faced greater problems in the last few years than we expected. Things happened quickly. I am pleased to see that the Minister has recognised that the problems the Labor Government was accused of creating in Australia were not just 
Australian problems but were, indeed, worldwide problems that placed great stress on our export manufacturing industries. They caused great concern and imposed unbelievable poverty in many areas of the rural industries which we did not foresee and could not move quickly enough to eradicate. Nevertheless the experience of the past few years, not only for Australia but also for governments throughout the Western world and the centralised economies of eastern Europe, China and so forth, have been that we must get together. Many of the countries to which I refer are signatories to international agreements. We must try to seek some agreement between all these people to ensure that we avoid those problems in the future. 
I wish to make some remarks about the comments of the people who have shifted from manufacturing industry. As was pointed out in the White Paper on manufacturing industry last night and as has been pointed out by the Minister in his statement on trade today, there has been a massive shift in the work force out of manufacturing industry. A certain number of these people have found their way into the mining industry and the tertiary industries. According to the White Paper and Government policy, this is a process or procedure which is likely to continue in this country. As I said last night, it will be extremely difficult in the future as it has been in the past, not only because of the pressure from the labour intensive industries to our north but also because of our educational standards, to ensure that the percentage of the work force that has gone into our labour intensive industries is available in the future. Properly analysed, this may be one of the ways in which we can build proper harmony, as the Minister says, between our imports and our exports and m our relationships with other countries. 
Australia has played a part in trying to see that the developing countries not only have political independence but also are able to achieve economic independence. It has been to the disadvantage of us all that some of the developing countries, because of the lack of economic muscle, have fallen foul of other more dominating influences that have led to a great deal of strife and perhaps breakdown of relations, even with Australia. The more we can do to assist by giving tariff preferences to their goods coming into this country, the more quickly they will reach the economic independence which is an integral pan of a proper and lasting political independence. 
I turn to the question of international commodities. In recent times Australia has been paying some attention to this matter. There have been a great number of discussions on the matter in Australia. There are certainly a number of problems surrounding it. But something must be done for the sake not only of the developing countries but also of the developed countries to overcome the problems of the peaks and troughs, as a Minister put it, inherent in commodity trade. It is to be hoped that the United Nations committee dealing with this question can reach a quick decision as to how this can properly work. It is of enormous importance to us all to see that we do not go through the problems of inflation that were caused by high prices for some commodities in the immediate years past. The export of our energy resources of course has been the subject of a great deal of discussion and debate in Australia, together with the impact that the emergence of the great mineral industry in Australia is having on our manufacturing industry. This presents a problem in regard to our balance of payments. People are no longer ignorant of it. It is not a question of closing our eyes or of turning the clock back and trying to stop the growth of an industry; it is a question of seeing that everybody in Australia is treated equally and fairly and that the emergence of one industry does not completely wipe out the existence of another. I do not think that in Australia it is the will of any person that we start de-industrialising as the developing countries start to industrialise. Not only has there to be harmony between other countries and Australia; there also has to be harmony between the various sectors of industry in Australia so that we have a proper and lasting development. 
We welcome also the comments that have been made on the growing relationship between Australia, the ASEAN countries, other Asian countries, and the People's Republic of China which we predicted when in government would become a valuable trading partner and which has done as predicted. We have specific arrangements with New Zealand and Papua New Guinea, and I think that all Australians would see those arrangements as being proper arrangements with 2 very close neighbours. They warrant consideration. They have brought problems in regard to manufactured goods, specifically with New Zealand, but they are not problems that cannot be worked out by proper discussion between our 2 countries. It is to be hoped that the discussions similar to those that are taking place under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement can also bring about some proper long term arrangement with the ASEAN countries. The countries to the north of us and in our region, the countries that will supply the world with another 500 million people between now and the end of this century, will be presented with enormous problems in putting their people to work. All Australians should be aware of this and whichever government is in power ought to take the initiative to see that we settle the matter properly and to our mutual benefit. 
As I said earlier, I welcome the statement of the Minister and hope that the export incentive scheme is given rapid consideration. As honourable members on this side of the House said when the expenditure cut was made in the 1976 Budget, that cut was a false economy. It thrust greater problems on our industries than was needed at the time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In accordance with Standing Orders, I move: 
That this Bill be referred to a select committee. 
I ask honourable members opposite to listen to the Opposition's reasons for moving this motion. This is perhaps the most complex piece of legislation to come before the Parliament since many honourable members, including myself, have been here. Very few people in this Parliament understand exactly what is involved in the Bill. Unfortunately the Government has presented us with a situation where there has been no cut-off point in the representations it has received from trade unions, business houses or consumer groups. When we came into the Parliament this afternoon to conclude the debate on this Bill we were handed another 12 pages of amendments. Anyone in this Parliament knows that if we went to a lawyer's office and asked for an opinion on one word the lawyer would want 2 or 3 weeks and $2,000 or $3,000 to tell us what it meant. The Trade Practices Commission itself has been reluctant to interpret certain words in the Act as it stands. It is beyond comprehension that the Government then should expect members of Parliament in the absence of legislative committees to understand the ramifications of the Bill which it proposes to put through before this Parliament rises on Thursday week. 
I can understand as well as any honourable member in this House the reasons for wanting to conclude this session next week. We have had a fairly long session. However, they do not excuse the Parliament for rushing through measures such as amendments to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill which we have before us. To ask the Opposition when it is sitting in the House to comprehend 12 pages of further amendments based upon further representations made to the Government since the Bill was given to us is to push the legislation through without anybody understanding it. If this Bill is pushed through and honourable members opposite are asked next week by their constituents, friends or legal advisers to explain what it means, not one will be able to tell them. Honourable members opposite sit there and put up their hands but I do not know whether these amendments have even been given to the Government parties. So I ask honourable members opposite to act responsibly on this matter. 
It is beyond the forms of the House to ask the Opposition to deal with this legislation in this way. This legislation will affect the lives of every consumer, trade unionist and business house and the Government is pushing through the legislation, the ramifications of which will be felt for years. So the Opposition feels that the only way to deal with it is to refer the whole lot to a select committee. 
I join with the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in expressing views on behalf of the Opposition different from the views of the Government on the abolition of public hearings. No case has been made out as to why this is occurring. A comparison was made with the draft decisions of the Industries Assistance Commission. But they are made available after a public hearing. The Commission itself has set a standard in relation to why it calls a public hearing. This is not under challenge. There may be those who say that such a hearing is expensive and longwinded. Nevertheless, it does the service of maintaining public confidence which is one of the terms used by the Commission itself in outlining why it calls public hearings. 
Perhaps some of the cases over the last couple of years in which the Commission has called public hearings have gone on a little longer than they needed. Perhaps there has been a period in which the Commission itself has tried to make everybody understand its purposes. As I said last night, the Commission saw the Act as setting general principles as a guideline for companies to abide by. Now, we are returning to a case by case situation where it will not be as easy for government instrumentalities, in this case the Commission, to see what is happening. I should like to hear from the Minister for Business and Consumer affairs  (Mr Howard)  why he opposes the selection by the Commission of the public hearings listed in its annual report. These are the tied marketing arrangements of the Shell Company of Australia, the permanent building society insurance requirements, the brewery ties and the Media Council of Australia accreditation agreements. I should have thought there was great public interest in the evidence given at those public hearings. The Commission ought to have been commended for the manner in which it selected those hearings as being public. I cannot understand how we expect to have greater public confidence under this legislation by closing the door- later in the Act we have done that in terms of who can be present at these draft determinations - than we had in the past by holding these public hearings. There have been more than public hearings in relation to one company or one set of circumstances. The Commission has tried to select the activities in which it believes many other operations can find their own levels. I believe that it has done that. I do not believe that this has placed an overburden on the staff of the Commission in the number of public inquiries it has held. If it had, I would have suggested to the Government that the resources ought to be strengthened so that the hearings could continue. The argument used against the hearings by the Government is on very flimsy ground and provokes great suspicion in the community as to why it is occurring. I believe that the Commission is to be commended not criticised for the manner in which it has, in the past, called these public hearings for the public benefit. 
-Like the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  I express the view that it seems strange that the Government has acted upon the recommendations of the Swanson Committee in relation to the previous powers of the Minister under the Trade Practices Act. Whilst not having any recommendations from Swanson- who seemed to be such an influential guide to what the Government was going to write into the new Bill- the Government has added something to those powers. I am one of those parliamentarians who believe that Parliament ought to accept all the responsibilities for the decisions that have to be made in relation to the general Australian community. I do not believe that we should be passing off our responsibilities to authorities, groups or committees outside the Parliament in the hope that by that method we can escape the responsibility of governing the country. I do not find it unique or amusing that Swanson, with the makeup of the committee as it was, would have found the powers of the Minister under the old Act abhorrent. Nevertheless, I am amused that the Government has acted upon the Swanson Committee recommendations in relation to the powers of the Minister as they were which, I understand, were used no more than 3 times and which were on public view for criticism if need be, so that  now we  find that proposed new section 29 of the principal Act will read: 
1 ) The Minister may- 
give directions as to matters to be given special consideration by the Commission in determining applications for authorizations or in making decisions for the purposes of paragraph 93 (3) (a) or (b); and 
give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act, not including, except as mentioned in paragraph (a), functions or powers related directly or indirectly to Part VII, and the Commission shall comply with any directions so given. 
It would seem to me, on reading what is contained in the new Bill, that the Government is somewhat attracted by the initial motivations of the Labor Government Act as far as trade practices are concerned but that, rather than give it some sort of recognition, the Government decided to change the compliance. It has to be either one thing or the other. Either the Government believes in ministerial or parliamentary responsibility as far as some of these decisions are concerned or it does not. As we heard in the second reading debate, in spite of the setting up of commissions such as the Trade Practices Commission there is an ultimate responsibility with the Parliament to see that all works well and in accord with not only what we may think is fair competition but also what we think is in the long term interests of Australia. But, rather than give recognition to the Labor Government for what it did in the original Act, that Act has been changed somewhat without any recommendation from the Swanson Committee, upon whose recommendations the previous powers are now being repealed. I think that warrants a somewhat lengthier explanation by the Minister. 
Following what the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  had to say, let me point out on behalf of this side of the chamber that the 
Minister's specific responsibility under the previous Act seems to me to have a far more desirable impact upon the force of the law than does the amendment now moved by the Government. I am not greatly attracted to political interference in the Trade Practices Commission. I know from what members of the Commission have written that the Commission is not greatly attracted to the idea of political interference. As they say, they do not consider themselves merely an advisory body. 
I was interested to Hear the Minister say that it was far more beneficial as far as the Parliament was concerned, irrespective of who was in power, to have a general guideline rather than a specific guideline. From reading the reports of the Commission, it would seem to me that the Commission was not very happy about the relationship between the previous Act and themselves in relation to specific directions. We do not stand here tonight to defend that. 
It was interesting to note the Minister say that the Trade Practices Commission in reaching a decision had to be cognisant of economic factors, Government economic objectives and all of the nice cliches which political parties and politicians use. I would be very amazed if that sounds a more attractive set of guidelines to the Commission than does the old system under which the Minister made a specific decision in relation to where he had the power. As I said, that power was used 3 times. If the Government, acting on the advice of Swanson, had merely repealed this power there would be less objection from this side of the House. But to re-write this function, to interpret it in the manner in which the Minister had done and then to compare it perhaps in terms of the relationship between the Government and the Industries Assistance Commission seems rather amazing. What the Minister is really saying is that he wants the Government to have the ultimate control anyhow, and that the Trade Practices Commission must act within the confines of the Government's economic objectives, not merely by the way in which the Government writes the law but in the broad sense of saying that the Minister will give directions that will not be specific but which the Commission it hopes, will understand. 
The Minister knows that since he has been the Minister responsible for the IAC he has sent off a couple of letters to that body which merely refer in similar tones to the Act itself how the IAC will conduct itself in bringing down its recommendations, taking into account the economy, employment and so forth. But, ultimately when these recommendations get back here, as they did during our term of government and as they will during the term of the present Government, once they reach the Cabinet a decision has to be made. Occasionally governments like to hide behind the IAC and say: 'Well, they are using all their expertise and we are adopting their recommendations'. But now the Government says that it is not going to write a letter to the Trade Practices Commission but rather it is going to write into the legislation a very cosy clause that in future the Commission will be cognisant of its economic objectives. As I say, that does not seem to me to be a more attractive offer than the previous legislation contained as far as the independence of the Trade Practices Commission is concerned. I would suggest that the Government has gone overboard in this matter. There does not seem to be any reason why it should propose this action. It has not pointed to any specific cases outside of being critical of the activities of perhaps the former Government in relation to the 3 cases I have mentioned. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to write into the Act the power to give general guidelines to the Trade Practices Commission. 
When we think about it, the Commission has talked about the establishment of some sort of long term guidelines which competitors can understand so that proper business conduct can be achieved. But if the Minister was to write a letter every 3 months to the Commission and say: 'Look, you are slightly off course. Will you please come back on course? This is not really what the Government is about. Will you start making decisions slightly different from what you have been making to reflect Government policy or decisions', it seems to me that we are making the role of the Commission slightly impossible. 
I do not think that the Minister has presented an argument as to why he should write in the new powers of the Minister. At the same time, he has based his argument on the need to take out the powers of the Minister under the old Act. If we were to support the repeal of the power of the Minister under the old Act we certainly could not support the power given to the Minister in this Bill. 
-To restate the Opposition's case in relation to ministerial responsibility for the Trade Practices Act, we have said previously, and we acted upon this in Government, that we wished to see consumer affairs taken out of this area and given to a different Minister, as in the case of restrictive trade practices. It is still the view held by members on this side of the House that the contradiction of the one Minister being responsible for restrictive trade practices and consumer affairs is not in the best interest of consumers. We would switch those areas back. We do not see anything snide in that, although in a future Labor administration trade practices would once again  be the responsibility of the Attorney-General. There would be nothing snide about changing back the responsibility. 
I rise merely on a point of procedure because the Government has informed us that come hell or high water we have to finish this very important piece of legislation this evening. I can understand the Government's dilemma but, as one of the members of this Parliament who has some pride in serving here and as one of the members of the Parliament who served on the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, I think that what is happening this evening is an absolute disgrace. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  unbeknown to any honourable member who sits behind him, has moved 4'/4 pages of amendments. 
When I was 16 years of age I went to the first meeting in my life that could or perhaps should have changed the rules of the organisation of which I was a member. To change one word, to change a paragraph, to write in a new rule, took considerable discussion and quite a deal of time. We are in the national Parliament of Australia. Because proposed section 45D dominates the influence of the Trade Practices Bill in this House, as I said last night, we have allowed ourselves to be captured in the net of discussing not only the impact of proposed section 45D, but the most important clause that I think I have ever seen discussed in the Committee stage of any Bill. We have before us 4! pages of amendments moved by the Minister. 
I do not suggest that in any way the Minister is trying to hide the ramifications of any of the minor alterations that may have taken place in those amendments but I do think that we ought to be self-critical about the way in which this Bill is being handled. The honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  gave us a 10 minute diatribe about one industrial dispute and for that we are supposed to believe that we are changing the laws of Australia to bring about enormous industrial disruption. There is no recipe in the battle between labour and capital. All we can do is try to bring about some sort of peaceful settlement to those disputes. Using the national Parliament to try to take points on George Apap, or George Polites, or Bob Hawke or whoever else it might be, does not settle a thing outside this Parliament. I must say on behalf of the Opposition that of course this Bill will go through. The numbers are on the other side of the chamber. Of course the laws will be written but we will have to say that we were members of the Parliament that wrote those laws and we will have to be held responsible for the impact and the effect of the laws that we have written. I find it extremely difficult- I must be perfectly honest about it- to follow the concept of the impact of the trade practices law as it was, as it was re-written in the Bill presented in December, as it is re-written again in the Bill now being considered and as it will be re-written by the amendments that were given to us this afternoon. 
I do not think anyone understands the provisions easily. I do not think it does us any credit to treat the Bill in the way it is being treatedsaying that this Bill must become law tonight. The only people who will be able to tell us next week about the impact of these laws are people outside the Parliament, the professionals who will sit down as from tonight to try to advise people as to what it all means. Frankly, no member of Parliament will be in a position to give some sort of generalised attitude as to what has taken place tonight. The Opposition does not want to be held responsible for what is occurring. There are other speakers on this side of the chamber who will reflect their views about what is likely to occur. I intend to do that also on some specific areas of the Bill. In terms of how the Parliament operates as a Committee of the Whole in dealing with the Committee stage it is insufficient in dealing with the complexities of legislation. Far earlier than now we ought to have adopted the suggestions of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System to have a legislative procedure in the Committee stage so that people would understand the impact of these things. We have not adopted this course and I would not be surprised if we are not making ourselves a laughing stock in the view of the professional people around Australia. 
Like the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  I think it is of great significance that this Government, which came to power on the wave of being generous to business, understanding business and representing business, has been forced to retain section 49, dealing with price discrimination, at the behest, perseverence and representation of the Australian Labor Party. The small business people who came to Canberra were duped into believing that it was not necessary to give evidence to the Swanson Committee in relation to consolidating section 49 of the Act. They then found that the Swanson Committee, without any representation from the people who were affected, recommended to the Government the deletion of section 49. The Government, having a heart much closer to the Swanson Committee than to the people who were affected, carried out the views of the Swanson Committee. It was left to this side of the chamber- it just shows the force occasionally of 36 votes to 91 votes- to convince the Government, not on the most important aspects of the Bill, but that section 49 and the protection given by it to the small business people ought to remain. It has been retained as a result of the representations and perseverence of the Australian Labor Party. 
Let me refer to the matter raised by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who referred to trade associations with fewer than 50 members. Unfortunately this Parliament has been somewhat shocked by the shabby treatment this Bill is receiving from the Government. Knowing the mentality of most honourable members opposite I can understand that they would rather go home to bed than consider the laws being written by them. Nevertheless, this may be another case where the Government has ignored the role of the small business person. The Minister said in his second reading speech that it was the managerial back-up, so called, that was lacking in small business which encouraged the Government to write in the provision relating to trade associations of 50 or more members. However, it ignored the people who may belong to associations of 50 or more people and ignored the people in associations which did not have that number. Consider the liquor trades and the major retail stores. I do not know whether David Jones Ltd has lack of managerial back up or whether the Australian Hotels Association has lack of managerial back up, but this is a provision which can be used against the smaller business person. It has been used against him in the past prior to the operation of the Act and it will be used against him again. The Government has ignored this. It does not want the measure exposed and that is why it has moved the gag on this Bill. The Opposition supports section 49 as it stands. It is in accordance with our representations to the Parliament. It has been successful. Unfortunately the Government has ignored the representations on many other sections of the Act but, nevertheless, the Australian Labor Party was successful with this section. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 25. 
Section 50 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted- 
"50.(1) .... 
"(3) A reference in this section to controlling or dominating a market for goods or services shall be construed as a reference to controlling or dominating such a market either as a supplier or as an acquirer of goods or services in that market. "(4) Where- 
a corporation has entered into a contract to acquire shares in the capital, or assets, of a body corporate; 
b) the contract is subject to a condition that the contract will not come into force unless and until the corporation has been granted an authorization to acquire the shares or assets; and 
the corporation applied for the grant of such an authorization before the expiration of 14 days after the contract was entered into, the acquisition of the shares or assets shall not be regarded for the purposes of this Act as having taken place in pursuance of the contract before- 
the application for the authorization is disposed of; or 
e ) the contract ceases to be subject to the condition, whichever first happens. "(5) For the purposes of sub-section (4), an application for an authorization shall be taken to be disposed of- 
in a case to which paragraph (b) of this sub-section does not apply- at the expiration of 14 days after the period in which an application may be made to the Tribunal for a review of the determination by the Commission of the application for the authorization; or 
if an application is made to the Tribunal for a review of the determination by the Commission of the application for the authorization- at the expiration of 14 days after the date of the making by the Tribunal of a determination of the review. ". 
-We on this side of the House say that to all intents and purposes section 50 is being abolished. The views expressed by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  are similar to those held by honourable members serving on this side of the House, namely, that what the Trade Practices Commission saw in this Act was a sort of total competition law which was operating in this country. The problem in proving contravention under section 46 of the Act and the amendments which are now being proposed to section 50 means that the competition which the Commission was intent upon maintaining will no longer exist. It will leave a very great gap as far as we are concerned in our operations. 
Commission was intent upon maintaining will no longer exist. It will leave a very great gap as far as we are concerned in our operations. 
Let me reiterate what I said last night in relation to the Trade Practices Commission looking at this question of mergers. We have this enormous conflict in our minds in making laws in the Parliament about the need to maintain competition. We also need to keep in mind that in many ways our industries will be serviced in the future by their ability to compete internationally. Sometimes it would seem- I am sure it works out in practice- that there is a clash between those 2 ideals, that sometimes a merger which would be in the long term interests of Australia may not take place. The Commission itself has had a great deal to say about the matter. Whilst the Minister said earlier in the evening that he was not being critical of the activities of the Commission but that ultimately the role of government had to be taken up, nevertheless, in many cases, the Government seems to be flying in the face of what the Commission has had to say. Like the honourable member for Grayndler, I think it would indeed be very gratifying if we could receive the views of the Commission in relation to the Bill that is now before the chamber altering the trade practices laws in this country. 
I remind honourable members of what the Commission had to say about competition. It said: 
As competition is so central to the Act, it may be useful to quote what the Trade Practices Tribunal had to say, when discussing competition in general terms in its only decision so far on the merits of an authorisation case taken to it on review from the Commission (the Barnes-Milling merger case): 
 Competition may be valued for many reasons as serving economic, social and political goals. But in identifying the existence of competition in particular industries or markets we must focus upon its economic role as a device for controlling the disposition of society's resources. Thus we think of competition as a mechanism for discovery of market information and for enforcement of business decisions in the light of this information. It is a mechanism, first, for firms discovering the kinds of goods and services the community wants and the manner in which these may be supplied in the cheapest possible way. Prices and profits are the signals which register the play of these forces of demand and supply. At the same time, competition is a mechanism of enforcement: Firms disregard these signals at their peril, being fully aware that there are other firms, either currently in existence or yet unborn, which would be only too willing to encroach upon their market share and ultimately supplant them. 
In giving that view, the Commission also quoted from the 1955 report of the United States Attorney-General National Committee to Study the Antitrust Laws. It stated: 
The basic characteristic of effective competition in the economic sense is that no one seller, and no group of sellers acting in concert, has the power to choose its level of profits by giving less and charging more. Where there is workable competition, rival sellers, whether existing competitors or new potential entrants into the field, would keep this power in check by offering or threatening to offer effective inducements. 
As I have said, the Commission places a great deal of emphasis upon competition. We need to have from the Government an argument as to how competition will be maintained with these amendments. The Minister said a great deal more. He said that the people who have previously sought clearance and authorisation no longer will need to do so. As I said, it would seem to us on this side of the chamber that section 50 is to be abolished. In some ways- one cannot give instances- but it is not a total opposition from this side about what might have to happen in industry in Australia. There has been no expression from the Government about the maintenance of competition or the maintenance of the expertise or surveillance as the Commission has known it. From looking at the charts and the statistics at the back of the annual reports, it would seem to me that the Government would have to identify these vast numbers of mergers that are being held up. As far as the Commission itself is concerned, it says that it has a certain selfenforcement in that some mergers are not sought because of the law as it exists. It may be that a lot of those figures do not appear here because of that self-enforcement feature of the Act as it now exists. It seems, from looking at the figures that have existed since October 1 974, that as far as the Trade Practices-Commission is concerned, a charge of holding up mergers, of delaying mergers and of not acting in the interests of industry, whether it be a failing company or whatever, just does not hold water. In the total competition law this section is vital to the operations of the Trade Practices Commission. Until the Government gives a better explanation, or perhaps amends the legislation in such a fashion as to answer the questions raised by the Opposition and perhaps satisfy us that the Commission will still maintain these powers to survey the competition as it thinks it should exist or as the laws of the land say it should exist, we stand opposed to the amendment. 

 Thursday, 26 May 1977 Question put: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
It was unfortunate that last evening the Government decided that the debate should be gagged on the clause directly related to section  45D.  It would not be unusual for anybody following or observing parliamentary proceedings to find that we on this side of the chamber have a lot to say about the roping in of the activities of trade unions into the Trade Practices Act. This provision was not initially envisaged to be part of that Act. Obviously it will not be complied with. As I said in the second reading debate the night before last, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which the Government seems to have ignored, has decided that should anybody be caught in the net of section  45D  and m the interpretation of the clause that is now under discussion, they will meet with the full support of the Australian trade union movement. 
The Government does not seem to understand what that means or to have considered how many circumstances could arise that would bring about such an enormous national confrontation. The Government ought to cast its mind back to the actions that were taken against the Secretary of the Victorian Tramways Union, Clarrie 0'Shea. The events of that time are very vivid in my memory. The then government no doubt felt at that time that because Clarrie 0*Shea was a professed member of one of the communist parties of that time the public would feel no sympathy for him and the trade unions would not gather around him. Quite the opposite was the case, to the amazement of both the government of the day- the government in 1969- and many of us in the Labor movement. 
It was not just the so-called left wing unions or militant unions which decided to take action in support of Clarrie O'Shea and against the decision of the present Governor-General to gaol him. Action was taken by 95 per cent of all the unions that existed in Australia. They decided that the action would be as unanimous and as spontaneous as possible in the Australian context so as to bring about a settlement whereby the unions would show that they would not comply with laws as harsh and as unreasonable as the laws that are now envisaged in relation to the Trade Practices Act. There are plenty of examples throughout the Western world of governments deciding that this just cannot be done- and it should not be done, because of what it means. 
We are now talking about how people may offend against the various sections of the Trade Practices Act. In that context one immediately thinks of sharp business deals that might go on in the country and of people getting together and deciding to maintain an artificial price for their goods or services. But here we are talking about someone who gets up at 7 o'clock or 8 o'clock in the morning and goes off to his job down the mines, on the wharves, driving a bus, serving in a bank or insurance company, or whatever it may be. All we have heard from the Government- it has come from its back bench members- is about one or two isolated instances of industrial disputes that the Government does not like. Yet all of a sudden we find that a trade union could be subjected to a fine of up to $250,000. 
As I said in the second reading debate, the Government said that it had reached a compromise by removing the provision for the imposition of a penalty of up to $50,000 on an individual. I think that it is a good example of the thinking of the Liberal Party of Australia that it should consider fining working people $50,000. How would a working man find that sort of money? One would have to be floating on cloud 9 to think that that sort of law could be applied. The Government has removed that fine, but a fine of up to $250,000 can be imposed in relation to some of the hard-fought-for traditions of trade unions. 
-Members of this Parliament, expecially the young pups on the other side of the chamber such as the honourable member for Barker, should, while they are members of this Parliament, which will not be for much longer in his case, listen to honourable members on this side of the chamber, especially the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  whose advice and experience surpass that of anybody else sitting in this Parliament, particularly when he says that a union that participates in what may be appropriately called a sympathy strike is not then going to allow itself to be fined $250,000. Quite honestly it is just not on. 
The unions will not comply with such a law. When one union is taken to the test the Government will have a major confrontation with the whole trade union movement. For the benefit of honourable members opposite I say that it ought to be understood that Australia is one of the most highly unionised countries in the world. A lot of that has to do with some of the obsessions of employers late in the nineteenth century and early in this century. A lot of the emergence of the trade union movement has to do with the attitude of employers in this country over the last 100 years. 
As I have said, in writing laws such as this the Government is living on cloud 9. The Government has tried to interpret in the clause under discussion what may be removed and what may be the exceptions- remunerations, conditions of work and so on- but, because one person works on the wharves, another works as a printer for John Fairfax and Sons and yet another sorts mail at the Redfern Mail Exchange, does the Government think that it could ever cut the link that joins those people together? A sympathy strike is not a new sort of strike. The Government calls it a secondary boycott. In industrial relations terms it is a sympathy strike and it is not new. It emerged as a result of some of the smaller and perhaps industrially weaker unions calling upon the people outside to give them some sort of assistance that would allow them to lift their wages and working conditions to a proper, respectable and acceptable standard. 
Honourable members opposite ought to read the Jackson Committee's report about some of the deplorable conditions under which people work in this country. Of course action will continue to be taken by trade unions. Is the Government going to sit there and say: 'This has to be outlawed. We cannot have these sorts of actions being taken to assist the smaller unions or to assist people to improve their working conditions. This is going to stop them '? Of course it is not going to stop them. All this law is going to do is to impose even harder problems on business and the industrial development of this country. Obviously it just will not work. 
A few weeks ago we had the case of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  telling some of his supporters- the beef producers of the country- not to send their beef cattle to the markets. That was his view. He thought that they would be better off if they earned out that instruction. There was not one word of criticism from the Government. That is not dissimilar to what happens amongst working people. Does the Government believe that by this law it can cast a net to catch the total of almost 6 million wage and salary earners in Australia? We are witnessing the emergence of the white collar organisations. 
Just take notice of what I am saying. We are witnessing the emergence of the white collar organisations. We are no longer talking about just the wharfies, the seamen and the miners. A new circumstance applies in the industrial relations field in Australia. If the Government believes that by this law it can throw out a net to catch all of those people, to frighten them and to put them back into their burrows, it has another think coming. 
-My little friend-little in mindthe honourable member for Parramatta, who was brought up on the bottle by his father, looked after and pushed into the Parliament, now refers to the law breakers. The honourable member for Parramatta, who possibly has never had to go to work in his life, suggests that people who go to work and who decide at a union meeting to take some action in support of workers in another factory or at another site are law breakers. That is where we divide. We do not believe that people who go to work are law breakers. We do not believe that people who go to work are criminals. We do not believe that it is to the advantage of this country that the Government should adopt that sort of attitude. It shows how naive and stupid the Government is in trying to push this law, because obviously it is not going to work and it ought to be rejected out of hand. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles) 
Order! The honourable members time has expired. 
-The consideration of the remainder of the Bill- from clause 52 onwards- gives one an opportunity to restate the Opposition's case in relation to this Bill. We are now coming to the conclusion of what has been a rather lengthy debate, taking up possibly 13 or 14 hours, which is quite unique in debates on legislation. The consideration of this subject has been in the form of a debate on 2 Bills that have been before this chamber over the last 6 months, a report by an outside committee and debate on a further group of amendments circulated yesterday. Let me say, in respect of the opposition that we have been expressing to the alteration of the Trade Practices Act that has been taking place, that it will be our endeavour when next in government again to strengthen those areas that we believe have been weakened by this Bill. Secondly, I think that the debate on this Bill points up the enormous gap that exists in parliamentary proceedings in that there would be very few people- I do not want to overstate or understate the position- who would have a clear understanding of the laws as they will be when this Bill is finally passed by this Parliament. 
The Opposition took very strong objection yesterday to the manner in which the Government treated the Opposition in bringing in 12 pages of amendments. It is not a question of suspicion of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  or the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs; it is a question of proper consultation between the Government and the Opposition, of keeping to the forms of this chamber and of the Government having a cut-off time so that proper consideration can be given by the Opposition to the alteration of the laws that is taking place in relation to a Bill such as this. That was not done. The fact that we took exception yesterday was perhaps pointed up today in that, in a discussion earlier in the evening, when the Minister had seen the wisdom of our criticism he took us into his confidence about a further amendment and sought our leave to remove what the Government considers to be an ill-judged amendment, which was a part of the 12 pages of amendments produced yesterday, so that the Government could have time to redraft it. 
Perhaps the missing link in this whole discussion, since legislation was first brought before us in December in the form of the first Bill, is that the Trade Practices Commission itself was not invited to make further comment. I know that there was great criticism about what it said when the Swanson Committee's report was first tabled in this chamber. There were people opposite and many people outside who said that that was not the role of the Trade Practices Commission. Nevertheless, the Commission has been quick to point out that it does not see itself as being merely an advisory body. 
Some changes are taking place in the relationship not merely because of the role of the Minister but, as we see it, as a result of the weakening of the powers or authorisation of the Trade Practices Commission. That obviously is going to mean a great restructuring and rethinking on the part of the Commission, which is something to which we were opposed- and we were opposed to it for a number of reasons. In general terms we were opposed to it because the Commission had been pointing out, as had the Government in 1974 when the Act came into being, that trade practices had to have time for this great self-enforcement process to come into operation. Massive changes have now taken place. The Opposition is not opposed to all of them. There have been instances in the case of the High Court and in the case of consumer protection areas where, taken separately, the Opposition would have been quick to support the Government in relation to what has occurred. But, when we have before us a Bill that contains so much to which we object, then obviously we are opposed to it, as I said on behalf of the Opposition at the commencement of the debate 2 days ago. 
We are not happy about a whole number of matters. That is the situation on this side of the chamber. It has been interesting for me to note- I expect that each member of the Parliament has received them, too- the letter I received in my office today from the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the newsletter from the Australian Industries Development Association in which those organisations have pointed out what they consider to be the unclear passages in the amendments to the Act and the objectionable recommendations inherent in the amendments to the Act. So, it is not just a question of drawing a clear political line on where one stands in relation to trade practices. A number of people are bewildered by what is happening in this respect. 
As I said earlier, it points up the weakness of the Parliament and the way in which it treats very complex legislation that the Bill has gone through in this manner. I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who was so quick to act, in part, on the recommendations of the Committee on Committees in setting up the Expenditure Committee, should look very quickly at perhaps prescribing some of the key areas of legislation that ought to be dealt with by legislative committees before that legislation goes to the Committee of the Whole. In that way perhaps members of Parliament could gain a better understanding of the laws they are making. No doubt in the weeks ahead each and every one of us, especially those of us who have been associated with the drafting of the Bill or the debate on it, will be asked many questions that none of us individually or collectively will be able to answer and we will be sending them off to the lawyers throughout Australia, hoping that they can give some sort of reasonable interpretation of the law as it now stands. It is an extremely important law. 
As the Australian Council of Trade Unions said, the changes that have taken place concerning the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal do in certain respects expose the double standards adopted by this Government in relation to both sides of the business world- the employers and the employees. Nevertheless we will continue, at the completion of the discussion on this Bill, to vote against it because not only do we object to specific items of change but also we object as strongly as possible to the inclusion of the provision which now attempts, by the interpretation which has been given to it in the House, to cover secondary boycotts and the role of trade unions. A great deal of argument from this side of the chamber has suggested that it will not be merely secondary boycotts that are covered but that perhaps a far wider interpretation will be given to it. We cannot stand by and watch a law, which we would describe as being a bad law- which we know will not be complied with, go through without our raising objections. 
For that reason we place on record that when people are scratching their heads and wondering what is really involved in this new trade practices legislation the cause of their questions and their objections is the responsibility of the Government. We have pointed out time and time again that the process by which this legislation will become law has been subject to our continued objection. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of the depressed state of the motor vehicle industry in Australia at present? Is he also aware that the sales of motor vehicles this year are likely to be the lowest for the past four years? Does the Prime Minister not agree that the vicious increase in the price of petrol announced in the Budget last night will increase buyer resistance to the locally produced motor vehicle? Will he agree to the calling of a meeting of industry leaders and the trade unions involved in the industry to discuss the future of the industry and any structural adjustment programs that may be required to buffer the effect of the increase in the price of petrol in this country? 
-Whilst some aspects of the statement made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  are welcomed by honourable members on this side of the House, nonetheless the statement exposes the weaknesses inherent in the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry which was tabled in this House only a few weeks ago. The procedures by which the Industries Assistance Commission must operate in future are becoming increasingly complex. Obviously the IAC charter is being altered quite dramatically, if not by legislation then by design, in view of the new moves made tonight by the Government. 
When the White Paper was tabled there were a number of us on this side of the House who said that it lacked detail about the structural adjustment program which must be inherent in the Government's policy in dealing with the problems of rundown industries in Australia. Whilst the statements tonight by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs weigh very heavily upon our relationship with the countries which make up the Association of South East Asian Nations, those countries are only pan of the total number of our trading partners. 
There were some very nice cliches in part of the statement made by the Minister. He talked about the relatively favourable movement in the trade balance between Australia and the ASEAN countries. We have far more problems than just trying to isolate the trade with those five nations making up ASEAN. Obviously an Australian Government is going to have to deal with all of them. The draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission, which very conveniently became available to the public just a few days prior to the Prime Minister's visit to Kuala Lumpur, weighed very heavily upon the words of the Government in the White Paper. Time and again the IAC, in its draft report, quoted the White Paper as being Government policy and said that what it recommended was directly related to what the Government itself had said in that paper. The IAC acted accordingly. Now, before there is any final report by the IAC, we find that the Government has moved in to break the mechanism set up for the IAC to look at these industries. 
The Government should look further than just the industries we are discussing tonight. It is all right to say that the employment figures in the textile, clothing and shoe industries has dropped from 167,000 to 120,000 but the number of people working in manufacturing industry has dropped from 28 per cent of our work force to 20 per cent. The question facing any government in this country is where is it going to end? Are we to take it to the level where only those industries which have natural protection are to survive or is the Government going to make decisions that give what it calls the greatest certainty on economic prospects essential for investment and employment in this country? 
At the moment manufacturing industry throughout this country has the jitters. As I pointed out to the Prime Minister this morning, the increase in petrol prices will do nothing but cause jitters again in the auto industry. Tonight we are talking about textiles, clothes and shoes. Next week we will be talking about the auto industry and the week after that we will be talking about other industries. At the moment 5.4 per cent of our total work force is registered as unemployed. Obviously the Government has to do more than make this very short statement tonight about what might happen in industry. 
Let us look at some of the extraordinary features of this statement. Firstly, it refers back to the IAC for comment the future of these industries and the employment opportunities in these industries. Should they be rationalised? It refers to all the things that the IAC has said already. The IAC has told the Government quite bluntly what will occur with a rundown in protection in the long term. It has said that it is costing Australian consumers $600m to sustain these industries. The Government has to make up its mind about what it wants to do. It cannot continually keep thrusting back these questions on to the IAC. The buck must stop with the Government. It has to make the decision. To keep changing the rules of the game in relation to what the IAC must say is no good because it cannot make government policy. The Government itself must take responsibility for policy. 
We have another extraordinary feature relating to this question of quotas. The Government has said that it is not going to allow the unemployment figures relating to these industries to rise any higher than they are already. However, the Minister has put forward an extraordinary view in this statement tonight" about part of the quotas. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has pointed out time and again in this House that there is malpractice in the allocation of quotas. We now have the Government saying that it has to do something to protect the industries because they are going through an economic recession, but at the same time it says that sections of our industries are going off-shore and in order to assist them to set up and become viable off-shore they will have part of the quotas. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  is always talking about protection although, to his disgrace, not always about industry. Nevertheless his firm or his father's firm is now being encouraged to go off-shore because this Government has said that that industry can have part of the quotas. One of the ways in which this Government is going to assist these Australian companies to go into the industrial zones of Singapore, Taiwan or South Korea, thus becoming trans-national, is to guarantee that they will be able to get back into the Australian market. That represents only part of the recipe for what has to occur. 
We on this side of the House said in the debate on the White Paper that until the Government starts talking in real terms about structural adjustment, retraining and the further employment of people and the relocation of people all it is doing is kicking the football up and down the ground. There is no concrete decision in relation to these industries. Of course it was fruitful for the Prime Minister to take to Kuala Lumpur under his arm the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission and say: 'There is part of the government machinery. We are telling those industries that in the long term there will be no protection'. But on the second day of this session, after his return from Kuala Lumpur, he said: 'There will be none of that nonsense. We are not having that'. The countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations will have to read both of his statements. If the Government puts all of its eggs in the one basket in its talks with the ASEAN countries it will be making a very grave mistake because in that region there is a great deal of protection by the home countries of their local industries. We are dealing with many countries. The report of the IAC did not say that the problem is one concerning only the ASEAN countries. There is also a problem with Eastern Europe, China and many other nations where the trading balance has been in Australia's favour for over two decades. 
The Government has to start to assure the workers of this country that something decent will be done for them if they loose their jobs. Sooner or later in the development of this country, with the population growth as it is now, many industries will find it very difficult to attract the labour that they need. We have time to move to assure the work force that it is not going to carry all the burden of the decisions that this Government may have to make in relation to those industries. If the Government continues to do what it is doing at the moment it will make a complete farce of the transformation of the work force and what has to be done in the interests of this country and the $800m worth of protection spoken about earlier tonight will be increased in two years to $ 1 billion worth of protection. 
The Government talks about the problem of inflation. The Government is making it far more difficult for itself to achieve what it is setting out to do. The Government has to say to the IAC: 'Here are the rules by which you will operate'. It cannot say that it should play the first quarter under one set of rules and the second quarter under a different set of rules. In the instance of this report the Government is gambling with the livelihood of 127 000 workers in this country. It is also gambling with the livelihood of the people who live off the income poured into this community as a result of those people being able to find employment. These people have to be guaranteed employment at this time of very high unemployment. Some classical economist would say that this is a good opportunity to change the work force and restructure it because the unemployment rate is 5.4 per cent and there is no reason why it should not be 8 per cent. The Government now has time to retrain, relocate and to assure the work force that what is being done is being done in the interest of Australia. 
Whilst the Government says in a very muddled way what has been said in this statement tonight it is no further along the road towards achieving what may be described as being best for Australia. The Government is on its hands and knees to the ASEAN countries. By achieving nothing it is ignoring the rest of the trading partners. It is again ignoring the benefits that flow through to the work force from people being able to go to work. It is also ignoring the plight of the people who are already unemployed. The Government cannot talk about these three industries in isolation. It has to talk about the total manufacturing base of this country. This Government will have to make up its mind as to where the dismantling stops. 
-What is happening in Victoria, which is the State from which the honourable members who are making all the interjections come? The very brilliant honourable member for Bendigo, who sits at the back of the House, has in his electorate a number of very minor industries which will be dismantled instantly unless this Government comes up with a program for dealing with the problems confronted by Australians. We may not have been dealing in trade as long as some of the other countries but we can be as hard and tough as they are. Our first priority and responsibility is to the work force in Australia. It is our first responsibility. It is not always a matter of locking the members of the work force into the jobs in which they are now engaged. It is a matter of seeing that the transformation from the job in which they are now engaged to the job that they should do in the long term to the benefit of Australia is carried out with government assistance and government guidance. The Government is threatening the jobs of certain people and saying: 'These 120 000 people have to carry the burden for the rest of the 13 million people who live in Australia. We are very sorry about that. It just so happens that they work in the textile industry, the shoe industry or the clothing industry'. It will always have a fight on its hands while it does that. If some honourable members opposite were to take the trouble to get away from reading comics and were to read the White Paper on manufacturing industry they would see at an instance all the things that are missing from it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting. I suggest that if the numerous private conversations and debates were to cease it would be of help to the honourable member. 
-The term that we should be setting out in a very positive manner is the only term that is missing from the Minister's statement tonight. I refer to the term 'market'. One cannot hold up industries without having a market. Until such time as we are able to claim markets outside this country or to rationalise the industry to meet the home market or part of this market, which is what these industries are doing, we are in trouble. It is not enough for the Minister or the Government simply to refer these matters back to the IAC and for supporters of the Government to go round the countryside saying: 'It is all the fault of the IAC. We would have won the game but for the IAC. The Government set the rules for the IAC. It makes the decisions on the IAC's report. It is no good sending the rule book back every time the Government is dissatisfied with a draft report. The whole issue of the clothing, textiles and shoes industry has been a ploy by the Government to grovel at the feet of the leaders of the ASEAN countries. The Government has no feelings at all for the workers of Australia. This has been an absolutely disgracefull exercise. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for St George moving forthwith the motion of which he has given notice for the next sitting. 
I also wish to reflect on today's occurrences because the honourable man about whom the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  spoke is also a person to whom I wish to direct some remarks. I listened to the honourable member for Denison say on 10 or 15 occasions in his speech tonight that this man was honourable and truthful. First, I think the honourable member should have come into the House and told us something about the person who has replaced him as a Minister- the Minister for Veterans' Affairs whom we on this side of the House describe as the best 500 player in the House. We would like to know from the AttorneyGeneral - 
-I withdraw,  Mr Speaker.  I just ask: Why was not the former Attorney-General so keen on his occupation when it involved a member of his own party? Why was he not then so keen to call witnesses and get all the truth? Why was it then that he did not stand up to Cabinet and convince Cabinet that this is what ought to have been done? 
There are two elements to the occurrences of today. First, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should have had sufficient courage to announce the Cabinet decision to the public and to the world and not leak it out in the very mangy way it was leaked because that brought about the downfall of the former AttorneyGeneral. But what else has this brought about? It brings to mind the activities of the present Prime Minister over a number of years. Let me go back just a few weeks. How many ministers made statements to the House a fortnight ago about uranium? There were six- the perfect package. One would have thought that politically it was Christmas. Everyone was to be convinced by the professional way in which the uranium package was sold to us. But what happened on 30 July? What happened in respect of the Prime Minister's office on that date? To find out one should look at an article which appeared in the  National Times. 
A story was leaked out that Justice Fox was not in favour of uranium mining. The Press was given the story unofficially from the Prime Minister's office. The  National Times  of 30 July associated the Prime Minister and his office with a lie, because Justice Fox made it very clear in a telegram to his fellow commissioners that that was not so. That was the start of selling the uranium issue to the public of this country. That is the way in which this Prime Minister operates. 
Have a look at what happened last week. The Prime Minister, when in New Guinea, unofficially told a couple of journalists travelling with him that interest rates were going to drop. This was not announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  or by anybody assisting the Treasurer. It was done straight off the top of his head. This is the way Cabinet is operating and this is the method to which every Minister, senior and junior, is to be subjected in the weeks and months ahead. This is the way in which this Prime Minister has always operated. He has the oldest, most worn out political knife in this country. If one does not abide by the way he operates one has to go and sit down at the back. Honourable members on this side of the House are getting sick and tired of speeches and statements from people leaving the Ministry and the Liberal Party. We will have to look at Standing Orders to see whether we can restrict the time that such members are given to make their statements because this will not be the end of it. 
I refer to the appointment of the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard).  I do not think there was any great long conference with the National Country Party of Australia about that appointment. This was again another peculiarity of the way in which this Prime Minister operates. Apparently by innuendo the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  is incompetent to deal with matters concerning the European Economic Community. The Minister for Special Trade Negotiations was appointed by this Prime Minister without any confirmation or discussion within the Cabinet about what should be operating. 
This country is littered with people who have been subjected to the political knife of the Prime Minister. The actions of his Press Secretary are insignificant. Who would not do such a job in this country for $50,000 or $60,000 a year. Of course, one would carry the bone of the master around. That is all he is doing. As I said, his actions are insignificant. But even the people sitting on the other side of the House, dumb as they are, must see the way in which this man has operated. 
It must be - 
I withdraw it. Let me just conclude by saying that the way in which this Prime Minister operates must be becoming apparent to all honourable members opposite. 
I do not wish to recount all the remarks that have been made by honourable members opposite. If the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  had incorporated in  Hansard  the document which he circulated to every Government supporter it would have saved us the time of listening to all their individual speeches. All the speeches from the Government benches have been exactly the same. Like the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  I find it rather amazing that 91 members of the Liberal and National Country Parties all agree on the same policy. In spite of the accusation that this is just a communist plot which was the theory put to us tonight by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  which he always does on a full moon - 
-I withdraw. It is impossible in the Australian community, judging by the professional surveys which are being taken in this country, for 91 people to agree on this subject. It is impossible for their wives to agree. The mining and export of uranium is the first political issue that has been surveyed in 20 years to which more women are opposed than men. On almost every other political issue surveyed in this country men voted differently to women by between 6 per cent and 10 per cent. More than SO per cent of the women in this country who have been surveyed are opposed to the mining and export of uranium. Their opposition speaks for itself. They are concerned for themselves and they are even more concerned for their children. 
I shall recount the history of their major concern. In the document given to honourable members opposite so that they could speak in this chamber little reference was made to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Apart from the honourable member for Mackellar who spoke about it for three seconds and said that it was an enormous problem, no other honourable member opposite mentioned the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The claim that safeguards in relation to the selling of uranium can be guaranteed once the uranium leaves this country is absolute nonsense. All honourable members opposite could have had an article made available to their offices two weeks ago if they had required it from the United States Information Office situated in the Press building in Canberra. The article showed how impossible it is for the policy of  President  Carter to be carried out. Within one week of  President  Carter's talking to some of the European political leaders about the need not to sell the fast breeder technology to countries other than those which already had it the Germans and the French said that they were going to proceed to sell the technology to those countries which could supply their uranium in order to maintain that supply. Within two weeks West Germany signed an agreement with Brazil. In the very near future Brazil will have the ability, with the aid of the West German technology, to build a nuclear weapon. 
Back in the early 1930s there was a flight of European scientists to the United States of America. That came about because Adolf Hitler had taken charge of Germany. Those scientists from Germany, France, Italy, the Scandinavian countries and the United Kingdom, together with scientists from Russia, had been working on nuclear energy in the early 1930s. They knew what it could do. When those scientists went to the United States they convinced the then President Roosevelt that it was possible that the German scientists who had stayed in Germany would be able to build the atom bomb. The atom bomb in the hands of Hitler before it was in the hands of the allies during the Second World War would have given the Germans an enormous advantage. Roosevelt gave the full steam ahead signal for the production of the atom bomb in the United States. There was no talk about safety, no talk about safeguards, no talk about care with the waste. They had to build the bomb before the German scientists could do it. It was done. It was carried out in the United States. 
When the first test was carried out in the United States it led one of the very famous Italian scientists to ask: 'What have we started?' It was then said that the Americans would never have a monopoly on it. There was a great debate in the United States as to whether the military or civilians ought to be in charge of atomic energy. The view of Congress prevailed, that the civilians should be in charge. The military said: 'We want to keep a complete monopoly on nuclear weapons because we are the only country that is going to have them.' The scientists said: 'You are mad. We were working with Russian scientists 10 years ago. They will build the bomb within a few short years of the end of World War II.' The Russians exploded the bomb in 1949 as predicted. It sent a scare through the Western world. The Western world, particularly the United States, went quite mad. This led to the persecution of thousands of people in the United States and ultimately the deaths of the Rosenbergs. Now what we are doing when we say that all these countries can have the fast breeder reactor is saying that the detente that existed between the United States and the Soviet Union, which detente has perhaps played a leading role in the world's living in peace, is now to be broken. All the skirmishes like the Korean war and all the Middle East conflicts in the not too distant future may well be fought with nuclear weapons. 
When the former Prime Minister of Israel was asked whether that country possessed nuclear weapons he said: 'All I can say is that we will not be the first to use them.' Israel, Egypt, Brazil, all the European countries, India, China, the Soviet Union, the United States of America, all the countries in eastern Europe if the Russians allow them to build the same sort of nuclear reactors, will have the ability to build nuclear weapons. This is what concerns me as a person who has listened to the debate going on in Australia over the past few years. It is no good alleging that it is a communist plot or that unthinkingly the Australian Labor Party has turned its back on speeches or statements which have been made by former Ministers or members of the Labor Party. We all acquire a little more knowledge with age. We all become a little more aware of the dangers. 
I ask honourable members to look seriously at the way in which people are judging this issue. Honourable members opposite say that it is just the Labor Party or a few long haired kids from the universities. But if they look at the people who are involving themselves in the discussion and if they look at the outcome of the polls and surveys taken in Australia they will see that a lot of people are interested and involved in this issue who have never been involved in politics before in their lives. They are going to fight against the export of our uranium because it will tie us in to a world in which there is a proliferation of nuclear weapons. If 40 countries have nuclear weapons there is 40 times the chance that war will break out with the use of nuclear weapons, and we will be playing a part in it. Honourable members opposite say that we are being greedy because we will not export our uranium to an energy hungry world. How much more greedy are they to say: 'Take the uranium away from here and blow yourselves up on the other side of the world if you like, but we are not doing it.' There has not yet been any government decision to start building nuclear reactors in Australia. Perhaps that will be the next step. But this is the sort of thing honourable members opposite are saying they want to do. 
Tonight the debate was elevated by the suggestion that we should perhaps be concerned about the Third World countries. This has not previously been an expression of concern from the Liberal and National Country Parties in this debate, but tonight they are tearing at the strings of our hearts by asking us to consider how desperately the Third World countries might need our uranium. I ask honourable members opposite to consider how desperately a lot of those countries with irresponsible governments do not need the technology to be able to build nuclear weapons. That is the crucial point of this debate. If the debate takes place in the streets, in the towns, in the cities of this country that will be the crucial point of what we put to the people. Honourable members opposite will be asking them to vote in support of the Government so that more countries in the world will have nuclear bombs. Perhaps some honourable members opposite ought to visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki and perhaps some of them ought to read more closely the concern that President Carter expresses about this issue. Why do honourable members think that he is intervening in the negotiations between countries such as Germany and Brazil? How often have we seen in Latin America or in the southern part of Africa violence associated with a change of government? Give a regime nuclear weapons and try to change it. Obviously that regime will use its nuclear weapons. It may be using them by being able to barter to buy the technology by selling its resource of uranium. Obviously South Africa will have the ability in the not too distant future to build nuclear weapons. This is the focal point of this debate. 
Honourable members opposite say that it is only a view. The polls say that almost 40 per cent of the Australian public are now opposed to it. We have not had the advantage of the hundreds of thousands of dollars spent by the uranium forum on television, in newspapers and on radio trying to brainwash the people of Australia into believing that there is some enormous advantage. We heard a crazy economic argument from the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who said that everybody at Chrysler Australia Ltd in South Australia will be all right and that tariffs will be higher because of the value of the selling of uranium. What a crazy economic argument to put to those people. Can one imagine telling some of the women in Australia who are opposed to this policy to drop their opposition to it because the Government is going to look after the workers at Chryslers and General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd? People are not taking a stand on the issue because of that factor; they are taking a stand on it because of what I have said. They are desperately concerned about the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
Would honourable members opposite stay there and put up their hands tonight knowing that the Arab states and Israel had nuclear weapons and that the next time that war breaks out in that part of the world they could well be used? Would honourable members opposite put up their hands and say that the South African regime or some Latin American states could have nuclear weapons? That really is the argument. It seems to me that a lot of honourable members opposite ought to understand why people are concerned about the matter. It is not just members of the Labor Party who are concerned. People have changed their minds over the last one, two, three or four years. The debate is going on around the world. The Labor Party does not agree with what the Soviet Union is doing in the proliferation of nuclear reactors throughout eastern Europe. We do not agree with the proliferation of nuclear reactors throughout western Europe. It was a conservative government that was elected in Sweden, and part of its platform was to stop the spread of nuclear energy development in that country. So the argument is a very broad argument and it has no political lines. There are people on both sides of the fence. A lot of people in the Labor Party believe it right to mine uranium. 
Many people believe it is right to mine uranium- many people with a lot more knowledge on the subject than Bob Hawke. But there are many people who support the Liberal and National Country Parties, who believe it to be terribly wrong to mine and export uranium, not that it is so wrong but that there is time to make a proper decision. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I speak very much as someone who has observed in a very simple fashion the way this debate has developed in Australia over the last three or four years. It seemed quite a simple matter to me a few years ago when someone said: 'You have the resource of uranium, mine it and export it'. I happened to be the organiser for the union at Radium Hill when uranium was being mined and exported from that centre. But I am telling honourable members that now in Australia many more people are thinking deeply about this question. It is not so simple as to say: 'Just mine it and export is and get rid of our responsibilities and overcome some of our economic problems'. We have an international responsibility and nothing will happen to the uranium if we leave it in the ground until safeguards are provided. 
We should understand the rush that has taken place from the early thirties until now. The first rush was to build the bomb; the second rush was to provide the energy. There has been no rush yet to provide the safeguards. By Australia taking this stand we can put more pressure on other countries, and more pressure on academics and scientists involved in the industry, to provide the proper safeguards for humanity. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Did the Government authorise the use of a VIP aircraft on Monday of this week to carry the Leader of the South Australian Liberal Party between Adelaide and Mount Gambier? 
Obviously when the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  woke this morning he thought that Brisbane Airport was important. 
-Undoubtedly it is important. When I read the papers this morning I felt that one of the most important and most scandalous features in any of those newspapers was the report of the visit of  Mr McKay  to the head- quarters of the Liberal Party of Australia to do a eai about donations to the Liberal Party for the next election if uranium should be an issue. There can be no doubt that in any election in the next quarter of a century uranium will be an issue. We have observed the way in which the Uranium Forum has used its money in the past month to convince people that the mining of uranium is in the best interests of this country. Leaving aside the argument about uranium, it is surprising that the newspapers could bare their souls in this manner- that they could carry a story today about what the Uranium Forum has already told the Liberal Party. Just offhand I would judge that if the Forum gave the same amount to the Liberal Party as it has already spent on advertisements throughout Australia probably the Liberal Party will be on the receiving end of a donation of $500,000. 
We have repeatedly raised this question of donations to political parties. We have put forward the case- we will continue to do so- to expose the scandal in which the Liberal and National Country parties are involved. They are receiving donations of this nature to buy their policies. There can be not doubt that yesterday was only the formal agreement reached after all the negotiations that have taken place during the 18 months in which this Government has been in power. If the uranium mining interests say: 'If uranium is an issue we will give you money', then probably similar undertakings have been made by many other companies which it is common knowledge give large sums of money to the Liberal and National Country Parties. Whilst many honourable members of this National Parliament know very little about it- those sitting opposite in the chamber tonight have had nothing to do with it- a couple of honourable members of this Parliament who represent the Liberal and National Country Parties indeed are involved in raising this massive amount of money. There is no ceiling to the amount of money that can be spent. There is no end to the amount of money which companies like the uranium companies could pour into the Liberal Party to buy the souls of its members. That is exactly what has happened. 
Honourable members opposite ought to look closely at this practice which has developed in Australia and take notice of the fact that in evidence given recently before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal it was shown that in national election campaigns in Australia we are now spending more money per head of population than is being spent in the United States of 
America on a presidential campaign. We are increasing the amounts being spent, whilst the United States Congress is trying to reduce the amounts, the ceilings or the levels that have been set in the United States. One of these days there will be a massive blow-up. There will be an expose of corruption such as this country has never seen because of deals which are being done by the Liberal and National Country Parties with the uranium forum, the oil companies and the mining companies to try to make sure that they hold their position of power, to make sure they are able to give greater exposure to their policies at the election campaigns, both State and Federal, throughout Australia. This sort of procedure can only have a certain life. It cannot go on for ever. Whilst the Liberal and National Country Parties receive the benefits of it at the moment, undoubtedly they will receive the blows from it when it is finally exposed. 

 Mr McKay from the uranium forum ought to take notice that there are people in this Parliament who are conscious of the reform that is taking place in the democracies throughout the world in elections and political campaigning. Such reforms will be invoked in Australia eventually because most people with common sense support them. The United Kingdom, France, West Germany, the United States, all the Scandinavian countries- every country in the world- is now adopting some procedures to put a limit on expenditure on political campaigns, and Australia will have to adopt the same procedure. Then all the scandal and corruption in which the Liberal Party is now involved will be completely exposed and it will have to carry the baby. 
Firstly, on behalf of the Opposition I say, without debating the pros and cons of the statement initially and the alterations which are put forward as a sign of what may happen to the Act, that I think this would have been a far better way of handling the matter rather than the statement which was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  some weeks ago which started a run of speculation as to the future of the Industries Assistance Commission. I say here and now- there can be no refuting this statement- that the IAC in its operations has not gone outside the charter which has been given to it by the Parliament. Many accusations are made about its operations and about its recommendations but on no occasion has anyone ever put forward the view that the Industries Assistance Commission had done anything other than comply with the charter given to it by the Parliament. That charter always, of course, is subject to alteration by the Parliament as are the guidelines. But the IAC has carried out what it considers to be the directions set down in the Act. 
At times of a rundown economy, such as we have now, there is always a move by people to perhaps become concerned about the impact of 
IAC reports on industries, specifically on employment. I know that the Prime Minister said in his statement that perhaps the IAC was dampening down investment. I think that perhaps the boot is on the other foot. People are becoming sensitive, and rightly so, about the impact of IAC reports on employment. But as the IAC has said, when talking about changes which are taking place in our economy, there is a certain tyranny in believing that we can live with the status quo. Changes will take place. It is a question of how we deal with them and of how we allocate our resources. 
I suspect that the largest of our manufacturing industries is subject to this sort of review because in spite of the IAC recommendations which were to lower the protection given to the auto industry in Australia- conservative and Labor governments have moved to give that industry greater protection both in the form of tariffs and quotas- we find today that that industry is in as much trouble as it has ever been over the last 20 years. It is working below 70 per cent of capacity. In some areas it is not even working at the breakeven point. So we can see that not always is this massive protection or the quota system the answer to the problems presented to us by manufacturing industry, nor is it the fact that we can lock into manufacturing industry, about which we are speaking, the size of the work force which now works in it. The drop from 28 per cent to 2 1 per cent over the last 15 or 20 years is likely to continue. 
The advent of the investment allowance has led to a great deal of investment in labour-saving devices. So just by virtue of decisions which are made outside the IAC which are instruments of government, such as those relating to education levels and so forth, one can see a change taking place. I compliment the IAC on the work it is doing on the structural adjustment program and in analysing the changes which are taking place in our industries and perhaps putting up some ideas as to what we can expect. On this side of the House we continue to be concerned about the type of unemployment we have in Australia. We have repeatedly attempted to have the Government set up a joint committee of the Parliament to look specifically at the makeup of our unemployment. Time and time again, we believe, the type of unemployment we have in Australia is submerged by the cliche that perhaps we have unemployment similar to that of the Depression when all the evidence shows that it is different and will need a different recipe to overcome the problem. 
I do not like the inference in the statement made by the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  on behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that the Minister will retain the right to give additional guidelines to the Industries Assistance Commission or, as he said in his statement, supplementary guidelines. Not too long ago we had a debate in the Parliament on the right of the discretionary powers of the Minister in the operations of the Trade Practices Act. The Government was then condemnatory about the way in which a Minister could, on some occasions, agree to certain mergers or take-overs. Here the suggestion is made that the Minister will be empowered to give supplementary guidelines to the Commission. That can only mean that the Government is not clear in its thinking about what it wants the IAC to do. It means that governments in future, until such time as that procedure is changed, will be subject to the most intense lobbying from both sides of industry as to what those guidelines ought to be. It means that the IAC, perhaps at every hearing, could have a different set of guidelines and there would be no overall objective look at what should be or may be happening to our industries. 
It is suggested that the Government will change the Act in the way set out in the statement. We will wait and see the legislation when it is introduced. Over the last 18 months our experience is that Government legislation does not necessarily follow statements made by the Government in the House. This would be an exception to the rule. The rule has been for the Government to make a statement and, some time later, we have received different legislation. But it seems to me to be in the best interests of the operation of both the Government and the IAC, and of industry generally, for those guidelines to be set. As I said previously, the IAC is not being charged with going outside its charter. It could be that on some occasions when it gives its view on what may happen to the work force, we need other operatives, perhaps from the Department of Social Security and from manpower sections of the Government, to look at those recommendations to see what can be done. 
Let us recall it is the Government which makes the decisions, not the IAC, and government decisions on industry in the future should come in a package. If the Government makes a decision which will have the effect of putting people out of work there ought to be some other government instrumentality which sees that those people are looked after. All too often in the past the IAC has carried the burden for the lack of government policies in manpower areas. That has not been the Commission's charge. That guideline could have been added to the charter. It has not been. All the statement is asking the IAC to do is to spell out in greater detail what it considers will happen. Let us recall that on so many occasions when the IAC has been ignored, such as in relation to recommendations which it has made on protection, and where the Government has opted for greater protection, in the long term that has not proved to be the answer. 
We are now receiving a call from many international bodies for freer trade to help the economies of the Western world get back on their feet. To tighten the hold on industry to try to stick rigidly to the status quo argues against the case 
PUt forward to us by these international bodies, f course, we have to be concerned with the livelihood of the people who work in these industries and who may be threatened by lower protection. But it is not just a matter of the makeup of the IAC recommendations, nor the Government acting in that one area. There should be a co-ordinated approach to the welfare of the working people in terms of jobs which may be lost as a result of lowering protection. There should be no escape clause as far as industries are concerned in the guidelines which are sent to the Commission. It will prove to be a very haphazard approach indeed if, on every occasion something is referred to the IAC, with that reference goes a new set of guidelines. That will not work and the Government is setting itself up for all sorts of charges as a result of the intense lobbying which is likely to go on. 
Manufacturing industry is facing a very difficult period, for a variety of reasons, not the least of which are the recommendations which may be made from time to time by the IAC. I believe that the Government has in many ways opted out of its real responsibilities to give us a co-ordinated approach to industry, manpower, security, location, migration and education- all the heads of policy that ought to be taken into account when one talks about the future life of our industries and the future security of the working people. We will have a great deal more to say on the subject when the legislation is introduced. 
One should not be carried away by the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister about the great future of the mining industry and the tens of thousands of people who will be employed. He sounds as though he is very much in favour of dismantling all Australian manufacturing industry.  His  great dream of everyone working in the mining industry seems to be at hand, although one can see from the official figures that the number of people who will work directly in the mining industry will be less than 2 per cent of our total work force. When he talks about those tens of thousands of people who can go to uranium mining in South Australia, he ought to recall that all parties, including his and the Liberal Party in the South Australian Parliament, voted against uranium mining in South Australia. It was not just Don Dunstan and the Labor Party, it was the Liberal Party and the Country Party as well. It is a fool's paradise and a gross misleading of die Australian public for anyone to believe that we could transfer thousands of people out of either the tertiary industries or the manufacturing industry into the mining industry, because the mining industry will not employ very many people. 
I think that the way in which the Government is handling this matter is very messy. It is part of the rhythm of this Government to blame somebody. It is the IAC's fault because there is no investment. It is the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's fault because wages rise. It is the unions' fault because something else happened. Time and time again the Prime Minister and other Ministers blame some authority or some body in Australia for the economic mess in which this country now finds itself. It is about time someone in the Government started to look at the Cabinet and at the decisions being made by this Government for the cause of our problems, because the main instrument of decision-making in this country is the Government. It is not the IAC, it is not the Arbitration Commission, it is not the Chambers of Manufactures; nor is it any other body. It is the Government of this country which is making these decisions. The messy way in which it has handled the matter of the Industries Assistance Commission is in complete accord with all the other decisions and criticisms it made of other authorities throughout this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Like Nelson's Column this Budget has crashed to the ground. There is total confusion throughout this country about the impact of this Budget and the Government has been doing its best to restrict debate on the Budget to non-broadcast days in order to redeem itself from what it may have done in the Budget. I want to reflect on two matters which the Government saw as being of prime importance in this second Fraser Government Budget. Firstly I refer to taxation, and secondly to what the Government has done or rather has not done to put young people back to work. In presenting his Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that this new taxation adjustment was a revolutionary new scheme for personal income tax. However, when the scheme came under scrutiny in the days that followed the delivery of the Budget, not only was it exposed by the Opposition in this Parliament but also by every other group interested in personal income tax. What it turns out to be is a system which assists those on the greatest income and tends along with other decisions of the Government to act against those people who happen to be on average weekly earnings and who are now paying the Medibank levy. What the Government has failed to do in its new scheme is consider the other imposts it has placed upon the Australian community in the form of the Medibank levy and the move towards world parity prices for crude oil. 
The average weekly earner will find that he is worse off under this new revolutionary scheme while the higher income earner will be far better off. I refer for support to none other than the Taxation Committee in New South Wales which, when delivering its analysis of the taxation system, showed that everybody earning between $6,000 and $9,000 will pay increased taxation next year. It may be said that a lot of people earn a great deal more than that, and so they do, but the vast majority of wage earners in this country earn between $6,000 and $9,000 which is around average weekly earnings while 64 per cent of the people receive less than average weekly earnings. This revolutionary scheme will marginally increase the rate of tax on those people. So much for the revolutionary scheme. The $8,000 to $9,000 a year income earners, whether they are with or without dependents, will be substantially worse off in their weekly pay packet than they were before this revolutionary scheme was introduced. 
The Government went to so much trouble through the voice of the Treasurer to tell us how much benefit it was going to rain on the wage and salary earner as a result of this new taxation system. But the system has been exposed for what it is and I do not wish to add my voice in objection to it by going through the details and figures which have been published. Suffice for me to say that it is a fraud on the average worker to have him believe that something great will happen to his wage packet next February when this revolutionary new taxation system comes into operation because it will not. He will take home less after 1 February next year than he takes home now. 
Let me take it one step further and consider the concept of taxation relief. If the figures that have been given by so many instrumentalities are correct the people who will gain most out of this taxation adjustment are those earning $15,000 a year and more. There are very few people in our community, a handful representing five per cent or 10 per cent perhaps, earning more than $15,000 a year. According to the Treasurer's figures a person on $ 10,000 will save $ 1 95 a year while a person on $15,000 will save $543 a year and, going further up the salary scale, a person on $25,000 will save $1,000 a year. Who in his right mind, considering all the problems that Australia is facing today, could justify a person on $25,000 a year saving through this new revolutionary taxation system $20 a week while 5.4 per cent of our work force or almost 400,000 people are out of work? Time and again Government spokesmen have stood in this Parliament and said that one man's pay increase is another man's job. That is not the Opposition's philosophy but it is the type of cliche that is used regularly by Government spokesmen. If it is true to say that a wage increase for one person in a job may cost another person the opportunity of finding a job, why does not the same theory apply to taxation relief? 
If a government is prepared to spend $ 1,000m on taxation relief which will go mainly to those on high incomes, why does it not save those financial resources and give them to the people who really need them? Why do we not index the unemployment benefit and make it equal to half average weekly earnings? Why do we not spend more on manpower training, relocation and retraining? Why do we not spend more on young people? I will have a lot more to say about the opportunities provided by this Government for young people. How can the Government justify the expenditure of this money on the highest income earners while we are facing such enormous economic problems? How can the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  justify a member of Parliament saving $20 a week in taxation, or the Treasurer saving $30 a week, or the Prime Minister himself saving $50 a week while we have these problems? It is not as though people on that range of income need this sort of assistance. 
The Treasurer said that this new scheme will give people more incentive to work and will give them more incentive to work overtime. People on those salaries do not get paid overtime, it is an annual salary. Is the Treasurer going to have greater incentive to work because he saves $30 a week? Is the life of a member of Parliament or of a person on a similar salary going to change dramatically as a result of this new scheme? Is their lifestyle or their attitude to employment going to change because they will save that amount of money as a result of this revolutionary tax adjustment which at the same time will place a penalty on a person receiving average weekly earnings? This is a government which believes in the great class distinction, which believes that it should spend its resources on the top echelon, on its supporters. It wants to forget about the person on average weekly earnings and about those who are unemployed. I would like to hear any member of this national Parliament tell us how a person on average weekly earnings with a wife and two or three dependants is living, how he is enjoying the luxuries which this country has to offer. He is the forgotten person. 
This Government is paying less and less attention to the massive problems we face in putting young people to work, in training them for the work that is available and in giving them the vocational guidance that is necessary. Countries in Western Europe are leaving us far behind in this regard. So much for the revolutionary new taxation system. So much for the taxation system which will do all things for all men in this country. The new revolutionary tax system as it is called is an absolute fraud because the vast majority of people will pay more and those who enjoy the privileges of a high income will receive more and more of the benefits which flow from the decisions of this Government. The Government ought to look closely at what it has done. Before 1 February next year it ought to divert those financial resources now being allocated in tax adjustment to areas where they are really needed. How dare the Federal Parliament of this country spend so much money by pouring it into the people already in jobs and on high incomes while we are facing a total of 500,000 unemployed, 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the work force. This includes young people who have left school and who have been searching for their first job for a year or more. They have had a year on unemployment benefit, walking around the countryside looking for jobs. 
So I say that this is a government of privilege, and that is the way in which this decision has been made. That is the only way in which the decision can be interpreted. I say something now about the unemployed youth in this country and what is happening throughout the rest of the world. The Budget Speech, like so many other important areas, pays scant attention to the massive problem of unemployment. The statements attached to the Budget Speech tell us that at best- I use the words in the Budget Speech- we can expect the same level of unem- ployment at the end of this financial year as we ave at the moment- 5.4 per cent of the work force. That is the sort of problem we are facing. While other countries with similar problems are moving and adapting to the situation with all sorts of structural adjustment programs, this country is being left further and further behind. This Government believes that one day some great miracle will occur and everybody will be put back to work. The Government forgets that we are facing new economic problems in the search for the recipe to overcome the unemployment problem. 
The Government is trying to condition us. It is saying that full employment is a myth. It existed for 20 or 30 years but no one in Australia should really expect us to get back to full employment because, as I say, this is a government of privilege which believes that the privileged can live a little better if there is a pool of unemployment and that perhaps it can use this pressure group of unemployed to keep those in work regimented. That is not the accepted philosophy of those on this side of the House. When the Government goes to the polls, whether it be at the end of this year, or in May or November of next year, we know now from the Budget that there will be massive unemployment and every honourable member on the Government side - 
-I shall deal with the National Country Party in a minute. The honourable member has been so quiet since his friend from Hume has been away and one would have expected better manners from him. Let us compare what honourable members are saying about cattle with what they are saying about people. In that way we can expose the fallacies of the policies of the Country Party. Throughout the advanced Western world 40 per cent of the unemployed are under 25 years of age; that is, seven million young people in the most developed regions of the Western world are looking for jobs. Australia is no exception. In many ways we are leading. Let us look at the most recent figures that have been published in various surveys or at figures given by the Australian Bureau of Statistics or the Commonwealth Employment Service. In the Melbourne  Age  quite recently we find that in the 15 to 19 years bracket there are 42,000 males looking for jobs and 45,000 females; in the 20 to 24 years bracket 33,000 males and 24,000 young women are looking for jobs. This is a major problem in this country which has been ignored by the Budget. 
My friend the honourable member from the Country Party has come in here to provoke me into telling him what is going on in the country. The Country Party delights the Parliament by talking about trees and animals. It is only since the Australian Labor Party has taken up the cudgels on behalf of country people and since the Australian Cattlemen's Union has been formed that this Government has taken any notice of the militancy which is growing in country areas about something being done because of what is happening. Let us look at what happens in the country and at the number of young people who are out of work in country districts. Why does not the Country Party raise these matters? In Albury 45 per cent of those unemployed are under 25 years of age; in Armidale it is 46 per cent; in Bathurst it is 39 per cent; in Bega 38 per cent; in Casino 32 per cent; in Cessnock 45 per cent; in Charlestown 52 per cent; in Coifs Harbour 33 per cent; in Cowra 42 per cent; in Dubbo 41 per cent; and so the percentage go on right through the country districts of New South Wales. We find that over 40 per cent and, in some cases, over 50 per cent of people who are unemployed are under 25 years of age. 
This Government has done absolutely nothing about the matter. It has said: 'We will spend $102m on the various programs which we have going. We hope that the additional money we are putting in from the Budget will put 15,000 people between the ages of 15 and 24 back to work'. But 145,000 people between the ages of 15 and 24 are looking for a job. This Government says: 'We have put in enough money for 15,000 people'. So the other 130,000 can continue to walk around the countryside and have their number added to by the massive number of school leavers who will hit the labour market later this year. The Country Party does not give a damn about the young people out of jobs in country areas, Because of this and other issues which are emerging in the countryside, there will be wholesale revolt at the next election, not only in the suburbs of the cities but also in country areas because those areas are being badly represented. Their voice is not being heard. Beef producers are concerned not only about their industry but also about their children and their opportunities. They are not sacrificing everything to send their children to school knowing that when they complete their studies they will be in the dole queues. It is not just the sons and daughters of Labor Party supporters who cannot find jobs. This situation cuts across all classes, all regions. It is about time the Government was cognisant of the long term, massive problem which is confronting this country. The Government ought to be condemned for the way in which it has ignored the problem in its Budget. 
Let us look at the metropolitan area. One can understand a conservative government ignoring the massive working class districts of the cities because it does not care about them and it does not represent them. As such the government does not relate to those areas; it does not care about them. Right throughout the cities one finds that if it is a Labor district the Government does not care about it. Let us look at the massive unemployment among young people in the metropolitan areas. In Leichhardt 575 young men and 546 young women are unemployed. Other figures are: Marrickville, 489 and 466; Liverpool, 1,299 and 1,281; Campsie, 660 and 572; Bondi, 455 and 532; Hurstville, 710 and 635; and Fairfield, 731 and 833. We can go through every major suburb in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth and we will find that the greatest political and social problem we have is almost totally ignored by this conservative government while so many governments overseasthe British, French, Italian, Scandinavian and American- are experimenting with a multiplicity of ideas such as early retirement, a shorter working week, and subsidised work for young people. All sorts of innovative schemes are being introduced throughout the Western world in an effort to overcome this problem. 
This Fraser Administration between 11 November 1975 and 13 December 1975 said: 'If you get rid of the Labor Government you will get rid of all the problems'. That was the Government's policy. That is why the Government was elected. Now there are 100,000 more unemployed than there were when  Mr Fraser  was elected on 13 December 1975. Over 50 per cent of the young people who leave school in the country districts in 1977 will not be able to find employment. So if the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  wants to make himself popular with his constituents I suggest that he go back to Griffith, to Leeton, to Balranald and to all those towns and tell the people in them that 50 per cent of their kids will not be able to find jobs. That is the result of the Fraser Government. 
The whole Budget has been a hoax. There has been massive confusion about whom it affects. All of a sudden we can see through it. We know exactly whom it affects. It means that average weekly earners will pay more tax. It means that employment opportunities for people leaving colleges and schools throughout Australia have been reduced to virtually nil. A lot of people who have been trained to do certain academic work will be doing labouring work because the promises made by this Government and the ambitions which they set themselves during the educational process cannot be met. It does not have any idea. It should be condemned for the way in which it has presented this Budget to the Australian people. The Budget will be the springboard for throwing this Government out of office. 
-by leave-We on this side of the House always support enthusiastically anything that is done by the Government in the field of research and development. Time and again in this Parliament we have had to be critical when the Government has seen fit to make across the board cuts in appropriations in this area. It has been our role to point out to the Government that, in terms of research and development and in terms of the future consolidation of many of our industries, the Government must play an important part in ensuring the viability of those industries. At the moment what we are doing in Australia is really only scratching the surface. We have derived a great deal of our technology from companies that have come into this country from overseas. To that extent, as the Jackson Committee pointed out, our industries have advanced a great deal as a result of the activities of those trans-national companies. None the less, overseas companies should not be allowed to set the ceiling on the research and development that may be done or to set the level of technology that may be invested in our industries. That is a decision that this Parliament and this country must make. 
Our commitment to research and development is a wholesale commitment because we realise the importance of it and its importance in relation to the ambitions of a lot of young people who are completing a very high standard of education in Australia. Avenues ought to be available for a lot of these people to work in this area. When compared with the moneys that are being spent by companies overseas on their research and development programs what we are doing here in Australia looks rather minute. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  made the point that some consultants were wrongly advising companies. Perhaps the Government should look at its own role in terms of advising those socalled consultants before they go out and give information. It is the sort of thing that has happened with other legislation, where the Government has made available experts to interpret legislation to the people concerned and thus made sure that when companies are seeking guidance on these matters they are given the correct information. 
I also draw the Minister's attention to a question on this very subject which was put on notice by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and to the answer he received from the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 15 March. The question related to the recommendation- twice- by the Industries Assistance Commission that the question of research and development ought to be referred to an inquiry conducted by the Industries Assistance Commission itself. Whilst the Minister replied positively to the questions that the IAC had indeed made such recommendations in its annual reports he merely said that the question of the reference was something for the Minister for Productivity to look at. That is now 6 months ago, so we ask the Minister these questions: What has happened in relation to the recommendations of the IAC? What is the intention of the Government? Does he not think that the IAC has a very important role to play in this area because much of the work it does borders on the necessity for greater detail in research and development in this country? Whilst pointing out the inadequacies of what the Government has done over the past two years, we on this side of the House will continue, as I have said, to support enthusiastically anything that is done in this area to assist industry to become more internationally competitive and to perhaps consolidate its role in the Australian economy. 
-! second the motion. It is one thing for the House to follow the idiosyncrasies of the honourable member for Mackellar; it is another thing for those idiosyncrasies to be given the full support of the Government and for a Cabinet meeting to break up. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
Here is another convention being broken. 
-I rise to oppose the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders because the forms of the House have not been followed. It is absolutely incredible that this Government, with so much business to conduct, can suspend the business to allow an erratic intrusion into that business by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth). 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier  ) put- 
-The views of the Opposition on this question and the views of the Labor Party throughout Australia are well known. We believe in very rapid reform of the laws regulating donations to political parties and candidates and the ceilings that should be placed on expenditure by political parties on all political campaigns throughout Australia but specifically to the area where we, as members of the national Parliament, are responsible, namely Federal elections. On 17 August this year  Senator Cavanagh,  speaking in the Senate, asked  Senator Withers,  the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources: 
Why does the Deputy Prime Minister now believe it is possible that the National Country Party received funds from the Central Intelligence Agency? 
The reply to that question was as follows: 
No political party can give a categorical denial that it has received funds from a particular source. In the interview referred to, I used the words 'it is possible' because it is impossible to say that it is impossible. 
That was the reply from the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is well known as a person who does a great deal of fund raising for his Party yet he goes on record in this Parliament as saying that he has no idea of the sources of the funds used by the National Country Party in elections in this country. 
In the last week a new element entered the funding of political parties in this country with the report, not yet denied, that the Uranium Forum spokesman,  Mr Mackay,  visited the headquarters of the Liberal Party and spoke to the Liberal Party director about the availability of funds from the Uranium Producers Forum to the Liberal Party at any future elections at which uranium is an issue.  President  Nixon was engaged in the Watergate cover-up; this Government is now involving itself m a uranium cover-up. Whilst the Government's spokesmen stand in this Parliament and outside and say that they have given very serious consideration to the question of uranium, it now comes to light that the basis of that consideration is the extent to which the Uranium Producers Forum is going to donate to the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party continually fights against any reform in this area. 
On a number of occasions, when we were in government and since we have been in opposition, we have introduced Bills into this House to bring about the reform required and place a ceiling on the expenditure, and finally asking that a joint committee be set up to investigate the funding of political parties and candidates, as has been done in most other advanced Western countries. In respect of every one of the points that we have put to this Parliament, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have said it is not necessary. 
In order to have an insight into what might be going on in Australia I want to take the Parliament through some of the lessons of other countries to see the corruption that has been practised. The public of this country are being denied knowledge of what is going on in Australia because of the refusal of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party to open up this matter of donations to political parties. The people of Australia are entitled to know who makes donations to political parties. They are entitled to know who makes donations to candidates. While these things remain in confidence, in secret, and no one is able to ascertain accurately who is making the donations, political parties and candidates are going to be continually accused of working for special interests. Here we have the classic example of the Uranium Producers Forum going to the Liberal Party. Is the decision of the Liberal and National Country parties on uranium based on the fact that a substantial financial donation will be made to their campaign funds? Are the Liberal and National Country parties ashamed or afraid to admit that they are to get funds from the Uranium Producers Forum to fight the next election? This allegation has not yet been denied. The Australian people are entitled to know. If the forecasts of the amount of money that will be made from uranium mining in this country are accurate then the size of the cheque which the Uranium Producers Forum could give to the Liberal and National Country parties is unlimited. It could underwrite their entire campaign and no one in 
Australia would know about it. We have seen since the 1975 election campaign the enormous escalation of spending in this area. So the Uranium Producers Forum coming to the party is of national interest to everybody, and it is a national scandal to those of us who say that there ought to be reform of these laws. 
Throughout the Western world, in Sweden, Germany, Great Britain and the United States of America, laws are being reformed in relation to the election of candidates to the various houses of parliament and in the case of the United States to the Congress. People are saying that a limit has to be put on the amount of money that can be spent in campaigns; a limit has to be placed on individual donations. Let us look at some of the things that have occurred, that could occur here and that perhaps have occurred here but about which we are unaware. Let us go through the Nixon episode in the United States which was one of the reasons for the Congress of the United States giving such special attention to the reform of these laws this year. In 1972 a number of scandals were exposed in relation to donations made to the Nixon Administration for its campaign. There was a new term used during that campaign which undoubtedly people in Australia could adopt, and that was the 'laundry of election donations'. American Airlines sent its money from a bank in the United States to the Lebanon, back to another bank in the United States and then on to the campaign committee for  President  Nixon. That was exposed, the company was prosecuted and fined. 
The dairy industry in the United States made a contribution of $2m to the Nixon campaign in 1972. A fortnight later Nixon increased the subsidy to the dairy industry, which meant that consumers and taxpayers had to pay an additional $300m to the dairy industry. Obviously Nixon had made his decision against the best advice from the United States Department of Agriculture in favour of a lobby which had made a $2m donation to his campaign funds. Many of the donations for the campaign came from the Philippines, and the same year  President  Nixon doubled the quota of sugar that was to flow from there to the United States. So decisions can be made for special interests where people are making political donations. How much of this Government's uranium decision is based on the fact that thousands and thousands of dollars will come from uranium companies into the Liberal and National Country parties coffers? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said: 'We made a decision- it is a deliberate courageous decision- that we should adopt world parity for crude oil'. We have seen figures produced from both sides of the House to indicate that EssoBHP will perhaps be advantaged to the extent of $10Om as a result of that decision. Does EssoBHP donate to the Liberal and National Country parties, and if it does how much does it donate? 
-The brainchild of the establishment says no. No one has told him anything since his dummy was taken away. The fact is that no one knows so we all are suspicious of it. I quite frankly believe it. If Esso-BHP is going to make $10Om out of the decision of the Government why does the Government not bring about the reform that is necessary in this country so that we know where all the donations are coming from and so that all the companies that are making donations to the Liberal and National Country Parties are exposed for all to see? But the Government will not do it because it is carrying on in exactly the same way as Nixon carried on, and that led to the Watergate affair. There was money from the Philippines, money from American Airlines and money from all over the world to consolidate the position of the then United States Administration. However, the government finally falls, the folly of the government is eventually exposed and reform is brought about as has happened in most other countries. 
Let us look at what happened in the United States and the number of companies that were prosecuted in 1973-74. Let us consider how they pleaded when they were exposed for the donations that they had made to the various political parties in that country so that we can understand simply why  President  Carter is moving so quickly in 1977 to bring about the necessary reform before the next presidential election. We should not forget that the last presidential election had very strict laws on expenditure and there have been investigations in the United States into the amount of donations made and the amount of money spent in the campaign. America was rocked, just as the Australians of the future will be rocked, to find household names, the names of all the major reputable companies, brought into the courts. They all pleaded guilty to having broken the laws of the United States in relation to political donations. In one way or another they all had tried to hide it and say: 'We did not do it'. But afterwards they pleaded guilty in the courts of America. 
American Airlines pleaded guilty on 17 October 1973. The American Ship Building company pleaded guilty in 1974. Ashland Petroleum 
Gabon Inc. pleaded guilty. Associated Milk Producers Inc. pleaded guilty. Braniff Airways pleaded guilty. The Carnation Company pleaded guilty. Diamond International Corporation pleaded guilty. Ray Dubrowin, the Vice  President  of the Greyhound Corporation, pleaded guilty. The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Company pleaded guilty. HMS Electric Corporation pleaded guilty. The LBC and W architecture firm pleaded guilty. National Bi-Products Inc. and the Northrop Corporation both pleaded guilty. I could go on for pages. This is the sort of thing that will occur here unless the companies wake up to themselves. I keep asking the question, and perhaps the Minister who is to reply in the debate can tell us: Why do the Liberal and National Country parties refuse to face up to what is happening in the rest of the world? Why do we not say that there will be a limit upon the amount of money spent by political parties? Is it because there are interest groups at work in this country? We all will be suspected of acting on behalf of interest groups until this information is out in the open. The only way in which the Labor, Liberal or National Country Parties are going to be elected on their merits is when everybody in Australia knows what money they are receiving and where it is coming from. 
If the Government parties accept the money which has been offered to them by the Uranium Producers Forum- I believe it has been offered to them, and what has been printed in the newspapers has not been denied- they will be guilty of acting in a sectional way. If they have accepted money from Esso-BHP again they are guilty of this act and so are the companies because they do not confer with their shareholders about where the money ought to go. Let us look at the make-up in the United States of the sectional interest donations because the pattern of donations in the United States and here differs only in size. It does not differ in respect of the type of sectional interests from where the money comes. In the 1976 elections the major interest group contributors and their contributions were as follows: American Medical profession, $ 1.79m; dairy committees, $ 1.36m; labour unions, $lm; maritime-related unions, $900,000; auto workers, $800,000; coal, oil and natural gas interests, $800,000; National Association of Realtors, $600,000; financial institutions, $500,000; and American dental associations, $400,000. 
If the Americans at last have adopted a system under which all donations have to be disclosed, where is the case for Australia continuing to put its head in the sand and saying: 'We are not going to do it'. Will someone on the other side of the House please tell us why the Government cannot be honest enough to disclose to the people of Australia whose money it is using to get back into office? We saw at the last election in 1975 millions of dollars being paid into the Liberal Party. There was so much money that the Party could not use it all on the campaign. Subsequently the Party has used it to buy buildings, land and such things. It could not use the money given to it in 1975. Where did the money which was given to the Liberal and National Country parties come from? On this occasion the situation is worse because in the national Parliament we are debating a resources tax. My colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  will explain that tax in a few minutes. Honourable members on the Government side will go to the mining and oil interests and say: 'We are not going to have a resources tax like the Australian Labor Party. If you are going to make political donations you ought to make them to us because we will save you millions of dollars'. That is what Government supporters are saying to the uranium producers to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso Exploration, to Mount Isa Mines Ltd and as they have said in the past to the Bank of New South Wales. All these accusations can be made because the Government refuses to adopt any reform in relation to these laws. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to touch on the events of yesterday and on the issue which was raised by this side of the House yesterday in the form of a matter of public importance. Before doing so I point out that we on this side of the House have said continually that the major issue in this country at the moment is the problem of people finding employment and that the Government's lack of attention to this matter has meant that more and more people are becoming unemployed. The future outlook for the school leavers at the end of 1 977 is very bleak indeed. In fact, in many regions of Australia more than 50 per cent of those who will leave the schools and colleges will not find employment during 1978. We would like the Parliament to spend a great deal more time talking about this matter. We would like the Government to act on the request, which we have made previously, that a special parliamentary committee be formed to look at this matter more specifically than the Parliament as a whole can do, so that we can come up with the answers to overcome this problem. Despite all the requests we have made for the Parliament to pay greater attention to this matter, the Government is reluctant to do so. Instead, the Government would like to talk about trifling matters. 
Yesterday I raised the question of donations to political parties and candidates. This is a matter with which I have been closely associated for more than 10 years. It is a matter which I have raised and spoken on in the Parliament on 20 or 30 occasions. I see it as a very important issue. In the course of the discussion on the matter of the alleged visit of the Uranium Producers Forum spokesman,  Mr Mackay,  to the Liberal Party headquarters, it was suggested by an honourable member on the Government side that he should be allowed to incorporate in  Hansard  a document of about SO pages which had not been shown to the Opposition. We members of Parliament have an enormous privilege in that anything we put into  Hansard  can be printed outside with impunity. That privilege caines with it some responsibility. Although the matter was initiated by only one honourable member, within a few hours the whole of the Government support had been put behind that honourable member and his attempt to have that document incorporated in  Hansard.  The document could have said anything. No member of the Government had read it. Yet the Government was prepared to have that document of 50 pages incorporated in  Hansard,  because it hoped that it would do some damage to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
That raises two matters: Firstly, it shows the desperation of this Government, which has nothing better to speak about. Secondly, in relation to the first point I made, we would like the Parliament to be talking about the issue of unemployment. Yesterday, the Government spent seven hours of parliamentary time trying to have that document, which no one had seen and which contained all sorts of allegations, incorporated in  Hansard.  I wish the Government would give us seven hours in which to discuss the problems of unemployment. I wish it would give us seven hours in which to talk about what will happen to all the school leavers. I wish honourable members opposite would give us seven hours in which to talk about political donations- which party is receiving what amounts and from what companies. This is an extremely important issue. I want to say a little more about it. The scurrilous way in which this Parliament was used yesterday by the Government and the activities of all the Ministers, from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  down, in an attempt to have this document incorporated in  Hansard  do not in any way detract from the point that we are making from this side of the House, namely, that there ought to be full disclosure of all the sources of donations to political parties. 
Yesterday when I raised the matter not one of the senior Ministers or the collectors for the Liberal Party or the National Country Party came into the chamber to respond. The Government put up two back benchers, who have nothing at all to do with the collection of money for their respective parties. They talked in general terms of how they raised $2 and  S  10 donations in thenelectorates and said that everything is honest. I have absolutely no reason to disbelieve them. I am not talking about the people within an electorate who give $2 or $4 or $10; I am talking about the major companies which could be giving $ 100,000 or, in the case of the Uranium Producers Forum, $500,000. 
It took  Mr Eggleton  a week to deny that he held any discussion with  Mr Mackay  about donations from the Uranium Producers Forum to the Liberal Party for the next election. Of course, the Uranium Producers Forum desperately wants the Liberal Party and the National Country Party to be returned to office because their policy is to mine uranium as quickly as possible with the minimum of debate.  Mr Eggleton  said: 'I did meet with  Mr Mackay  but we did not talk about funds'. This would have to be a strange coincidence. How many major spokesmen of industry go to see  Mr Eggleton  and do not talk about funds? Why would they go to see  Mr Eggleton?  A month ago statements on uranium were presented to this Parliament by six Ministers. Would honourable members not think that  Mr Mackay  would have sufficient sense to know that there would be no purpose in his seeing  Mr Eggleton,  who is not a spokesman for the Liberal Party or the National Country Party, who does not formulate policy for those parties but who is the director of the campaigns for the Liberal Party - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no point of order. 
-Mr Eggleton has said that they did not talk about funds. I want to know why on earth  Mr Mackay  would go to see  Mr Eggleton  if it was not to talk about funds. It is  Mr Eggleton  's job to conduct election campaigns; it is his job to raise the funds. The Prime Minister has said in this Parliament on more than one occasion: 'I have nothing to do with it'. Quite frankly, I do not believe that. He says that it is  Mr Eggleton  's job.  Mr Eggleton  is meeting with these people and obviously they are talking about funds. It is of no good  Mr Eggleton  saying that he is meeting with spokesmen from major companies but they are not talking about funds. 
This matter becomes increasingly important. Because of yesterday's events everybody in Australia is entitled to believe that the Uranium Producers Forum has promised money to the Liberal Party-that it is buying the Liberal Party's policies. We invite honourable members opposite to overcome this problem for the Liberal Party, the National Country Party and the Labor Party by supporting full disclosure of the source of any donations to a political party in this country. That is the only way in which to overcome the charges. Honourable members opposite know as well as I do that if we go to the polls in December, which at the moment appears to be the wish of the Prime Minister, each major party is going to need millions and not thousands of dollars. That cannot be raised in $2 donations. It is raised by massive donations. We and the people of Australia are entitled to know who is making those donations to the Liberal Party. Are its policies being framed on the basis of the money it is receiving from the major companies? 
The only way in which the Liberal Party can answer that charge is by opening up its books and letting everybody in Australia see where the money comes from- see whether the Baillieus are donating to the Liberal Party on behalf of their companies. That is the only way in which the Australian people will be able to reach any conclusion about the honesty of government in this country. These disclosures are made right throughout the world. We can overcome this problem simply. We can stop wasting the time of this Parliament if the Liberal Party will accede to the request of the Labor Party, which has been made for years, that everybody who makes a donation to a political party ought to have his name made public. 
Honourable members opposite yesterday said that the trade unions make donations. They do and the details are public. Every balance sheet of every trade union would show its political donations. But the companies hide theirs. This has been shown to be so in America, Germany and England. The only way in which the Liberal Party can answer the charge that  Mr Mackay  gave money to  Mr Eggleton  is to open up its books. Until such time as it does that we are going to continue to raise in this Parliament the fact that the Liberal-National Country parties' policy on uranium has been bought by a massive donation from the Uranium Producers Forum. 
-I do not think that there should be any confusion about a debate of this nature. Firstly, everybody on this side of the House believes in the right to strike. It is a very important ingredient in our way of life. Not only do I believe m it but during my working life I also practised it. It is a very serious decision for people to make up their minds to go on strike. From the way Government supporters speak, one would think that a person on strike receives more pay than he does when he is at work. In fact, a person going on strike makes a great sacrifice for himself and his family because he believes an injustice is being done to him and his fellow workers. It is a very important aspect that we in Australia believe in the right to strike. The Liberal and National Country parties in this Parliament are now bordering on a philosophy that would outlaw altogether the right to strike and take us back to the feudal or slave days when the basic rights of man were taken away from him. 
-Everybody should have the right to work, and the 400,000 people who are out of work are out of work because of the Government's policies. The trade union movement does not hire or fire; that is done by the government and by employers in the private sector. It is a very important judgment that a person makes when he decides to go on strike. Many of the people who formed the trade unions in this country were sent here, exiled from their country because they went on strike in their own country. The Labor movement in this country was founded on people who were sent here because they exercised a civil liberty in going on strike in then* own country. No one is going to deny the right of working people in this country to go on strike. 
Let us look at the way in which the Government is trying to exploit the situation. The honourable member for Chrysler makes only two speeches a year, and always about Chrysler Australia Ltd. Let me say this about Chrysler's decision last Thursday in relation to the State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria: There ought to be a thorough investigation of Chrysler's closing of its plant on Thursday, because it is well known that the car industry has 140,000 passenger cars in paddocks in this country. It suits the industry fine to close down so that it can sell some of the surplus stock it has in hand, which situation has been caused by some of the stupid decisions the industry made last year. So, the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  should not get up here and defend the decisions of Chrysler and of the person who has been sent out here in the last month or so to run the company because the Australian who was in charge supposedly was not good enough. There ought to be a thorough investigation of Chrysler's closing down of its plant last Thursday. It might just show that there was absolutely no need for the company to do so. The honourable member should not get up and defend Chrysler. 
The Government is hell bent on dividing the community. What the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said is absolutely true. 
This is not a terribly complex question; it is very simple. If the Government had not interfered with wage indexation and if the Government had adhered to its election policy - 
-I will get to that in a minute. If the Government had adhered to indexation, as it said it would do prior to December 1975, these disputes would not have arisen. They have arisen because the working people- the trade unionists- have decided not to let the Government lower their living standards. Why do honourable members opposite think unions are formed? Why do they think people who go to work in any establishment decide to join a union or an association? They do it to defend their standard of living. When a reactionary government such as the present Government decides to embark on a policy of lowering the living standards of those people, it has a fight on its hands. Not everybody who works for the SEC in the Latrobe Valley, not every seaman who works on boats around the coast of this country, receives the $30,000 a year that we receive. Honourable members opposite should try to keep a family on some of the wages that are being paid in the Latrobe Valley. They should investigate how people can live on a take home pay of $120 or 1 30 a week. That is what the fight is about. 
When the Government said that it would abide by the policy of wage indexation the trade union movement accepted it, but the Government's word was not worth a butt. In January 1976 the Government broke its word straight away, when it went into the national wage hearing and said that there should not be a 6.4 per cent increase but there should be a 3.2 per cent increase. In one year the living standards of all working people in this country were reduced by 7 per cent- and the Government wants to know why it has a fight on its hands. How pitiful it is. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  who raised this matter of public importance, has never been a member of a trade union. He does not have a clue what it is all about. He was a solicitor working for ICI Australia Ltd. Naturally his approach to industrial disputations is well known. It has been bred into his heart and soul. He talked about newspaper advertisements. I have here an advertisement which is a big lie. Honourable members opposite want to know why we say that the Government will not talk about the real issues in this country. They should have a look at this situations vacant advertisement and they should tell the true position to the kids in the gallery and the 100,000 of them who, when they leave school at the end of this year, will not find jobs. The advertisement shows vacancies for apprentices, process workers and sales girls. Does the honourable member for Kingston have in his electorate a Commonwealth Employment Service office that has all these vacancies? Of course he does not, and neither do any of the other members on the Government side. This is a $lm he. No CES office in Australia has those vacancies, and the Government ought to be condemned for trying to convince the people of Australia that these sorts of vacancies exist, because they do not. 
The Government will not break the back of the trade union movement by its daily exercise in abuse, by its use of the Parliament in attempting to divide the community. All it will do is to heighten the confrontation between the Labor movement and the Government because no one puts up any solution. If the Government came in here and said, as the honourable member for Higgins might have said, that the arbitration system is now finished and perhaps we should replace the arbitration system with collective bargaining, that might be a legitimate proposal to put forward. The Government might say: 'Let the unions with the most muscle go out and get what they can, but those workers who are not organised into trade unions or who are poorly organised perhaps will not do nearly as well'. Indexation, when it existed under the Whitlam Administration- the indexation that this Government promised to abide by- provided justice for all wage and salary earners. Only this Government can be blamed for destroying it. 
If honourable members opposite want to replace the arbitration system and the national wage hearings with collective bargaining, why do they not do it? They make all sorts of abuse about left wing unions. They would not know a union if they came across one. Today the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke about deregistering left wing unions. One of those terrible militants who will be brought before the court is Laurie Short, the Federal Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia. I know that honourable members opposite have never heard about him because in this area they are babes in the wood. The cub from Chrysler has never heard of Laurie Short, but he is one of the people whom the Government intends to take to court and whose union the Government intends to deregister. We have reached a new height in union abuse. We have gone from Carmichael, Halfpenny, Hawke and all the rest of them and now it is Laurie Short. Who will be next? 
-The Australian Broadcasting Commission employees, the insurance staff association and the Bank Officials Association- the Government will have a crack at them all. The fact is that members of the Government parties, whether they be from the back benches or the front bench, do not have a clue what they are talking about. The Government will not defeat the trade unions by daily abuse in the Parliament where they cannot reply. All it will do is lose the support of the community, as is being shown in every poll that is being taken throughout Australia. The honourable member for Kingston, who has highlighted his career by spending one term in this House, told us that the Dunstan policies are not working. Fifty-four per cent of the people in the Kingston electorate voted for Dunstan. Fifty-four per cent of the people will vote Labor at the next Federal election. Do honourable members know what the honourable member for Kingston is doing? He is securing his future with Chrysler. He intends to get a job as a research officer with Chrysler. I hope that his record at Chrysler will be a lot better than his record here, because it is really a burnt offering when he starts telling us how badly Chrysler is affected. 
Let me conclude on this point: When a person decides to go on strike he has thought about it very deeply; he is making a great sacrifice; he believes that an injustice is being done to him. The right to strike will be defended in this Parliament and in every other parliament by the Australian Labor Party. 
-The latest report of the Industries Assistance Commission and the decision of the Government have the general support of the Opposition. The car industry is a most complex industry. It has been the subject of a multiplicity of reports, government decisions and inquiries. The industry still faces many problems that it has faced since its inception and especially since it became such an important factor in manufacturing industry in Australia. It is important for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the massive investment in the industry in Australia and the confidence shown in the industry by all those who participate in the manufacture of cars in this country. It is also important because of the massive employment opportunities that it provides for our labour force. At a time when this Government has showered on Australia a situation in which  5Vi  per cent of the work force is unemployed, we should not be fiddling with those industries which provide jobs for Aus.tralian people. When we consider that we are talking about an industry that employs directly 44,000 employees we can see the seriousness of decisions which affect this massive industry. 
Although it was not indicated by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  last Thursday when he made his statement, in recent times the Industries Assistance Commission has come in for a great deal of criticism about the way in which it looks upon our industries and the way in which resources ought to be spread and more efficiently used. In the tie-up in the terms of reference of this inquiry the Government, of course, laid down that 80 per cent of the market for passenger cars in Australia should be left for local manufacture. In that way the hands of the Industries Assistance Commission were tied in relation to reports which had been brought down from 1965 onwards. None the less, the LAC has taken time out to point to the cost to the Aus.tralian consumer and to the Australian taxpayer of the massive protection which is given to the Australian automobile industry. I want to talk a Utile later about what I believe to be the problems in relation to international trade that this presents to us and the responsibilities that this thrusts upon the major manufacturers in this country which I do not believe they have lived up to in the past. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has been the vehicle with which this Government has been able to solve the problem. I think we ought to pay due regard to the LAC for the job it has done in trying to devise means by which 80 per cent of the local passenger vehicle industry can be left to Australian manufacturers while trying to accommodate the tens of importers who have set up distributorships throughout the country and who are trying to maintain a level of imports that would enable them to continue with cost efficiency those dealerships which were set up on the basis of past imports. 
The big problem for the industry for the foreseeable future, whether one is a local manufacturer or an importer, will be the market. When one compares the Australian market with the massive markets of the Japanese it is very easy to see that the Australian domestic market provides for the industry a never ending headache. When one looks at the Nissan or Toyota companies of Japan producing millions of vehicles a year and exporting 40 per cent or 50 per cent of the vehicles they make, and then look at the five manufacturers in Australia- we are going to have five manufacturers- who are trying to share a market of 450,000 vehicles, one can readily understand that the unit cost in Australia is going to be a lot more expensive for the consumer than in almost any other part of the world. The domestic market is not going to climb in the immediate future. There may be some steady growth in the domestic market but there will be no enormous growth pattern next year or perhaps in the next 10 years. So the problems we have faced over the past decade may intensify as a result of increasing from three manufacturers in Australia to five because that figure of 450,000 vehicles, which is the figure that the LAC worked upon, represents the new plan to the end of 1 977 and for 1978 and 1979. 
In respect of the latter recommendation of the LAC- that perhaps the Government ought to abolish the quota system at the end of 1979- seeing that the submissions to the LAC continually referred to the need for long term decision making as far as the industry is concerned, the Government of the day- this Government at the moment and one formed by our party in the not too distant future- is going to have to make decisions which will give greater lead-way in the manufacturers and importers involved so that they are able to make long term decisions. It is not in the interests of Australia and our development for us. to change our decisions in relation to this massive industry year by year. To do so not only offsets the investment projections of the various companies but also makes life very difficult for the thousands of people who are involved in employment in the industry. 
The motor car industry has been the subject of a number of reports and, contrary to this report, the LAC has recommended in previous reports an enormous lowering of the protection that is given to the industry but, as I say, its hands were tied. I want to refer to some of the things that the LAC said to try to highlight the difficulties with which this industry will be faced. It is not just the imports into this country which have been presenting difficulty. The IAC has referred also to buyer resistance because of the high price of vehicles in Australia, which is now building up and which also has been a great barrier to locally produced vehicles. Unless the industry is able to do something about that, and one cannot see it getting the economies of scale needed to enable it to do so, and one cannot see any breakdown of the wage indexation that has applied generally in Australia for the past two years, one would have to predict that that buyer resistance is going to be consolidated. The IAC has taken time out to refer to it and I think people following the industry and governments which may have to make decisions in relation to it ought to be cognisant of the fact that this sort of thing is likely to continue. 
In relation to imports, and the reasons that this report was called for, the attention of the Government was drawn to the fact that whilst the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had made statements to the effect that 80 per cent of the passenger vehicle industry should remain in Australian hands, in the early part of 1977 that had not been the case. In fact well over 20 per cent of new registrations had gone to imports. There were a number of reasons for this. The IAC pointed out those reasons on pages 9 and 10 of its report and I want to quote them. They were: 
The November 1976 devaluation, which led to a rush on imported vehicles and the consequent depletion of importers' stocks; the lining of quotas in December 1976, allowing importers to increase the relatively low levels of stocks held throughout the two-year period of quotas; and Volkswagen switched from assembling to importing vehicles and substantially increased its cbu imports in the first half of 1977. 
So there was a variety of reasons which the Government ought to have been able to monitor to ascertain why the 20 per cent quota was not being adhered to. One can see that if quotas are taken off the 20 per cent will become part of history and imports will take a much larger proportion of the Australian market. 
I also want to refer to some of the submissions of the people who went before the IAC. I know that a lot of the argument of those companies revolves around the fact that if they have a greater part of the market they will be able to be more efficient in their own operations and will be able to keep more people employed. One of the importing firms put before the IAC a copy of a study of the impact of imported vehicles on the economy of the United States and the American consumer. I want to make very quick reference to it. The IAC report states: 
One of the findings of the study was that the imported automobile industry generates at least as many American jobs as would exist if that industry were eliminated and its sales of new cars were replaced by an equal number of domestically produced cars. It also found that on balance the imported automobile industry probably provides a net increase in employment in the USA. 
It is a very important study and it has not been brought before this Parliament. It relates to one of the things that is ignored. In relation to the total manufacturing industry in Australia, as I said earlier, the direct employment opportunities total 44,000 but people involved in importing cars into Australia also employ 11,000 people. When the Government makes a decision to lift quotas it gives the green light to importers to set up dealerships and to employ more people and perhaps to make long term decisions which they believe they will be able to live up to. Putting quotas back on burns all those bridges and has all the companies involved rethinking their position in Australia. A study of the American market and the reasons put forward by Mazda in its statement to the IAC ought to be studied more by this Parliament because one can predict with all the certainty in the world that this will not be the last discussion on the automobile industry in our lifetime in Parliament. It will not be very long before we have this matter before us again. There are also a number of reasons given to the IAC that ought to be taken into account in relation to the car industry. I want to refer very briefly to what the IAC said about the high cost of the industry to the Australian consumers. It said: 
The high cost nature of the Australian market for passenger vehicles is confirmed by details of prices of similar vehicles in other major vehicle markets. While varying design rules, import duties, sales tax rates, freight costs, dealer margins, et cetera, prevent the precise calculation of price differences, the evidence indicated that similar vehicles sold at retail prices of up to SO per cent below the price in Australia. 
The Commission noted in its 1976 report that investment decisions were being made which would increase the cost disadvantages of local producers against imports. Although GMH submitted that developments undertaken in the past 12 months, including the supply of components to other manufacturers, will result in lower costs and an improvement in its competitive position, other evidence indicated that the costs of some local manufacturers will increase as they are required to increase local content in accordance with the provisions of the plan. 
Time does not allow a completely detailed review of the Industries Assistance Commission report to the Parliament which I think is necessary. I make some reference to the important submission of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia because I believe that is the major union of the industry. Over the past few months it has been holding a series of seminars on the industry and making known its attitude to the industry. Quite recently the general secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation,  Mr Townsend,  and its South Australian research officer,  Mr Len  Hatch, addressed a meeting at which they put forward concrete and constructive proposals about the back-up structural adjustment programs which will be needed to give the employees in the industry the confidence required. 
In reference to what I said earlier about the responsibilities of the industry, I say this: It seems to me that the industry, with all the protection that is given to it, has some responsibility to give the people working in it the security to which they are entitled. Governments of the day have always had to carry the can for the automotive industry which employs thousands of people during economic boom periods but lays them off with a week's notice when any type of economic recession comes on the scene. It seems to me that the American system under which people must be given three months to six months notice before they are laid off from the industry because of redundancy is the sort of plan which ought to be looked at in this country. 
The Vehicle Builders Employees Federation in its submission to the Industries Assistance Commission drew attention to industrial disputes which take place in the motor industry in Australia when compared with most other advanced countries. The union says that the industry ought to have a great deal more industrial democracy and that little work is being done to improve the working environment. There can be no doubt that when stood alongside the industry throughout the rest of the Western world, the Australian industry has a poor record. This industry is given a great deal more protection than any of the other industries with which it can be compared. I think it has a direct responsibility to its employees which it has not live-d up to in the past. If it wants to have protection given to it by the various governments in Australia then it should live up to its responsibility. 
The last matter I mention relates to our trading position. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  referred to the difficulties he has had with respect to our relations with Japan because of sugar and beef.  (Extension of lime granted).  In the re-arrangement of the imports which are taking place in regard to accommodating the two major manufacturers here, namely, Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd and General MotorsHolden's Ltd, by giving them a quota and by acknowledging the reversal of Volkswagen Australia Pry Ltd from an assembler to an importer, the two firms which have suffered most are Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pry Ltd and Toyota Motor Co. Ltd. This means that millions of dollars of their exports to Australia W111 be affected. Obviously they will think in terms of their national interest. According to -the submissions which were put to the Industries Assistance Commission by representatives of those two firms, it was their understanding that in coming into the plan their exports to Australia would not be affected. Now they have been affected very drastically. There has been a huge drop in their quota for 1978. Obviously the  Deputy  Prime Minister will have to justify this situation on future trips to Japan. 
-In the couple of minutes that remain I shall sum up another parliamentary week. One can only say from this side of the House that it has again been a tragic week. The people who were unemployed are still unemployed. Nothing has been done in this Parliament by this Government to solve the massive problems being shouldered by the people throughout the cities and rural areas of this country. We have seen the bluster of this Government and the Victorian Government in trying to inflame the industrial dispute in the Latrobe Valley, and we have witnessed its settlement by the common sense of the trade union leadership nationally. All the abuse that has been hurled at Bob Hawke in the last few months has proved futile. He has still proved to be the most skilful industrial negotiator in Australia. He was able to bring about a settlement in an arena in which he had to put up with all the incompetence, infantile politics and industrial observations of this Government. 
Towards the end of 1977 the young people in the electorates of St George, Denison and Bradfield still do not have jobs. The people who has been stood down as a result of the dispute in Victoria do not know whether they will be paid unemployment benefit. This Government is falling to pieces. More and more supporters of the Government are resigning to sit on the cross benches. Rumours are flying around. There is speculation about an election, with all the damage that that is doing. What do we have in this chamber? We have the juvenile presentation of what they consider to be comic politics by the people who are serving their first term in the Parliament. They are not concerned at all with the massive problems confronting the Australian community. That is the reason there will be a very rapid change of government in this country. The Government parties in Australia at the moment are not concerned with the major economic problems with which this country is confronted. 
In spite of the National Country Party deciding to send its leader to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to tell him to announce that there will be no early election, the Prime Minister continues to act like some sort of puppeteer in that he considers it a good thing for Australia to continue in this area of speculation about a future national election. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to newspaper reports of further allegations regarding massive donations to the Liberal Party from oil companies, uranium mining companies and land agents. In view of these allegations, will the Prime Minister assure the House that prior to the holding of the election in December the necessary laws will be altered so that donations to all political parties - 
-The discussion on the estimates for these departments takes on a new dimension in view of the speculation which exists throughout the national capital of an early election, because it would seem that in making our comments on the estimates and the running of the departments it is far more important on this occasion, seeing that the holding of an election is almost certain, that members of the Public Service are cognisant of the comments of members of the Opposition because it is highly likely that we will be their Ministers in a few weeks' time. We do not want to go to the trouble of telling them to read the documents about implementing Australian Labor Party policy when that occasion arises. 
There has always been a spectacle of some illusion as far as business in this country is concerned. The Liberal and National Country Parties have always put forward the view that they are the only ones that can represent business, that they are the only ones that can legislate to assist business and that they are the only ones, when they are in government, that can perhaps provide the confidence that is required by business to be successful and to be profitable. For almost two years we have seen that theory smashed because we have seen not only thousands of small businesses go out of existence altogether but also a decline by some of our major manufacturers and a lot of them going overseas. The theory that the Liberal-Country Party put forward during the campaign in December 1975 has been smashed. The ideas that have been put forward by members on this side of the House now present themselves not only as an alternative but also as a much better way in which the relationship between government and business ought to be conducted in this country. 
I suspect that one of the things that ought to be said in relation to the estimates of these departments relates to the decision during the year to close the shipbuilding industry. There was quite a considerable estimate in previous years for the industry, but it was this year that the decision was made to close down almost completely that industry. It is one of the most noticeable features of the estimates. One should reiterate in relation to the mixture of departments which are under discussion the view of the Labor Party in relation to the makeup of them. Firstly it has been proved to be absolutely ridiculous to have created a further ministry of Productivity. The matters that are dealt with by the Minister for Productivity are of course extremely important, but one can see how ridiculous the makeup of the departments is when a Department of Productivity is established and the Department of Consumer Affairs is put in with Business so that the importance of it is completely submerged. The Labor Party obviously would put Productivity back with Industry, where it belongs. There is no need to add to the bureaucracy in Australia by this very irrational decision to have a separate department. The same thing applies, as my colleagues said this afternoon, with the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. Those departments are unnecessary and should be put back into the one department. 
Consumer Affairs, which is such a very important subject to the Australian electorate, would be brought out of the doom in which it has been placed in business and would be given a far greater priority by the Labor Party. It seems to be ignored by this Government that consumer bureaus throughout Australia dealt with almost 300,000 complaints and inquiries during the last financial year. Obviously it is a matter which is growing in importance in Australia. We would see that that importance was reflected in the way in which the bureaucracy was made up. Let me say in relation to Consumer Affairs that a future Labor government would have not only a Minister for Consumer Affairs but also a very comprehensive policy in relation to it. That policy was adopted at our Perth conference. People interested in the various attitudes of the Government and the Labor Party ought to read that, particularly the public servants, so they would know that we would be giving a greater priority to this very important subject. 
The overall increase in expenditure for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is approximately 5 per cent in the 1 977-78 Budget. The Trade Practices Commission will receive the impact of the full inflationary effects since its funding is virtually constant. The Prices Justification Tribunal will receive an impact even greater than just the inflationary impact since its finances are marginally reduced. The Industries Assistance Commission will offset a little under half of the inflationary impact through a four per cent increase in funding. An analysis of the Trade Practices Commission salaries reveals the squeezing of this agency by reducing staff levels from 213 to 204. Travelling expenses have been decreased by four per cent, when the Government has increased the need for travelling by amending the Act to allow for authorisation conferences at the request of applicants. Legal expenses are very small compared with the rapidly developing litigation role of the Commission. Enforcement of the Act has been restricted to flagrant breaches only. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal staff is estimated to decline from 1 19 to 111. The legal expenses connected with public hearings are forecast to decline by a further 52 per cent in 1977-78. Again in the comments that I make or the emphasis that I place on the decline in the expenditure made available to these agencies, the deep rooted philosophy of this Government in trying not to interfere with business, in the way in which the Trade Practices Commission and the prices justification Tribunal were set up to do, can be seen. The public hearings, which have enormous impact in regulating proper conduct within the business world, have again been slashed. 
The Department of Industry and Commerce has forecast an increase in staff from 373 to 403 during 1977-78 and a slight increase in expenditure. The staff increase appears to be spread across each division. One could reasonably ask: What do these highly paid people do? Apart from the production of some small publications on industry trends and the policy administration of grants associated with structural adjustment and industrial research, this Department's output appears to be related to the development of policy advice to the Minister and the administration of the shipping division which arranges for the allocation of shipbuilding subsidies. It will not have much to do in relation to that area any more. Compare its staffing level with the staffing of the Industries Assistance Commission of 472. Comparing the output of the Commission with the output of the Department gives one the impression that perhaps the IAC is far more maligned than it ought to be. 
The other comment I make in relation to the Department of Industry and Commerceperhaps the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  could take some note of this- is that it appears that the Department intends to establish its own library in the same building in which the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs also has a library. No doubt the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, which is about to transfer to the same building, will also have its own library. There seems to be some great waste in each of these departments having these sorts of facilities in the same building. The budget for the Bureau of Industry Economics appears pitifully small. The Bureau will consist of only nine people during 1977-78; meanwhile the 
Government proposes to spend $40,000 on consultants during 1977-78 working on projects which could well be done by the Bureau. 
I mentioned the Department of Productivity earlier in my remarks but I will refer to it again now that the Minister for Productivity is at the table. We do not agree with the separation of the Ministry of Productivity from the Ministry dealing with industry. These two activities are not incompatible. We think that the setting up of the Department of Productivity represents a futile extension of the bureaucracy. We do not denigrate in any way the work which has been passed over to the new Department of Productivity. It covers extremely important areas and we will be giving a great deal of attention to them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Customs Tariff Proposals moved by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  are extraordinary. Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the changes that are to take place, I have to point out how ridiculous was the decision made in the first place. One can only assume that those who made the decision in the first place were perhaps subjected to an overdose of the commodities under discussion. Of course, the brandy industry has to be taken completely separately from the problems arising in the whisky industry. We would support that because of the massive problems of the wine grape industry in Australia. But it is extraordinary that a decision of the Government on whisky which put up the price 7c a nip can be changed so quickly. One can only suggest and conclude that the Melbourne Club, the Adelaide Club and the various other clubs where the Ministers and their supporters meet must have a massive influence in how rapid the Government can make or unmake a decision when they are affected. 
I just wish that some of the greater problems that affect the Australian economy could be dealt with as quickly . as was the decision on whisky. I just wish that the Government would look a little more seriously at the massive unemployment in Australia. It is a far more important subject than the subject of how much is to be paid for imported whisky. As I say, one can only conclude from the way in which the Government has dealt with this matter that the voice of government supporters around the various empires in Australia must have hit home when the Government has changed its decision so rapidly. I just wish that the Government and the bureaucracy would move as quickly on the far more important subjects which affect the everyday lives of the Australian people. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-This morning I raised a question which I will continue to raise in this Parliament until some reform is brought about in this country. I refer, of course, to donations to political parties. As members of the national Parliament all of us should feel indicted by the allegations that vast sums of money have been paid to political parties to buy favours. We are one of the few remaining Western democracies in which some reform has not been brought about in this area. Not only has no reform been brought about but also this Government continually ignores the need for reform in this vitally important area to the institution of Parliament. In days past it may have been all right to allow the system of donations to go by, but we are now talking in terms of million dollar campaigns. Every honourable member in this House knows that both major political parties will be budgeting for $lm or more for the December elections. 
We are talking about vast sums of money and the right of some people to make significant donations in order to buy favours. When an allegation is made against any parliamentarian in any Parliament in Australia all of us receive some of the blame because the public immediately believes that all political parties are in some way receiving moneys so that when in government they will pass legislation or make decisions which will be in the financial interests of those people. 
People throughout the world are starting to clean up this area. They are placing politicians above suspicion. Political donors must have their names registered and those names must be available to the public. In the United States of America a ceiling was put on the amount that presidential candidates could spend at the election last year. All round the world things are moving in the area of donations to political parties and Australia will have to move too. The public might not be able to distinguish between allegations made against politicians in the variousState parliaments of Victoria, Western Australia, Tasmania or somewhere else and the politicians who come to Canberra to serve in the national Parliament. The public will be led to believe that it is par for the course that this sort of thing operates everywhere. 
Why do we hide our heads in the sand and refuse to acknowledge the moves that have been made in all the other countries? For instance, in West Germany at the moment the treasurers of the various political parties meet with the auditors of the West German Government every month. Every month they receive their allocations of money for administration and for campaigning out of the state purse, and the government is there to make the allocations and to see how the money is spent. One would hardly call West Germany any smaller or less significant a democracy than Australia. In Sweden money is being paid out of the public purse to the various political parties based on the percentage vote they received at the two previous elections, in order to put them above suspicion. 
-The smell of the National Country Party in regard to political donations is so immense that the Country Party drags us all down. We have to do something about it. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a question about party donations this morning.  Mr Hamer  now wishes that legislation to disclose political donations had been passed a few years ago. He would be in a lot less trouble today if legislation such as that which I proposed for the national Parliament had been introduced in Victoria. I will prove to be right on this subject. Reform in this matter will be brought in in Australia. It is very important. Honourable members opposite do not see it as significant because they hold a privileged position with raising money, but they will find themselves in exactly the same position as the Victorian Premier is in if they do not bring about reform on political donations. 
-Bob Hawke and the industrial movement certainly have a lot to put up with. We have some very junior back benchers entering into what is now a very serious dispute in Victoria. Bob Hawke, when he returned to work last Monday week, was the vehicle by which a settlement was reached until the Full Bench gave its decision this week. Again, Bob Hawke, with the calling of the meeting today of the unions affiliated with theAustralian Council of Trade Unions and the shop stewards, has been the vehicle by which there will be another inquiry into a work value case in regard to the Latrobe Valley. This Government is terrified that Bob Hawke will settle the dispute. 
We are still living in this Disneyland of politics where everything now is being done to suit the election that will be called in the first or second week of December. What the Liberal Party requires most of all is a very serious industrial dispute in Australia in order to bolster its political hopes. It gives no thought at all- we have not heard one word from this Government- to the 400,000 people who are unemployed. We have not heard one word about the people who were refused unemployment benefits after being stood down as a result of this dispute. We have not heard one word from the Government about what these people are putting up with. Rather, we hear further provocation of Bob Hawke, nationally the most popular figure in the country by any poll taken by anyone and published by any journal. Bob Hawke has the full backing of the Australian people in trying to negotiate and settle these industrial disputes. 
We have these political peasants sitting on the Government back benches trying to irritate and provoke the industrial movement into perhaps prolonging an industrial dispute. One thing people involved in the industrial movement do not do, because they are the people putting up with the hardships, is prolong industrial disputes. They have a dispute because they want to achieve some financial gain or better conditions under which to work. They do not go on strike for nine or ten weeks as some useless exercise. Their bank balances are not so fat that they will carry them through that period. The people in the Latrobe Valley obviously feel that there is grave economic injustice concerning the wages which they receive. This Government, by provoking those workers further and keeping them out on strike for a longer period, is ignoring the enormous impact on industry throughout Australia. 
It may suit the Government to go to the polls in the first or second week in December, a year before an election is due. The ironic feature of the way in which back benchers are so slavishly following the Government is that at least 25 or 30 of them will never come back. They are putting their hands up to support a Prime Minister who is hell bent on seeing that a number of them never return to the Parliament. There will be no more Wentworths, Chipps, Ellicotts and Goodlucks in the next Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  not only wants the industrial dispute lengthened but also wants to tame what is already to us on this side of the House an extremely tame back bench. 
We continue to live with the political decisions associated with an early election. One can expect that in the next two weeks decisions will be made which conveniently will suit the election and will show a sense of propriety about the unemployed people. I would not be surprised if the Government takes a decision to subsidise people who will be employed by local government. I would not be surprised if the Government decides that people, at their option, can retire at 64 years of age. I ask honourable members to follow those predictions in the next couple of weeks. Rational economic decisions are not being made. Every political decision being made in Australia at the moment is aimed at returning the present Prime Minister as Prime Minister and leading a number of back benchers back to their old professions in their old districts. Tonight we have had a further illustration of the infantile position politics has reached when the most junior of the back benchers gets up to tell Australia how bad Bob Hawke is. It is a futile exercise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-When I saw the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  sitting at the table at the commencement of this debate, I hoped that he would speak, because no Minister has been as irresponsible and no Minister has abdicated his responsibilities as much as that Minister. It now behoves us to listen to every other Minister in the Cabinet making statements on industrial relations that are bringing about a major confrontation between this Government and the trade union movement in defiance of what this Government said in December 1975 that it would do. I think that the conduct of this Government and the promises it has made have to be seen in relation to the way in which it conducted itself during the period of the Labor Government. It is a fact that the Labor Government raised the hopes and aspirations of the Australian people to new heights during the period 1972 to 1975. All of a sudden many thousands of people throughout this country were involved in politics, decision making and understanding what Canberra perhaps had to offer. 
It was only Australia 's suffering from what was the worst recession to go through the Western economies since the Depression that frustrated the Labor Government from bringing into effect all the things that it said prior to the 1972 elections it would do. The then Opposition- the present Government- continually harangued the Government as if the economic recession between 1972 and 1975 were merely within the borders of Australia as if the Labor Government were responsible for all the problems within the economy. It completely ignored what was happening throughout the rest of the world. It was on that note, after the action of the GovernorGeneral on 11 November 1975, that we went into the elections that brought about this great spate of policies that  Mr Fraser  said were to be implemented by him in government during the current term of office. What a peculiar government it is. Firstly, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has so accurately pointed out, it just cannot be believed. What an absolute circus we are operating in now. Seven of the most senior Ministers of this Government were photographed last weekend walking around a paddock with a bull talking about matters of great national consequence. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when questioned again today about whether the Australian people will have to go to the polls soon, refused to give an answer. Apparently the bull at 'Nareen' knows more than the Australian people are entitled to know. This is the attitude and the level of politiCS that exist under this Government. 
It is no news to anybody that the Fraser Administration could treat so lightly the promises it made leading up to the election in 1975. It could be no surprise to anyone that it would treat industrial relations as the springboard in trying to be returned to office at the election which is to be held in Australia on 10 December this year. That is the way this Government treats politics. It seeks power, not to give leadership to the Australian community, not to raise the level of the community or its aspirations and horizons in Uving standards but merely to put forward a series of promises in the hope that the majority of people will believe them. Let us look at  Mr Fraser's  policy speech so eloquently presented in December 1975. He said: 
There will be an end to Government extravagances and excesses. 
That is the first promise that this Government made to the people of Australia in December 1975. We have heard time and time again in this Parliament, following stories which have been broken in the newspapers, about some of the extravagances of this Government- the extensions to the Lodge because it was not big enough for the present Prime Minister, the special motor car that had to be bought for $16,000 in Melbourne because his legs were too long and the $9,000 that was spent on the new crockery set at the Lodge because the old crockery set was not good enough for the new Prime Minister. It was said that we would not have a tourist as Prime Minister. This Prime Minister has been overseas on more occasions in his first two years of office than has any previous Prime Minister. 
So much for the first lot of promises. He built this image during the latter part of 1974 and early 1975 after he had so ruthlessly got rid of the present  Speaker, Mr Snedden,  who was then Leader of the Liberal Party.  His  whole political career was built around getting people to believe things that were never going to happen or getting rid of people who stood in his way and having us live in this absolute circus of politics. Let us see what he had to say further on. In view of what the Prime Minister said, I should like to invite the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to get up and speak in this debate. The Prime Minister, on page 2 of his policy speech, gave great emphasis to industrial relations. He said: 
We will work positively in co-operation with trade unionists. 
That is an explicit promise to the trade unionists of this country about the way in which the Government would work. Only six days ago this Government was talking about putting troops into the Latrobe Valley. That is how it interprets working in co-operation with trade unionists. There has been absolutely no desire, not only on the part of the Government but on the part of any member of the Government, to rationalise relationships with the trade unions. With all the huff and puff that has gone on in this Parliament and the Victorian Parliament the dispute in the Latrobe Valley has been settled by negotiation led by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in defiance of the threats that have come out of the parliaments. This Government is using the Parliament to try to exploit the disputes that arise between employers and employees within the country. 
There is no desire on behalf of this Government to co-operate with trade unionists. As far as this Government is concerned, trade unionists are second class citizens and that is the way in which the Government is going to continue to treat them. Yesterday, one of the largest employer groups-the Metal Trades Industry Association- met in Canberra. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations was not invited to make a speech but the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)-  the Minister for Transport, mind you- went along and made a speech for 40 minutes about industrial relations, how bad the unions are and who is governing the country. Here is a government with the biggest majority that any government has had since Federation and its Ministers are walking around making speeches to large seminars and forums and asking who is governing the country. I do not know whether anybody on that side of the House can count, but in this House there are 91 LiberalNational Country Party members and 36 Labor Party members. Yet the Government asks who is governing the country. This is another attempt to exploit the differences between government and employers and government and employees. It is a useless exercise; it brings about a confrontation in which there are no winners. We ought to be trying to get people to negotiate sensibly in the manner in which Bob Hawke has indicated over the last fortnight. 
In the same 1975 policy speech in which  Mr Fraser  spoke about co-operating with the trade unionists, he said: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all those who want to work. 
The honourable member for Mitchell emphasised the point. He said: 'We are going to put people to work'. Let me just remind honourable members opposite that there are now 100,000 people more registered as out of work in Australia than at the time of the defeat of the Labor Administration in 1975. In addition, many of the females in the work force have not registered as unemployed. Of the young people leaving schools and colleges in 1 977, only 50 per cent can expect to get work in their first six months after leaving that school or college. That was the sort of promise made in December 1975 but this is the way in which this Government is trying to fulfil its promises. It ignores completely the need to have proper industrial relations in this country and it exploits people who are looking for jobs in the vain hope that perhaps there will be some minor decrease in the rate of inflation in Australia. 
There are two forgotten areas, two great deserts in this Government's thinking- industrial relations and work for those who require it. So, during the forthcoming election' campaign, let honourable members opposite go out and make the same promise, but this time let them be decent enough to tell those who are searching for work that it is not part of the Government's policies for 1977-78 to put people back to work. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in his Budget Speech this year, said that he expected unemployment 12 months hence to be just as high as it was when the Budget was presented. No emphasis has been placed by this Government on putting people back to work. No emphasis or urgency is given to the problem of industrial relations. Those things will become major issues in the campaign which is going to be waged between now and 10 December. We have to get this circus out of Australian politics and the best way to do that is to return a Labor Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise tonight to pay tribute to a person whose requiem mass a number of members of this House will attend tomorrow, Cardinal  Sir Norman  Gilroy, who was a very significant figure in this country. He was a significant figure not only because he was the first Australian cardinal. He was a significant figure to those on this side of the House because of the common sense he showed in his political decision-making in the mid-1950s. I point out to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  that it was the decision taken by this great man that perhaps has left the Australian Labor movement in the form in which it is. Cardinal  Sir Norman  Gilroy would never have been as dishonest as to belong to the National Civic Council and to try to undermine the traditions of the Australian Labor movement. He decided that, where he was in charge of the church, the church would not be a party to the setting up of a religious political party which was the aim of the industrial groups and the National Civic Council in that period. He fought strongly against it. He advised those people who went to him for advice against joining what was erupting as a very reactionary right wing movement in Victoria, led by the late Archbishop Mannix and by Bob Santamaria. They were very angry with him. They needed his support to make the coup complete. The Labor movement in New South Wales- the key State in Australian pontics- remained very much united in that time because of the decision-making of the late Cardinal Gilroy. Not only was he an inspiration to the people of his own Church but also in a political sense history will show him to be a very wise man. 
As to the role of the National Civic Council in Australian politics, it is a proscribed organisation for members of the Australian Labor Party, as is the Communist Party. People who are found guilty of being members of it are expelled from the Australian Labor Party. In the case of the two chaps just mentioned by the honourable member for Denison- I went to the trouble of reading the evidence- it is of interest to note that the Tasmanian Branch of the Australian Labor Party not only conducted the inquiry quite properly but also laid open the inquiry to the Press. The Press was present when all the evidence was given. The evidence is there for everybody to read. Evidence was given that the two people involved attended meetings of the National Civic Council on more than one occasion. There is no doubt that the National Civic Council over the last 20 years and more has been interested in gaining power and supremacy in decision-making and policy-making within the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member mentioned  Senator Harradine. Senator Harradine  was expelled from the Labor Party for a number of offences. They were dealt with by the National Executive because bis original offence was against the National Executive, not against a branch of the Party. I do not think anyone here now would deny that  Senator Harradine  is and has been for some time a very active agent of the National Civic Council. I just ask: Why do people who take this decision to belong to the National Civic Council not have the courage of their convictions and leave the Labor Party to take up their rightful places in that extreme right-wing group and let the world know and stand for positions in the Labor movement on the basis that that is their belief? It was not my intention to become involved in the Tasmanian dispute. That has now been settled. I pay tribute to the late Cardinal Gilroy. On behalf of the Labor movement, I thank him for his very wise decision in the mid-1950s when he rejected the plea of Archbishop Mannix and Bob Santamaria to break up the Labor movement. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to press reports that the Bureau of Customs is considering raising additional revenue through a change in the method of valuing goods. 
If so, does this change involve adoption of new definitions of the term 'buyer' to that previously in force. 
Would such a change be highly inflationary and add significantly to the cost to the consumer in many areas where quantitative restrictions already apply. 
Will he give an assurance that if these changes are made no retrospective action will be taken concerning past importations. 
Will he also give an assurance that a provision will be made for the Industries Assistance Commission to review any changed levels of protection in the same way as existed in the period until 31 December 1976. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Has his attention been drawn to allegations in the Press that the political parties backing the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia have $4m available to them for the forthcoming election? 
I join in supporting the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in asking the House to give approval for the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  to make a statement. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made an extremely important statement. 

-No. I do not intend to join the Australian Democrats but obviously a lot of people in the Liberal Party have joined the Australian Democrats, as one can see from the polls that have taken place. I think a lot of those honourable members opposite who will lose their seats could well end up in the Australian Democrats. I can see no reason for this chamber to refuse to allow a person who is recognised as the leader of his own political party the right to speak on the subject of an election which is being called 12 months before it is due. A significant decision has been made by the Prime Minister. Obviously, the reasons he has given the House are misleading. Obviously, the issues on which the election will be fought are of significance to the Australian Democrats as well as to the Liberal and National Country Parties and to the Australian Labor Party. The reason for the Prime Minister and the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  refusing the right to the honourable member for Hotham to make a statement has not been given to the House. Leave was merely refused. One of the reasons, of course, that an election has been called for the House of Representatives and half the Senate is that an attempt is being made to silence the Australian Democrats. That is the whole purpose of this early election. The election has been called so that  Mr Fraser  can conclude the coup of getting rid of the clique which perhaps was opposed to his coming to the leadership of the Liberal Party. In that case, one of the people involved was the present  Speaker  - 
Motion (by  Mr  Sinclair) proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
The other person involved was the honourable member for Hotham. That is the reason why the gag has been moved in this chamber. 
Question put- 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations consider a scheme whereby unemployed people could receive a day's wages by the Government inviting them to man the polling booths for the various political parties on 10 December? 
-It is necessary for the Australian Labor Party to dissociate itself from the damage that has been done to Des Cooper Constructions Pty Ltd. It is obvious to all concerned in this Parliament that, now that we are legislating by saturation, mistakes will be made. The Notice Paper today is filled with Government mistakes. This is the first of them and there are others to come. This Government has been the laziest in the history of parliament. For three months we have sat here doing nothing. The Senate has been rising early every week because it has had no business to deal with. Grave damage has been done to the firm mentioned in this report because of the mad rush that has been contemplated by this Government. 
-by leave-It was my privilege to serve for some time as a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism whilst I was responsible for the area of tourism as the shadow Minister. It was a privilege because the findings of the Committee have vindicated the Opposition's view that tourism should be given far greater emphasis in government policies than is given today. Australia has an enormous amount to offer the people of Australia. It is a great tragedy that so many people are unable to take a holiday in this country of ours. Some times the number of people who do not have holidays in Australia is submerged by the fact that as parliamentarians we do so much travelling and have access almost any day to some of the best spots in Australia when we are carrying out our parliamentary duties, but that is not the case for all Australians. I think this Committee has unravelled many of the problems which are confronting the average Australian citizen. 
I rise not only to mention these things and the importance of the Committee, which I hope will be able to continue in the next Parliament- it certainly will because we have already made up our minds to reconstitute the Committee- but also because I want to pay a tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  because he has announced his retirement from Federal politics. He was a perfect public relations officer as far as the National Parliament was concerned and a great judge of places to go for hearings. I do not think that we missed any of the good spots. I think that the evidence that was given was always given in very pleasant surroundings. The  Chairman  was always held responsible for making those f feasant speeches in response to mayors, councilors, aldermen and the  chairman  of local tourist associations and he did it with great style and dignity which served all in this Parliament very well. 
While the inquiry may not have been concluded it has not been a waste of time and those honourable members who served on the Committee have served in an area which is extremely important. It is a great pity that the travel agents legislation which passed through the House of Representatives some years ago under the Labor Administration, in 1975 1 think, was not brought into law in this country. It is sadly needed. I am sure that when the final evidence of any committee is brought before this House that aspect certainly will be in the top priority of its recommendations. Tourism is an extremely important area. I was privileged to serve on the Committee, especially under such a gentleman as the honourable member for Herbert. 
Having had a look at the new Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and having had a look at the previous Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  I must say that it seems to me that the only difference between them is that the new Treasurer wears glasses. He too has entertained the Parliament by reading out the notes provided by Treasury, just as his predecessor did. He bored us with all the rhetoric that comes from Treasury and he ignored the issue upon which this debate is based. He denies that the Government involves itself in ad hockery. I suppose the wage price freeze was the climax of its ad hockery policies over the last two years. 
Today is the first day of debate for the session. Some honourable members may have expected that Labor Party members, having suffered an overwhelming defeat at the election, would be probably a little bent and not looking forward to the debates which will take place in the Parliament. I make one point quite clear on behalf of the Labor Party and honourable members on this side of the Parliament: Under no circumstances do we accept that the Government, in spite of its majority, has a mandate to extend proverty, has a mandate to extend unemployment, has a mandate to extend family breakups, or has a mandate to promote greater drug dependence in the community. Those are some of the offshoots of high unemployment in this country. 
Twelve months ago my colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  asked the Government to channel a little more expertise in this Parliament to looking at the unemployment situation in this country. The Labor Party was predicting then that 6 per cent or 7 percent of the work force of this country would be unemployed in early 1978 unless steps were taken in late 1976 and early 1977 to overcome the problems which Australia was heading into. The Government ignored those predictions. Indeed, it charged us with being irresponsible. It charged us with lightening away investment. It charged us with all the charges that could come to the lips of Government supporters to try to defeat us in debate in the Parliament. But now we have it. The one figure that the Treasurer did not mention was that there are 445,000 Australians- 7.2 per cent of the work force- now out of work. Of that figure 163,000 people have lost their jobs or failed to get jobs since this Government came to power two years ago. 
I remind the Parliament of some of the cliches that have been used by Government spokesmen. The first and the most infamous was: 'Only under the Liberals will there be jobs for everyone'. That was contained in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1975. Since that statement was made 163,000 more people have become unemployed. Then we had a second cliche. The Prime Minister seems to save them up for election campaigns. In the last election campaign it was: 'As from February unemployment will start to drop'. I suspect, although I do not know, that he does that on the basis of the advice given to him by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  There are 75,000 more people out of work now than when the Prime Minister made that statement. It is no wonder he could say that unemployment would drop from February. The Government was expecting unemployment to increase slightly in January 1978. It will say that it is all due to school leavers. If it were not for those dastardly school leavers unemployment would not rise in January 1978. But the school leavers in January 1978 represented only 25 per cent of the increase that took place in that month. Only 9,000 of the 40,000 people who were looking for work in January were people who could be described as school leavers. 
There is a structural problem in the economy about which the Opposition has been telling the Government for two years but which it refuses to recognise. Questions asked in the Parliament today pointed to the additional problems being felt in the dwelling industry and the figures in this morning's newspapers reveal the problems in the automobile industry. We have such excess capacity in many industries in Australia today that unemployment, unless it is checked by Government programs, will continue to grow. But the Government does nothing. Now it says: Why do you not put up some proposals? The Opposition has done so. Many of the State Premiers have followed the initiatives taken by the Opposition. It is no good this Government trying to do anything unless it calls together State governments and local government authorities throughout Australia to see what sort of crash program can be initiated to put people back to work quickly. We are no longer in a position where we can embark on a long stage program and hope that we can get the figure of 445,000 down to 250,000 in time for the next election. We have massive social problems in this country which every member who attends his electorate office ought to be aware of. Every member ought to be aware of the young people who cannot find jobs. He ought to be aware of the highly qualified youth who visit our electorate offices daily, disillusioned with society and this Government because all their studies are wasted as they go out on the street to work with a pick and shovel if they are lucky enough to be able to find employment of that nature. Still the Government does nothing. 
Yesterday, in the Governor-General's Speech, written for him by some of the brilliants of the Prime Minister's Department, it was stated that there shall be no trade off between inflation and unemployment. That means that we are given notice by this Government that in no circumstance will the priority given to reducing inflation be traded off for some humanity, for some sort of appeal to help those people who make up that 445,000. By some strange coincidence this Government thinks of figures as figures. It refuses to recognise those figures as human beings who live in every region in every part of this country. It is no longer just a labour force matter in Labor areas or a working class matter. Middle class families throughout this country are being affected just as much as working class families. It affects all the regions, all the cities and all the major provincial towns. In Queensland almost 9 per cent of the work force is unemployed. Still the Government sits here and says that it is going to concentrate on inflation. What is the peak figure of unemployment in this country necessary to bring the Government to its senses? How far will it allow all the social ills that exist in our society today to go before it takes some steps to start talking to people about what will occur. 
The Opposition has said time and again that there are structural problems in the economy. They ought to be looked at by this Parliament, but the Government refuses. We can have parliamentary committees on terrorism, foreign affairs, Aboriginal affairs and 10 1 other subjects, but we dare not have a parliamentary committee on unemployment because that might prove embarrassing to the Government. So far as the Opposition is concerned, the Government should take notice that it has no mandate to build an army of unemployed. It must take action forthwith to reduce those 445,000 unemployed. It is no good sending a Minister into the chamber to say that we have the National Employment and Training scheme or a youth employment scheme or some of the other things that have been put forward over the last two years. They are not even scratching the surface of this massive social problem with which this country is confronted today. It is about time conservative politicians who sit on the other side of this House realised what must be done. As I said, there is no restriction on the people who are affected by unemployment. 
The other matter we have to take into account is that not only do we have this massive number of people unemployed but also that over the last two years an unknown number of young people have left school, for no other reason than that they cannot find employment and have been forced back to school because their parents do not want them wandering around the streets. They say: 'Go back and waste another year of your life by repeating your matriculation or fourth year high school or just so we know where you are'. That is all the design of this Government. The Government's great theory was that if inflation was reduced unemployment would be reduced. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  tells us that the Government's economic theories have worked, its economic package has been a success and inflation has dropped below double figures. If we accept that inflation is down from double figures to single figures, according to the economic package of the Government two years ago unemployment should have dropped also. Inflation has dropped, according to the Government, but unemployment has risen by 163,000. If the automobile industry is working at 70 per cent capacity, which is the evidence given to us by the industry - 
Whilst not opposing the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  I think it is opportune to say a few words about some of the problems with which we may be confronted. It is not the Opposition's intention in any way at all to obstruct the business of the House. Indeed, we face so many problems that in many ways we will try to assist the Government in getting through its business. Nevertheless we have to protect not only the rights of the Opposition but also the rights of individual members of this House in grievance debates, General Business debates and so forth. We will be keeping a very close eye on things to see that those rights are not submerged by the Government in any move to amend the Standing Orders. 
Perhaps these things should be said later in the Budget Debate on the Parliament, but I want to say at the commencement of this session of the new Parliament that the times, the sittings and the working conditions under which honourable members will operate in this Parliament will perhaps be a little worse than they have been for a long time. Some honourable members with their staff and their officers are going to be a little cranky by the end of the week with the long sitting hours and with the Parliament trying to operate in a building which obviously has outlived its usefulness. I have been transferred to an office which has less ventilation than a Kentucky coal mine. I think by Thursday night at 1 1 o'clock I will be looking forward to going home. These conditions will have some effect on the performance of members of this House. We are entitled to have staff members available to us in the Parliament. The Government reserves the right to extend the arm of the Executive throughout the premises of Parliament House. Many honourable members will be working under very trying conditions in this Parliament over the next few years. I say that there is probably a case for having a very close look at the hours and days on which this Parliament sits, to see whether we cannot have a more regular sitting- nine to five or whatever it may be- so that we do not have to put up with these cramped conditions and these very unpleasant working surroundings which undoubtedly we will have to put up with in the foreseeable future. 
I wish to raise at the very first opportunity in the first session of the Thirty-first Parliament a subject about which I have spoken on many occasions during the term of the previous two parliaments. I refer, of course, to the funding of political parties. I understand from unconfirmed reports which have been given to me today that at last the Liberal and National Country Parties are taking some notice of what the Labor Party has been saying about this matter for some years and have acted. Before getting on to the decision which may or may not have been made by the Liberal and National Country Parties, let me say that the 1977 election was, as the Opposition predicted, a showplace for vast sums of money to be spent, especially by the Government Parties, from unrevealed sources to buy favours of which we are unaware in this Parliament and which will lead to a further degeneration in respect for the national Parliament of this country. There can be no doubt that the amount spent on the 1977 election was the largest single amount ever spent on any election in the history of this country. If we can judge by the Victorian experience after the last State election, the Government parties probably have finished with surplus money after the election. 
Of course, much of the money was wasted but many accusations have been made subsequently about the amount of money that was spent by individual candidates and the political parties. 
We on this side of the House believe that the Liberal and National Country Parties spent throughout Australia something in the vicinity of $6m. 
-The Opposition heard that individual candidates from the Government parties spent in the vicinity of $60,000 to $70,000 in some electorates. We know that the fund raising machines of particular candidates are unable to raise that amount of money, as we know that the normal old schemes of raising funds for political parties are unable to raise $6m. I have said it before and I will say it again in the Parliament until we get reform on this matter that major donations have been made to political parties. Donors may be the beneficiaries of legislation or Government decisions and it may mean that their donations are not donations at all but, rather, should be looked upon as an investment in future business decisions which will be made in this country. 
Every comparable country has undertaken reform on this question. Even blockheads like the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  will have to recognise that this is necessary. Today, I am told, the Liberal and National Country Parties have referred to their secretariats for investigation the funding of political parties and the limit that should be spent on political campaigns. I raise this question again not only to show the Opposition's intense concern to bring about reform on this matter but also to show up the Government's lack of knowledge about how these matters should be dealt with. To refer these matters outside is a mistake which ought to be realised and reversed immediately. The body that ought to be dealing with this matter is the Parliament. Parliaments throughout the world have dealt with this matter and brought about reform. David Combe and Tony Eggleton are not responsible to the people of Australia. The people who are elected to this Parliament are responsible. David Combe and Tony Eggleton will not be brought down if there is some sort of smirch or conspiracy or some sort of donation which reveals that some individual may have made a donation for benefits he can receive later on. It is this Parliament and the people who serve in it who ought to be on the committee investigating what has happened throughout the rest of the world that has been necessary to bring about this reform. All I am saying is that the Liberal and National Country Parties have taken the first step. They are like a baby on this issue. They have acknowledged that there ought to be an investigation on it. All the Opposition is asking- because we are quite sure what will happen once the investigation takes place- is for the Parliament to do the investigating. A joint committee of the political parties in this chamber ought to be investigating the issue, not people outside the Parliament. The Government has made a very grave mistake. 

 -Mr Speaker, you will be pleased to know that I have already congratulated the right honourable member for Lowe on his birthday. I think I wrote him a letter. 
-Will the Prime Minister confirm that the new Ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation will be paid an ambassadorial salary of $30,000 per year, a living allowance of $1 1,600 tax free per year, and an entertainment allowance of $6,000 tax free per year, be provided with a luxury apartment in Australia's new Embassy in Paris and be provided also with a new Mercedes Benz and chauffeur? Will these payments be made on top of the pension of $33,000 per year he already receives? Finally, does the Prime Minister consider this amount of $80,000 enough? 
We demand a full discussion on this matter immediately. There is a cover-up on this question of the role of IBM Australia Ltd and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Parliament is entitled to have a discussion on it forthwith. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 

 -Mr Speaker, the - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The Opposition requires to know what matter is being raised? We might have no objection to it. It might be in regard to the matter the Opposition wishes to raise. All we are asking for is an indication of what the statement is about. 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That so much of the Standing Oders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister making a statement to the House forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I can sympathise with those honourable members who have raised the question of the conditions under which they work in Parliament House. I can sympathise with the views expressed by honourable members who represent the areas around Canberra, particularly the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  in wanting the building industry in the Australian Capital Territory to be given some sort of boost. I rise in this debate because it is the only opportunity I think I will have to express a view, on behalf of the Opposition, on how disappointed we are that in the list of committees which has been submitted by the Government to be established in this Parliament there is no mention of manpower planning. I would have thought that the Parliament would have been entitled to expect the Government to have given this matter consideration. In spite of the conditions under which we work in Parliament House, I am sure that those of us who are interested in these problems and those of us who are concerned about the way in which unemployment is growing day by day and week by week would have appreciated and welcomed an opportunity to work on a committee that was looking at manpower planning throughout Australia. I believe it is an indictment on this Government that again it has ignored this very urgent problem. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-During this debate I wish to touch on several matters, some of which cropped up during the election campaign of 1977 and others which are relevant to the terms of this debate. The first thing that ought to be said about the political situation in which we now find ourselves in Australia is that the Australian Labor Party does not intend to sit here for the next three years saying merely that it can pick up a few seats in 1980 and then, perhaps, be returned to government or have a chance of being returned to government in the early 1980s. Nor are we going to take the course that some of us may have been lulled into taking following the 1975 general election and in any election held after that period that everything would have to be better for us and that we would continue to win additional divisions for this Federal Parliament. Based on the mistakes we have made in the past, together with the mistakes this Government is making in its relationship with the Australian community, it is our intention that the Labor Party shall sit on the Government benches in 1980 with Bill Hayden as the Prime Minister of this country. I think there is every reason for Labor people throughout this country to take up the political fight as we have now had it presented to us. It will be imperative for our side of politics to involve a great many more people in the Australian political scene than has been the case in past years. 
There are fewer people participating in politics in this country than in any other comparable country. It is to the detriment of the dialogue and the debate that must take place in this country on the really important political issues that the colleges and the campuses are going quiet on politics. It will be, as it has always been, the responsibility of the Labor Party to have these people interested in politics, to have them discussing major issues and to have them wondering whether we are ever going to overcome this massive problem with which we are confronted at the moment, to see whether the social reform which will be required for the future economy of Australia can be undertaken by the present system of politics in Australia as we have it today. 
It is not the intention of the Labor Party to go to sleep until 1980 and then hope that by default we will pick up a few additional members in the onslaught we might have in the 1983 general election. Ours must be a very positive approach. We have to involve a lot more people in supporting our cause. We have to explain our policies a great deal better than perhaps we have done in the past. There will be absolutely no room for complacency in the Labor movement as we go about dismantling this Government which, in our opinion, is as bad as any Liberal-Country Party government since Federation. 
I wish to touch on a range of matters but I shall deal first with the question of election funding. This is a matter on which I have spoken continually in this House. From reports in the newspapers, I understand that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have decided that their secretariats ought to have the matter looked at by people in the party machines. I raise this question not only in relation to the 1977 campaign, but also in relation to attacks that have been made on the trade unions by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  only last week. Our position on this matter is quite clear. We believe that the present system of funding of political parties leaves itself open to all types of allegations of corruption. If one wanted a clearer example of what sorts of allegations could be made, one would only have to look to Question Time this morning when questions were directed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to the need for his cancelling of a contract made with a major Japanese company in order that a complaint by an American company could be sorted out. If, in the case of IBM Australia Ltd- the complaining company- there is a receipt made out by it to the Liberal Party for any major political donation at the last election or previous elections, no one in Australia will be convinced that there is not some relationship between that donation and the decision made by the Prime Minister to end the contract with the Japanese company. 
These allegations survive because of the way in which the laws are framed in Australia. As I have said repeatedly in this Parliament, it is to the detriment of  every  parliamentarian and of all the institutions, both Federal and State, that we continue with the laws in their present form. I am specifically critical of the Government parties referring this matter back to their own party machines. These laws are laws made in the Parliament of Australia. The changes to those laws and the discussion on the reform of those laws ought to be undertaken by the people who participate in the national Parliament, namely the members of parliament. To shunt this matter away into a little corner and hope that it will be forgotten is the only aim of some honourable members on the Government benches who believe that under the present laws they have an enormous advantage over all the other contestants in politics, particularly the Labor Party. 
We understand that in 1977 the Liberal Party and the National Country Party spent between $6m and $7m campaigning in this country. We tried to raise approximately $ 1.25m. We are now reaching the stage where our campaign procedures and expenditures in Australia are similar to those in the United States. Even the United States has seen fit to change the laws on political funding, making public the names of those people who make donations to either of the candidates or the major political parties. The laws in Australia must be changed for the benefit of all concerned. 
The Deputy Leader of the National Country Party took time out during the week to attack the trade unions for making political donations. The trade unions are the only group in this country which make public the fact that they have made a political donation. If the Australian Workers Union, the Metal Workers Union or the Waterside Workers Federation make a political donationand usually such a donation would go to the Labor Party- that donation is always made public. There is no secret about a donation from a trade union, nor can there be, because its balance sheet will show it. Members of the union have every right to go to the union meeting and object and oppose the donation being made. 
But in the case of public companies, this is not the rule, and every honourable member opposite knows it. Companies in Australia are making political donations without anybody else in the company, apart from the hierarchy, being aware of the amount that is being set aside. Amounts being made available to the Liberal and National Country parties are amounts that cannot be raised through the normal channels. The amounts being donated are of such proportions that they ought to be made public in the public interest, the same way as donations from the trade unions are made public. We have asked time and time again- and I do not want to take the whole 20 minutes allotted for my speech on this question- for the appointment of a parliamentary committee to look at the system of electoral laws and the funding of political parties. There should be a public register of those who make donations to political parties so that all is out in the open. When people write in the newspapers that we are all at the bar and that we are drunk, that nobody has respect for us and that we are bludgers, Government supporters are up in arms. They practically want to have a judicial inquiry about it. But nothing will ever come of such action because that type of view is now a fact of life in the thinking of the Australian populace. It will continue to be their thinking whilst we try to hide behind laws such as that applying to political donations for some narrow advantage at election time. The thinking of the Australian people also will be that for one reason or another we are easily bought off as such donations do not have to be made public. 
I appeal to the Government and to those honourable members sitting on the Government benches not to send this matter off to their respective parties, but to bring it into this House. We are not holding some sort of inquiry into what has happened over the last 20 years. We want to come up with some solutions as to what should happen over the next 20 years. If we were to do the same as every other country has done, that is exactly what would happen in Australia. Let us not wait for one of the States to make the first move. We should make the first move. We are the national Parliament; we are answerable to the people right throughout Australia, not one portion of it, and we ought to be giving a lead to the State parliaments as to what ought to happen. 
I wish to refer to the most recent innovation in relation to this matter. The Houghton report was brought down in the House of Commons just 18 months ago. The committee was set up by the Government and consisted of an array of people. It visited other countries; it talked to business; it talked to trade unions; it talked to individuals. It talked to all interested parties throughout the United Kingdom and many other countries. What were its recommendations? They were exactly the same as those that have been in evidence in Sweden, Germany and Austria for many years. It said that not only is it proper that there should be State aid for political parties, but that the democracy we know is very much dependent on the role of political parties and that if the role of political parties and those people in them can be enhanced by State aid to political parties, such action is of benefit to the community. 
We ought to look at some of the other arguments, apart from the attitude held by many honourable members opposite who say: 'If we can get donations under the present system, we would have to be crazy to change it'. They know under what circumstances the system will be changed. If it is not changed by means of common sense, discussion and reform in the manner I have prescribed in this Parliament, corruption and sensationalism will do so. That will be the next step in Australian politics. Someone will be revealed to be involved in a Watergate-type scandal or some other matter involving political parties or politicians being bought off in the manner in which the Lockheed Corporation did so throughout the world in trying to ensure that it was awarded contracts. 
We have been slow enough in making a change. Every other country with a political system comparable to our own has already moved in that direction. What they have done might not be perfect. Maybe we would have to make some changes to suit the Australian conditions. At least we have enough talent in this Parliament to be able to sort out that sort of thing. We ought to be able to ascertain what mistakes those countries have made and incorporate remedies in a report. Today we debated the re-appointment of the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. Honourable members entered the debate one after the other to say that their offices were too small or to talk about the fact that their office was the old barber shop. I said that there is no ventilation in my office. The working conditions are terrible. But very few honourable members say in the House: 'We do not have sufficient research backup; we are not able to do the sort of work we ought to be doing on policies so that we can come up with some answers to the problems with which we will be confronted over the next 20 or 30 years'. 
That is the area into which people such as the members of the Houghton Committee in the United Kingdom inquired. I do not think any honourable member opposite, using the wildest words, would describe the House of Commons as being so very different from the House of Representatives. If the parliamentarians of the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Norway, Austria and the United States collectively agree that state aid is required for political parties, that there should be a public register listing the names of private donors to political parties, why on earth can such a  proposition not  fee accepted in Australia? The Liberal and National Country parties must have an ulterior motive in rejecting such a proposition. 
-The Houghton report in the United Kingdom suggested as its first recommendation, which I understand is about to be adopted, that Stg1.5m be made available in the first year of operation as aid to political parties. Such aid will be based on the percentage vote received by the political parties at the previous election or according to the number of candidates elected. So the Government parties are in a very advantageous position to take liberty of such a proposition at the moment. 
Some unions in the United Kingdom were opposed to the implementation of a system of state aid to political parties and some supported it. A much smaller amount of money is raised in Australia at the moment by the Labor Party from the trade unions than was the case previously. The amount is getting smaller. The trade unions are in no position to make major donations to any political party. The interesting point about the 1977 election is that in a number of letters which the Labor Party received from sections of private enterprise the sentiment was expressed that they wanted the laws in Australia to be changed. They said that they did not want to discuss in their board rooms the subject of political donations but were afraid not to do so because the Government might get wind of it and find that they were not supporting the Liberal and National Country parties. The whole situation smells at the moment. The Government parties have every reason to change the system. If the Government were to set up a committee of the Parliament, as has been done in other countries, there is no reason why the present laws would not be changed. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to  8  p.m. 
Before I conclude my remarks on the question of the funding of political parties, I have sought permission from the Government to have incorporated in  Hansard  the terms of reference of the Houghton Committee set up by the House of Commons in 1975, together with that Committee's recommendations. I seek leave to have that document incorporated. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

BACKGROUND 
Introduction 
. 1 The Committee was set up by the Government in May 1975, with the following terms of reference: 'To consider whether, in the interests of Parliamentary democracy, provision should be made from public funds to assist political parties in carrying out their functions outside Parliament; to examine the practice of other Parliamentary democracies in this field, and to make recommendations as to the scope of political activities to which any such provision should relate and the method of its allocation. ' 
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
We recommend the introduction of a system of state financial aid for political parties in the United Kingdom. 
Such aid should take the form of: 
annual grants to be paid from Exchequer funds to the central organisations of the parties for their general purposes, the amounts being determined according to the extent of each party's electoral support; 
at local level, a limited reimbursement of the election expenses of Parliamentary and local government candidates. 
In order to qualify for a grant a party must at the previous general election have either: 
saved the deposits of its candidates in at least six constituencies; or 
had at least two of its candidates returned as Members; or 
had one of its candidates returned as a Member, and received as a party a total of not less than 150,000 votes. 
The amount of the annual grant payable to each of the qualifying parties shall be calculated on the basis of 5p for each vote cast for its candidates at the previous general election. 
The scheme for the limited reimbursement of candidates' election expenses should apply to all Parliamentary elections, and to all elections for county and district councils in England and Wales, regional, island and district councils in Scotland, and the Greater London Council and London borough councils. 
Reimbursement should be restricted to those candidates who poll at least one-eighth of the votes cast, and the amount to be reimbursed should be the candidates' actual election expenses up to a limit of half his legally permitted maximum expenditure. Payment shall be made directly to the candidate. 
It is recommended that the first payment of the proposed annual grants payable to the parties should be on 1 April 1977, and that the scheme for the limited reimbursement of candidates' election expenses should operate for all Parliamentary and relevant local government elections held on or after 1 April 1977. 
The total cost of state aid to the political parties under these proposals is estimated at, on average, about  2Va  million a year. Of this, the annual grants to the parties would comprise about  1 ,440,000 and the reimbursement of candidates' election expenses approximately 860,000 a year (including 360,000 in respect of Parliamentary candidates and 500,000 for local government candidates). 
It is proposed that the reimbursement schemes should be extended to include elections to the European Parliament and to the Scottish and Welsh Assemblies as occasion arises. 
-Another matter that I wish to raise while we are considering the AddressinReply is the question of wages in Australia. This question had become so relevant this week when what the Opposition believes is a very bad decision for wage and salary earners was handed down in the national wage case. It has been the intention of this Government since December 1 975 when it was elected to office to reduce real wages continually. The Government has had continual success on that front. The increase in real wages has been undeniably far less than has been the rise in the cost of living during that twoyear period. Based on average weekly earnings of about $200 a week, working men and women in Australia are now $ 10 a week worse off in real terms than they would have been two years ago. 
So the onslaught by this Government on wages and salaries continues in the very vain hope that this will be one economic instrument that will be able to bring Australia out of the economic recession in which we find ourselves. What will happen, and what I believe is happening in the minds of those people who control the Government- the Prime Minister and some others- is that those people are intent on trying to abolish wage indexation. Their commitment to wage indexation as given to the electorate in December 1975 is vastly different from the view they now express at national wage hearings. I believe that they see as a way of cutting back the total national wage bill the abolition of indexation in order to allow separate units in the work force to obtain the wage increases that they can, depending upon their industrial strength, while many people in the mainstream of the labour force would be unable to keep up with the cost of living in any way at all. I think that the axe is hanging over the head of wage indexation by virtue of only one attitude, that is, the attitude of the Federal Government here in Canberra. The majority of States and the majority of people who appeared in the first national wage case for 1 978 supported a wage increase of one kind or another. The exceptions were the Federal Government and the West Australian Government. 
People talk about selling manufactured goods and a consumer led recovery. It is obviously impossible for consumers- the wage and salary earners- to bring about any consumer led recovery whilst their overall real wages are being continually cut. Despite the arguments that take place, it does not matter whether the national wage hearings are quarterly, half-yearly or annual: If real wages continue to be cut in the way they have been in the last two years, if petrol prices continue to increase in the manner in which they have increased and continue to be ignored by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as being relevant to the cost of living increases that ought to be passed on to wage and salary earners, if the Government continues with its threat to abolish Medibank and thus thrusts up health insurance costs by what we believe will be about $ 1 9 a week per family, there will not be any consumer led recovery. There will be consumer led gloom which will only dampen down an already sick economy. 
The Government's policy on wages is completely negative and the Commission 's decision falls into line with the Government's attitude. It seems to me that the Commission was looking more at the election result of last December than at the submissions that were put before it by all the people representing the trade union movement and some State governments. The maintenance of real wages is an important aspect in getting to consumers the goods that are manufactured in Australia and the goods that are imported into Australia. If the income of consumers is continually cut it will be disastrous for any sort of economic recovery. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodgman)  adjourned. 
-The House is debating an extremely important subject. I want to make some comment about the controversy over the Industries Assistance Commission and perhaps on the commitments of the major political parties and the extent to which that had a bearing on the last federal election. It was my experience that some unpleasantness was expressed about the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in relation to three major industries, textiles, clothing and footwear, during that election. I think that this is the appropriate debate in which to express a view not only about what occurred but also about the person who manufactured the episode. I agree with the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  who has just spoken in the debate that there is no easy way to solve these problems. I think that the more we delve into the unemployment problem that we have today the more we can see the futility of those who merely say that greater protection can overcome all the problems. 
The real problem we have today- I will say a little more about it later on- in the motor car industry is not that we do not have enough cars, not that we cannot produce vehicles efficiently enough for the size of our domestic market or that our work force is lazy and does not work as well as other work forces throughout the rest of the world. There is real buyer resistance to buying the local product in Australia at the moment. Until the industry is able to overcome those problems, no talk of protection, tariff barriers or trade will allow the car industry to recover. 
During the 1 977 election campaign, at a time when I was visiting Western Australia, statements were made by industry leaders of the apparel manufacturers that they had word from the Australian Labor Party that Labor had committed itself to be a free trade party. I do not know anyone who has ever looked at current or past Australian politics who could ever in his wildest dreams describe the Labor Party as or having been a free trade party. Some of our members may have bordered on that dream on occasions, but by and large the Australian Labor Party has been very much a party of concensus on the question of trade. Nevertheless, this accusation was made against the Labor Party. I happened to hear it. It was of some interest to me as I was the shadow Minister and I had not been contacted by the people involved. Nevertheless, these industry leaders decided it was a good ploy to try to bargain with the two major political parties as to where they stood on the question of protection for the footwear, clothing and textile industries during this period so that perhaps they could squeeze a little bit more out of whoever happened to be the victor. 
I was a little appalled by that tactic in the first instance. Nevertheless, I sought to make inquiries as to how this could have come about. Over the two years I have been shadow Minister the industries generally had been extremely good in their communications with me. I had no reason to complain at all about the way I was contacted or brought into discussions that were held about the state of the industry. This was a very interesting period because many of Australia's industries during those two years, as is the case today, faced many problems and looked for government intervention in many forms to overcome them. However, there can be no doubt in my mind, having seen the way in which the apparel manufacturers, and particularly  Mr Ray  Aitcheson their spokesman at the time had acted, that this was a deliberate attempt not only to get more out of the Liberal-Country Party Government by way of a commitment but also to try to see that some disadvantage was suffered by the Labor Party. I say this because at no time did anybody from these industries try to contact me as the Labor spokesman. 
When, finally, I contacted the industry close to the election day after this matter had received maximum publicity and the damage had been done I received an apology from their spokesman who said that normally during the two-year period they would have contacted me as the spokesman for the Labor Party but that during the height of the election they were unable to do so and that they were extremely sorry. They were sorry for making accusations against the Labor Party, for trying to bring major political parties into a bargaining position as to which party could offer and which could not offer the most protection. I do not want to spend much time on this most despicable action by  Mr Aitcheson.  It is for the apparel manufacturers to determine who speaks and who acts for them. But he certainly will not be speaking to me. 
In addition, one of the problems that arose was the infantile attitude of the now Government when the pressure was put on it. Up went the flag and out came the words. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 'We will do everything for those industries. No one will be displaced in the shoe, textile or clothing industries. We are going to be the party of jobs. ' Any trade unionist or any trade union official who believes a spokesman from the Liberal or National Country Parties on this question before he believes a member of the Labor Party is a fool. The Government was bludgeoned into taking this position when common sense should have reigned. We looked at the number of people who were working in those industries. We were told by the Prime Minister that no one working in those industries would lose his job. That statement must be treated in the same way as so many other statements that he made about what was going to happen. We were told that the Government would protect the jobs of every worker in the shoe, textile and clothing industries. Therefore it was with some amazement I found that during 1977, the year of this party of great protection, 19,000 people in the shoe, clothing and textile industries lost their jobs. I found that 19,000 people had already lost their jobs in the same year in which the Prime Minister had said: 'In future we will protect all the jobs'. 
It is gross stupidity for anyone to believe, or to commit himself by saying, that all jobs can be saved in all industries all the time. Manufacturers inform us that the investment allowance alone will assist people to replace labour by machines. Already, the hundreds of millions of dollars that have been spent through the investment allowance which will continue in operation until 1985 have displaced people, particularly those who work in labour-intensive industries. How does the Government trade off its commitment to the investment allowance with its promise to save all the jobs? Will the Government, perhaps through its industrial relations policies, seek by force to ensure that any company which uses the investment allowance will not be allowed to displace any employee in its industry? The Government was very stupid when it made the commitment in the election campaign that it would save all the jobs. 
We all know what is required in relation to the ures that are being applied in various sectors of industry. We know which areas are growing and which areas are declining. We know the pressures that will be applied on us continually, and in a far more harsh way than they have previously, by some of our major trading partners. We know what will happen to workers in Australia as a result of the continuing population explosion in Asia. We know that industry will always chase cheap labour. No policy will prevent that, no matter what company is involved. Multi-national or national companies which want to search for cheap labour will continue to do so. In many respects the Labor Party welcomes activities of this kind because they provide employment for people whose standard of living is way below that enjoyed already by Australians. What we need is a bit of common sense on this question rather than the making of mad rash promises that cannot be carried out. The Prime Minister has said that the current employment levels in the shoe, clothing and textile industries will be maintained. For that to be the case what he must be able to say to the Parliament from now on is: 'When I made that statement there were 120,000 employees in these three major industries and when I leave this place as Prime Minister of Australia there will still be at least 120,000 employees in them'. It is absolute nonsense to believe that this will be the case. Anyone who loses his job in the industry in the foreseeable future and who tries to hold the Prime Minister to that promise will be sadly disillusioned. 
I now refer to the car industry, a subject that has been raised by previous speakers. A very prominent spokesman for the car industryprobably its most prominent spokesman- told me on the basis of his expertise in this field that the car or auto industry parallels the health of the economy: If the economy is healthy, plenty of cars are being sold; but if the economy is sick, not so many cars are being sold. At the moment, according to his theory- and I have never seen him at a Labor Party meeting- the economy is very sick. The Government says that it has to protect all jobs. To achieve this, it says that it must reduce the existing quota restricting imported motor vehicles to 94,000 units. That quota was set as a result of the most recent inquiry into that industry. We used to have one inquiry a year; now they are running at two a year. It appears that, as a result of the muddling performance given by this Government on the question of the motor industry, we will have an inquiry every month. 
Like most industries, the auto industry, as has been stated time and time again in this Parliament, services a very small domestic market. Many of the people who moved into the second car family field, particularly at the end of the 1960s and the early 1970s, became consumers of the small imported car. The local industry ignored to its peril the desire by the consumer, influenced by price range and facilities, for such cars. Our industry is declining. It has been for the last 18 months. We have a small domestic market. When this Government came to power, it had the opportunity to rationalise one section of the industry- the four-cylinder engine section. 
The former Labor Government told the car industry that the market in Australia was too small to allow any further fragmentation of the auto industry. So the four-cylinder engines had to be made at one plant. That one plant was to be at Lonsdale in South Australia, which had the capacity to produce all the four-cylinder engines that all the major companies in Australia needed. But when this Government came to power again it bowed to General Motors-Holden Pty Ltd, Ford Australia Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd and the new Japanese entrants and said: 'We will have four-cylinder engine plants all over the place and if we cannot get enough of these engines we will have a quota for them to be imported'. Not only was our industry fragmented, not only did we have a small domestic market, and not only was this a costly production exercise but also we made it more costly. In the last major decision Australia had to make on the auto industry it was made an even more costly proposition to produce that product. 
The situation of GMH, which is working at 70 per cent capacity and which lost $8m in the last financial year according to its books, is a situation which GMH will not put up with for long. It has plants spread all over Australia. GMH has plants in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. I suggest that high on the agenda of GMH must be the possibility of rationalising its production and perhaps of closing down one of its plants. There must be some doubt in the minds of the new Japanese entrants about whether in fact it is wise for them to come into Australia to participate in the so-called 85 per cent local content plan. We already had overutilisation of plants prior to the Japanese entry into the market. Now we will have more manufacturers than the United States of America, which has a massive domestic market. 
Obviously one has to say that the situation is not the fault of the IAC. No matter how we change the rules of the IAC and irrespective of the nature of the report it brings back, the Government cannot do one thing. It cannot get the whip out and go round the suburbs saying to the consumers of Australia: 'You will have to go down to the local GMH dealer and buy a Kingswood, otherwise our plan will not work. We do not care how much you are earning, what sort of car you like or how large is your family. Unless you buy the normal car that is produced in Australia and pay the amount it is now costing to produce it all our plans will be upset'. The Government may write new rules for the IAC, as happened on the last occasion when the Government said: 'Tell us how to run a car plant with 85 per cent Australian content. Give the imports 20 per cent of the market up to a total of 94,000 units'. The IAC said: 'It is quite simple. This is how you do it. But that is not our recommendation ': 
I invite honourable members to look at that IAC report to see whether they can find the word 'recommendation' in it. The Government laid down the guidelines, as the Government will do in future. The honourable member for Moore was wrong. The recommendations of the IAC in future will be made in the light of Government policy. If the Government's policy is to close the market completely in Australia the IAC reports will be in line with Government policy. But that will not change the situation. It will not assist the situation. There may be those who would argue that the over-protection that we have been charged with haying in Australia over the past few years has put people out of work today and that the situation has arisen in a short period of time with little notice being given about the industries that are being closed down. As I have said, to make matters worse, industries in Australia are looking gleefully at the attractive offers that are being made to them by the industrial zones of Asia to set up industries there. 
It is foolhardy to believe that by some manipulation of legislation- amendment of the Industries Assistance Commission Act- we are going to, have a healthier economy or that in some way by amending the Industries Assistance Commission Act we will be able to protect all the jobs that were promised during the last election campaign would be protected. That proposition is nonsense and honourable members opposite know that it is nonsense. They rant and rave about how they belong to parties that stand for the employee and how they are trying to protect the employee. If they wanted to protect the employee domestically they would not have such a thing as an investment allowance. They would eradicate completely the pay-roll tax, a policy about which we came in for so much criticism. They would look at the things in Australia that militate against employing people. They should do away with them before they start talking this nonsense about amending the Industries Assistance Commission Act in the hope that they will protect all the jobs in Australia. 
I think it is fair enough to say that we have tried some of these things. We in this Parliament just do not seem to be sophisticated enough to be able to look at the long term problems of Australia and then have sufficient courage to say what ought to be done. Instead of being glib and saying that we have to restructure without really knowing what it means, why does the Parliament not say that we ought to be looking at these questions of restructuring because the most important thing to the Parliament is the security of the employee and the way in which we are able to attract investment, both locally and overseas. But we do not do that. We have this absolute nonsense, this charade of amending the Act in the hope that all the jobs will be saved. I have news for the 445,000 people who are out of work. This legislation will not change their position in life one iota and the hammer hangs over the heads of everybody who now works in manufacturing industry in Australia. 
I refer the Prime Minister to his Press release of 2 December headed 'Protecting Employment 'in which he said: 
My Government will not allow the destruction of 120,000 jobs in the clothing, footwear and textile industries. 
In view of the Prime Minister's unequivocal commitment to the workers in these industries, I ask: Is he aware of dismissal notices being served on 300 employees at Universal Textiles Australia Ltd, a subsidiary of Dunlop Australia Ltd, in Hobart last Friday? What action has the Government taken or what action does it intend to take on behalf of the 300 employees concerned? Was  the Press release I have referred to just another election gimmick? 

 -Mr Speaker - 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister from making a statement, without limitation of time, on the employment prospects for Australia 's unemployed. 
I move that motion because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  invited it during his contribution in the debate on the motion of censure. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it true that the Australian Bureau of Statistics' figures on unemployment to be released tomorrow will not include as unemployed any person who has received payment for work done during the survey week for one hour or more? Is it also true that no additional figure will be given by the Australian Bureau of Statistics to show exactly how many people fall into that category? If both those things are true, would it not mean that the figures given by the Australian Bureau of Statistics would greatly underestimate the number of unemployed in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Can an accurate figure be given for the number of young persons returning to school in 1 978 because of their inability to find employment. 
-We on this side of the House are opposed to the rush with which this legislation is being put through the House. We were told very late last night of the legislation being made available to us. Of course, that may have been because of the tactics of the Government. The Bill, together with details of a further amendment which is to be made to the final draft of the Bill, was provided to us very late last night. The Labor Party committee handling this matter met until the early hours of the morning. We again convened earlier today in order that we would be able to meet with those Aboriginal people who are meeting in Canberra and receive their views. We were told that we would receive a copy of the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  but it was not made available to us. This is the first time we have been able to see it and to see the explanations on the several clauses in the Bill. We do understand, of course, that the people of Mornington Island, Aurukun and many other communities in Queensland would wish as quickly as possible to take complete charge of the running of their own affairs in those areas but the rushing of this Bill through this Parliament in one day will not overcome the problems and could leave the Parliament with laws that just will not work. 
We have said previously that we will cooperate at every level to ensure that this legislation goes through the House as quickly as possible if we have had sufficient time to look at the legislation and time to be able to point up what we think are the shortcomings in the legislation. There is no need to break the tradition or convention in this House that the Opposition is given sufficient time to look at the legislation, to look at the second reading speech of the Minister and to put forward any amendments it may wish to put forward. We are not going to co-operate with the Government on this matter because it is merely making a farce of what is an extremely important matter. May I add that our suspicions are aroused because of the machinations of the Government in the past week. We are not at all amused by the manner in which the Minister and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  were herded off into Queensland and the initial back down to the Queensland Government. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
How many persons were registered for unemployment at Commonwealth Employment Service offices within the Electoral Divisions of (a) Wannon, (b) Richmond, (c) Flinders, (d) New England, (e) Corangamite, (f) Gippsland, (g) Benelong, (h) Kooyong, (i) Moreton, (j) Mcpherson, (k) Stirling, (1) Gwydir, (m) Warringah, (n) Fisher, (o) Boothby, (p) Bass, (q) Chisholm, (r) Balaclava, (s) Farrer, (t) Curtin, (u) Wentworth and (v) Braddon as at (i) 1 February 1976, (ii) 1 February 1977 and (iii) 1 February 1978. 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be established to inquire into and report on unemployment in Australia, with special reference to: 
1 ) the extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem; 
the degree to which unemployment bears particularly upon certain industries, regions and sectors of the workforce; 
the social implications of prolonged large-scale unemployment; 
the applicability to Australia of innovative employment creating schemes operating in other comparable countries; 
the extent to which unemployment could be reduced by implementing and expanding manpower programs; 
other means by which unemployment could be reduced, and 
the extent and nature of possible conflict between the objective of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. 
In 1945 the Chifley Government produced a White Paper on full employment in Australia. It began by stating: 
Full employment is a fundamental aim of the Commonwealth Government. 
The Government at that time believed that the people of Australia would demand and were entitled to expect full employment. However, since that time a retreat from the full employment objective has taken place gradually over a number of years. The present recession simply has made it more visible. This withdrawal from the full employment commitment has occurred in all Western European industrial countries as well as in the United States and Australia. No government has announced that it has demoted the full employment objective in order to give priority to price stability, but it is clearly a case of actions speaking louder than words. There can be absolutely no doubt that this Government has given up the hope of ever returning to full employment in Australia. Worse than that, government, through its Ministers or through the bureaucracy, refuses to accept the responsibilities of properly identifying the make-up of the long term challenge to future Australian governments of putting people back to work. 
The measure which the Opposition puts today is not a cheap political point-scoring exercise but a strong proposal which we have put forward on no fewer than three other occasions. Since this Parliament resumed just a few weeks ago it has established committees on such important matters as road safety, tourism, Aboriginal affairs, environment and conservation, foreign affairs and defence, public works, expenditure and a new and permanent Parliament House. It would seem to the casual observer that the Government has an absolutely indefensible case, having established the committees listed but refusing to establish a committee dealing with unemployment. Let me deal very briefly with the role of parliamentary committees. The committee system provides members with the opportunity of meeting together regularly to express their views. It also provides the officers of such committees with authority they would not otherwise possess in expressing their opinions to the Government. During the last decade there has been a rapid growth of committee activity. We believe that only through an effective committee system can the Parliament continue to perform its roles. 
In 1965  Sir John  Cramer spoke of the need to create more committees of Ministers and backbencher members to deal with the increasingly specialised and complex business of governing this nation. This Parliament supposedly is representative of the interests of all the communities in Australia. Honourable members from both sides of the House represent a number of constituents within those communities who are unemployed and who could remain unemployed permanently. The Australian people are demanding an answer to the question of why the Government is not doing more to alleviate the growing army of unemployed youth, women and school leavers- people who are wasting their talents and growing more despondent about their future. In a recent public opinion poll, 76 per cent of the people interviewed stated that unemployment was their primary concern. Concern for the unemployed outranked concern for inflation, industrial disputes, crimes of violence and education. In 1 975 the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System recommended, among other changes, that each House retain the right to appoint select committees to conduct long term inquiries into issues of concern to the Parliament. 
I will select one committee, the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, and deal very briefly with its terms of reference on this extremely important issue. One of its terms of reference was to examine the situation and potential of tourism in the Australian economy. Further it was asked to identify the short and long term issues facing the industry in Australia and to examine the roles and responsibilities of local government and the industry in relation to the development and promotion of tourism. I have selected these three terms of reference from a much wider range of terms of reference of one committee to show that the Government's refusal to accept our proposal to establish a joint committee on unemployment is a blatant political decision taken at the highest level of the Government- in this case by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who believes that the sole aim of the Opposition in having a committee of this nature is to embarrass the Government. 
On behalf of the Opposition I say that the unemployment situation in Australia is far too serious an issue for us to be concerning ourselves merely with embarrassing the Government. Our aim is to inject into the Parliament through this committee a greater understanding of the crisis of unemployment. We hope that the findings of such a committee would bring the Parliament to the realisation that urgent action has to be taken. 
I turn now to the terms of reference that we seek to set for this committee. I ask honourable members to question themselves as I proceed through them as to the wisdom and validity of our case. Firstly, we propose that the committee should look at the extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem. It should not be difficult for any member of this Parliament now to understand and accept that unemployment in Australia has developed into a long term problem. We should not allow the state of shock in which we may have lived over the last three or four years since Australia experienced a much higher level of unemployment to delude us into believing that very shortly all will return to normal. All the evidence to hand tells us quite a different story. 
Unemployment continues to grow. It does not matter whether we use the figures of the Commonwealth Employment Service or of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, it does not matter whether we do not count people who are selfemployed, the farmers and the families of farmers and it does not matter whether we ignore the young people who have to return to school- it matters little which way we approach the issue- the fact is that there are 160,000 more people registered as unemployed than there were when this Government came to power on a promise of restoring full employment. All Australians know it is a long term problem but the degree to which it is long term remains unknown. A parliamentary committee could do a great deal to provide information on this matter. 
Let us look at item 2 of the proposed terms of reference, which concerns the degree to which unemployment has an effect on certain industries, regions and sectors of the work force. It may be simple to ask whether we really need to investigate this matter, because we know it is the labour intensive industries that have suffered most and continue to suffer. In addition, we can add quite glibly that the industrial areas of Wollongong, Newcastle, Geelong, Ballarat and Whyalla have suffered most as regions and just leave it at that. Obviously if we are to do our work as parliamentarians that is an insufficient answer to give to the public of Australia. It is one thing to know what industries have suffered, what regions have suffered and what sectors of the work force have suffered. It becomes not so much a problem of what has happened over the last five years but of what is going to happen over the next ten years. There are 600 tradesmen registered as unemployed in Newcastle- at a time when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  says we need more skilled migrants. The recession in the regional centres is tearing to pieces any attempt by State governments to decentralise industry. One may ask: What are we doing about the sectors of the work force that are carrying this enormous burden? Who are they? What effect is unemployment having upon them? 
Firstly, let us look at the average duration for which people in Australia are unemployed. In February 1976, when this Government first came to power, the average unemployed person was out of work for a period of 14.4 weeks. In February 1977- just one year later- the period was 17.9 weeks. In February 1978, this Government having been in power for two years, it was 19.7 weeks. Added to this, in February 1976 there were slightly more than 1 1 people out of work for every unfilled vacancy. In February 1977 the figure stood at 12 people jobless per unfilled vacancy. The situation in February 1978- the month in which the Prime Minister predicted the situation would start to get betterthere were 17.7 unemployed people for every unfilled vacancy. A record number of 298,000 people were receiving unemployment benefit, resulting in a gigantic payout of over $70m in unemployment benefit in one month. 
It is not just the crime of unemployment against which we should be fighting; it is the enormous waste of resources as seen from the unemployment benefits paid out for the month of February. The studies carried out by concerned groups outside the Parliament show that the above figures will lead to an increase in the number of unemployables as the unemployed people lose confidence in themselves. Employers regard the long term unemployed person as having something wrong with him. Some of the people concerned will stop trying to find jobs and will become less inclined to work. The effects of long term unemployment find their way through to all members of a family. Also, we are living at a time when thousands of young people are being forced back to school. The Parliament does not know the number of people involved in this regard but should know it. In 1976 the National Youth Council of Australia, in its submissions to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, stated that 9,400 persons returned to school because they could not find suitable jobs after leaving school at the end of 1975. This situation increases costs in terms of school personnel and becomes a burden for the individuals themselves. As I said earlier, there are substantial groups who carry a far greater burden than any other groups. In this area we have the migrants and the handicapped. Those people are least able to afford it. For many of them unemployment will mean living in poverty. 
The report of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty showed that the majority of these unemployed people had little or no buffer against any potential financial crisis. Sixty-seven per cent of the people surveyed had cash savings and other liquid assets of less than $50. Only 2 1 per cent had resources of over $200. Twenty-one per cent had outstanding debts of more than $1,000, and a further 16 per cent had debts of between $500 and $ 1,000. 1 hope that from those very brief comments concerning item 2 of the proposed terms of reference honourable members will see that there is a case for the establishment of this committee. 
Let us look now at the social implications of permanent large-scale unemployment. Here I reply upon much of the research work carried out by the Australian Council of Social Service. According to its investigations, the reaction of most unemployed people includes financial stress, depression, boredom, lack of confidence and loss of self-respect. Financial stress and deterioration in adults will produce pressing singular effects that will increase mounting psychological disturbance and add to their physical illness. There is a growing body of evidence that shows that deteriorating mental health is closely related to unemployment. The main dramatic indicator of the relationship between job insecurity and stress is the suicide rate. A study carried out in 1975-76 by the Victorian Mental Health Authority in Ballarat and Dandenong showed extreme results. In Ballarat the attempted suicide rate of unemployed over the two-year study period 1975-76 was 278.8 per 10,000 people-one person in 30, more than 12 times the average area rate of 22.1 attempted suicides per 10,000. The incidence in Dandenong was 117.3 per 10,000- one person in 85, more than seven times the average area incidence of 17.7. A further study conducted in the Western suburbs of Sydney showed that about 50 per cent of those people attempting suicide were unemployed people between 15 and 25 years of age. This may be the most dramatic but it is certainly not the final point that has to be made in relation to the impact of unemployment upon our society. 
Family stability is threatened. Both here and overseas investigations show a correlation between the increase in crime and unemployment. These matters are of enormous importance to a parliament making the laws governing the life style of our people and they should be under constant and thorough investigation by the law makers, in this case the Parliament of Australia. We also ask, in our proposed terms of reference (4), (5) and (6), that the Parliament look at ideas to put people back into the work force, which have been put into operation overseas and that could be adopted under Australian conditions. This is not the only country facing this crisis but it seems to be the only one intent on doing nothing about it. 
When the Summit of Western leaders met in London recently, the first item on its agenda was unemployment. Western Europe and North America are adopting job creation programs. Each of those countries has accepted that it is embarking on a long term program and that it will require a completely new set of rules as far as manpower planning is concerned. In a recent report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development it was accepted that in order to solve the problem of youth unemployment special measures need to be taken or else its growth will continue for years to come. Measures taken to reduce youth unemployment cover a wide area. The following are some of them: 
The introduction of incentives for the creation and maintenance of jobs for young people in the private sector. In this connection the role of small and middle sized enterprises was emphasised. 
The creation of jobs in the public sector in response to urgent social needs in fields such as health, adult education, environment protection and social services. 
Public support for local community projects outside traditional public structures. 
Measures designed to develop various forms of training including apprenticeships, both in enterprises and institutions. 
The reinforcement of established information, counselling and placement services. 
Special measures to help young people enter working life, including paid and unpaid working experience. 
Measures affecting the size of the labour force, such as extended education, paid educational leave or flexible retirement. 
In addition to those measures, in many OECD countries there are subsidised forms of employment in the private sector, either to maintain or to create jobs. In several countries the amount of the gross subsidy is the same as the unemployment benefit that would otherwise have been paid. In most countries the well known practice is to pay subsidies only to young people who have been out of work for a certain time. The Canadian Government introduced recently a works program financing projects lasting up to 52 weeks. Those projects were chosen for their potential effect in reducing cyclical, seasonal, regional or local unemployment. The program aims to utilise the management resources of local organisations or project sponsors. Even more recently it has been reported that the Danish Government plans to create more job vacancies for young people by paying workers over 60 years of age large salaries for retiring early. The proposal, aimed at reducing Denmark's 200,000 unemployed, is being put to the Parliament this week. That Government proposes to introduce a salary based on a sliding scale until the worker reaches the pensionable age of 67 years. 
There is another matter at which a committee such as the one we are proposing should look, and that deals with the decisions being made in various board rooms around Australia on whether Australian industry should stay in Australia or in fact be taken off-shore. About 50 industries in Australia over the past five years have been attracted solely to Indonesia. They include firms such as Repco Ltd, Dunlop Australia Ltd, Midford Products Pty Ltd, Sola International Pty Ltd, Australian National Industries Ltd, Thyer Rubber Co. Pty Ltd, Consolidated Metal Products Ltd, Sidney Cooke Ltd,-- 
As the Minister interjects- we could expect that- the sole cry of the people opposite is that it is the wage structure of Australia that attracts those companies away from Australia. The 196 companies that have gone offshore have been surveyed. It may be news to the Minister that only 8.5 per cent of those companies gave that as their reason for going offshore. The largest majority of the companies gave as their reason the enormous investment attractions that are being offered by the host countries. Whatever the case may be, time does not allow me to go through the whole range of matters at which such a committee as that which we are proposing could look. 
As I said at the outset, this is not a cheap political trick being put forward by the Opposition. The Government has no case for not establishing a parliamentary committee to look at unemployment. We have a long term problem while the Government refuses to act. We have massive social problems for which the Government has to take responsibility. The Opposition puts forward this constructive proposal for the Parliament to adopt. I sincerely hope that members opposite when given the opportunity to vote on this matter will cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Port Adelaide moving forthwith that in the opinion of the House a royal commission should be established to inquire into and report upon the matters raised by the honourable member for Fadden in the Parliament today concerning the redistribution of Commonwealth electoral boundaries in Queensland in 1977 and other related matters. 

 Mr Speaker, I do not think that the - 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
Just a minute,  Mr Speaker.  I thought the motion was that I be not further heard. 
Oh, no. Break it up. 
We will try, but we did not elect the  Speaker. 
I withdraw and apologise. 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
Those of that opinion say Aye, to the contrary No, I think the Ayes have it. Is a division required? 

 Opposition members-Yes. 

Question put- 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-The Opposition is not satisfied with the first statement made by  Mr Robinson  on Friday, 7 April, or indeed the statement he has made tonight in the Parliament in relation to the allegations made against him by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron).  This whole affair, which involves no fewer than four members of this House, the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the honourable member for Fadden, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the former honourable member for Capricornia has a smell about it that can only be removed by an inquiry which is initiated by this Parliament and carries the confidence of this Parliament. 
The Minister,  Mr Robinson,  has attempted to throw a blanket denial over a series of allegations which demand specific answers. The Government should treat this matter with the utmost seriousness if it too is to avoid charges of collusion. If the honourable members who believe that undue influence was exerted on the Queensland electoral commissioners are proved correct the Minister,  Mr Robinson,  should resign immediately. If, on the other hand, these serious charges, which contain an allegation of a criminal act against the Minister, are disproved by an inquiry, then the honourable members so involved should resign. 
The Parliament is responsible to discharge its affairs in such a manner as will provide justice for the parties involved and, in so doing, retain the confidence of the people in the parliamentary system. This issue which is before the Parliament tonight is a very unique occurrence. We have, in one or many forms, allegations which have been raised by members of the Liberal Party against a Minister of the Liberal Party. It has to be recorded that there is not one charge that has been raised by this side of the House. This side of the House has become involved because of allegations which have been made specifically in the House. 
I also raise the point that we are not in this House with the privileges of a member of the Liberal Party or of the National Country Party or of the Australian Labor Party, but rather as members of the House of Representatives. The charges and allegations which are made against the Minister are very serious and cannot be overcome in the manner in which that has been attempted here tonight. In fact, had not the Opposition on Friday last pressured the Government, there would have been no discussion in this Parliament at all on this extremely important issue. The Minister, in a personal explanation on Friday last, made a statement to the House that he would not discuss the matter in the Parliament; that he had indeed issued a statement to the Press. The statement to the Press comprises four paragraphs, in which he says that he is not guilty of the allegations. 
In addition, by virtue of the actions of the Opposition in the Parliament on Friday last, the Government was forced to table an opinion of the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in relation to this issue. The Government had been moved itself to use its own offices, including one of its colleagues, to take the matter further, but after the matter had been taken further, and after the honourable member for Fadden had been informed of the findings of the Solicitor-General and the Attorney-General, he not only restated the charges but also increased the charges and allegations against the Minister. In that he has been joined, of course, by the charges which have been made against the commissioners by the honourable member for Lilley, in statements made to this Parliament last year. 
The honourable member for Bowman was involved in the statement made by the honourable member for Fadden, and as there has been no personal explanation dissociating him from that statement one has to reach the conclusion that the honourable member Bowman does not disagree with the statements that have been made by the honourable member for Fadden. It is not now just an inquiry that is being sought into the role of the Minister. Charges are also being made about the role of the commissioners. An inquiry also has to be made into that. So we must have it clear- the allegations against the Minister are being made by honourable members on his own side and not by honourable members who have just come into the House. The honourable member for Fadden and the honourable member for Lilley have between them a quarter of a century of service in the Parliament. Each has served as an officer of this Parliament. They are not new caps to the House of Representatives, and they have raised very serious questions about the role of the Minister in the Queensland electoral redistribution. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the first Press release by the Minister on Friday last. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Minister for Finance, the  Hon.  Eric Robinson, today refuted unreservedly the allegations made by the Member for Fadden,  Mr D.  M. Cameron, that he had in any way sought to influence the Electoral Commissioners during the redistribution of Federal Electorates in Queensland last year. 

 Mr Robinson said that he had never personally sought or made representations with a view to influencing the independent deliberations of the Electoral Commissioners nor had he sought directly or indirectly to influence others so to act. 

 Mr Robinson said that he had assured the Prime Minister in unequivocal terms that there was no basis to the allegations. 

 Mr Robinson said that this denial reconfirms the comments he made earlier this year in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  and the Members for Bowman, Fadden and Lilley. 
We are not satisfied with events to date. Let me take honourable members back to 30 March and to a Press release by the honourable member for Fadden in which he said: 
Yes, a meeting did take place with the Prime Minister in mid- January and there were five others present. Proposals for a police or judicial inquiry were discussed and rejected . . . 
At the level of the Prime Minister this matter has been discussed. A judicial inquiry was discussed before the further allegations were made to this Parliament on Friday last. There can be no more serious charge than that any honourable member, particularly a Minister, has used his influence with the electoral commissioners to save his soul and behead some of his colleagues in passing. So the idea of a judicial inquiry did not initially come from this side of the House. The concept of a judicial inquiry came from the Minister's colleagues. One would have thought that the Minister and the Commonwealth electoral officers of Queensland would have welcomed a judicial inquiry to clear their names, because there can be no clearing by the statements which were made by the Minister on Friday last and again tonight. There is no mention, in the Press releases of the Minister, of most of the charges which have been made against him. 
I remind honourable members of section 22 of the Electoral Act which states: 
Except as provided by section eighteen A of this Act or by the last preceding section, a person shall not, by writing sent to a Distribution Commissioner, or by word spoken to or in the presence of a Distribution Commissioner, seek to influence the Commissioner in the performance of his duties under this Act. 
In the opinion given by the Attorney-General and in the statement made by the SolicitorGeneral, it is stated that: 
Although it may be difficult to say that offence-creating provisions such as section 170 apply to section 22 of the Act, we do not doubt that a breach of this section is likely to give rise to criminal liability . . . 
The charges, the allegations, are extremely serious. I also seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard,  if the Minister sees fit, the whole of the statements made by the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General which were provided to this House and tabled last Friday. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Prime Minister 
Electoral Redistribution of Queensland 
The Attorney-General has discussed our Advice to you with  Mr Cameron. Mr Cameron  emphasised to the Attorney the importance he attaches to the fact that  Mr Teulan  's map (which  Mr Cameron  has recently seen) is considerably closer to the Commissioners' Determination than any of the documents officially before them. In particular it resembles the Determination in its treatment of the Beenleigh subdivision in relation to the present seat of Fadden and in this respect differs from the Liberal Party Submission and, as we understand him, all others. 
This feature of the Teulan Map strengthens  Mr Cameron  's belief that this map in fact was before the Commissioners, and improperly so, and  Mr Cameron  contends, since one copy of it was given to  Mr Robinson,  suggests that he improperly gave it to the Commissioners for party political purposes. 
Nevertheless the Commissioners inclusion of Beenleigh in the new Fadden is an obvious enough step. Once the boundaries of the new Mcpherson were settled, the inclusion of Beenleigh within the new seat constituted in a substantial part by what remained of the old Mcpherson is to us both logical and sensible. That the Commissioners in this regard departed from the submissions does not render their conclusion any the less sound. Such a choice is one which the Act clearly empowers them as experts to take. 
But irrespective of the above considerations, the degree of resemblance between  Mr Teulan  's map and the Commissioners Determination, whether considered alone or with all the other factors relied on by  Mr Cameron,  is quite clearly incapable of supporting an inference that the map was improperly communicated to them or that they, whether improperly or not, acted on it. 
We remain firmly of the opinion that the matters raised neither require nor warrant Government action. 
-Let us have a look at the most recent statement by the honourable member for Fadden, because all this has taken place since the honourable member for Fadden was given the opportunity, along with the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Bowman, to discuss this matter with the Minister against whom these allegations have been made, and with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and with the responsible Minister, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  As recorded at page 12 19 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 7 April 1978, the honourable member for Fadden said: 
. I inform the House of a conversation with a very senior Queenslander in this place early last year. He informed me that he had been subjected to an approach in regard to Queensland's third Commissioner. He told me that he was - 
The following words are in inverted commas in the  Hansard-  not going to have a bar of them having their lingers in the redistribution'. No honourable member needs to be reminded how sensitive a subject this is to members of the House of Representatives. 
That is not an allegation in third hand. The honourable member for Fadden was saying that the Minister told him personally that he was not going to have a bar of the Electoral Commissioners having their fingers in the electoral redistribution of Queensland. That is the quote out of  Hansard  in relation to the honourable member for Fadden being told this by a senior Minister in Queensland. Again I quote the honourable member for Fadden 's words: 
It was perhaps during June and most definitely at the latest early July that I heard how the Commissioners allegedly had been informed that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  was dispensable in this redistribution. 
Let us just remember how early that was and when the Electoral Commissioners were appointed. The honourable member for Bowman obviously believed it. He has not taken any opportunity since Friday, after the statement was made, to deny that he did not have any knowledge of the situation. Again and again, the honourable member for Fadden quoted into the  Hansard  record what the senior Minister said; that is, that he was 'not going to have a bar of them having their fingers in the redistribution'. The honourable member for Fadden said: 
By early August reports were rife that one of the Commissioners had been so disenchanted with the way the redistribution had been carried out that for two days he refused to sign the report. 
So for two days everybody in Queensland apparently believed that one of the Commissioners refused to sign the report. The honourable member for Fadden continued:   . . the senior Queenslander, after I raised the matter of the Commissioner's reluctance, snapped back saying: 'But he signed the final report, did't he? ' 
What was going on in Queensland with this redistribution? I should have thought that all honourable members opposite would want to know whether in fact a senior Minister had used his position in order to survive as best he could. As the honourable member for Lilley told Parliament in November last, Ministers are usually not affected by redistribution. Electoral Commissioners have the political sense to leave Ministers alone. I suggest that we look at what the honourable members for Lilley had to say in October of last year. He told the Parliament:   no Ministers are even in danger. Their seats are never put at risk. They are never significantly disadvantaged in a redistribution. 
He went on:  lt is a widely know fact in that State that the nonCommonwealth officer has been desperately unhappy about what occurred in the redistribution. That has been made known to people. It is known to honourable members in this place- honourable members who are not scheduled to speak- and it is not known indirectly. It is quite clear that one of the Commissioners felt that the minds of the other Commissioners were not open in respect of the redistribution and he desperately considered making a minority report. 
The honourable member for Fadden is joined by quite a senior member in this House, the honourable member for Lilley, in saying that the Commissioners did not have an open mind about the redistribution in Queensland and that the third member was very unhappy about what had occurred. 
Let me go on with what the honourable member for Lilley said- and I think here we have the essence of the real problem about the Queensland redistribution: 
In south-east Queensland, the Commissioners made a change. They changed the electorate of the Gold Coast to the electorate of McPherson and changed the electorate of Mcpherson to the electorate of Fadden. I am fascinated as to what caused them to make those changes. I say to the House: I am totally convinced they acted on evidence other than that presented to them in public documents. 
As every honourable member from Queensland knows, the changing of the name of a seat can be political dynamite. Everybody in this House knows or should know about the arrangements that are made between the National Party and the Liberal Party and who is going to have contestants against them, depending on the name of their seat. The Commissioners took the role of Parliament in changing the name of the seat of the Gold Coast back to the seat of McPherson. That is the role of the Parliament. The Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  said in the Senate, when questioned on this, that he did not know why the Commissioners had taken this action. But that is the essence of this dispute. In fact did the Minister use his influence on the Commissioners to retain the old seat of McPherson in order to see that he would not be opposed by a member of the National Party? Did this action mean that the Commissioners had to look upon the former honourable member for Capricornia, the honourable member for Bowman and the honourable member for the old seat of Griffith as being completely dispensable to this Parliament? 
Government supporters are not sitting in judgment on this question as members of the Liberal Party or of the National Country Party; they are sitting in judgment on this question as members of the House of Representatives. If they allow Ministers to use their influence every time there is a redistribution, they are going to be extremely sorry for the powers that they will be placing in the hands of the Executive. Those Commissioners should be treating every member of the Parliament and of the public in an honest, decent way. There is only one way in which to treat this subject- that is, by an open, judicial inquiry which will inquire into the allegations against the Minister and which will inquire into the allegations of the Commissioners who were charged with the Queensland redistribution so that we will all know, so that everybody in this Parliament will know, whether in fact that was an honest redistribution. 
I refer to the inquiry that the Prime Minister has initiated into allegations regarding the Queensland electoral redistribution. Is it the Prime Minister's intention to take the same action against the Minister for Finance as he took against the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications and present Minister for Special Trade Representations of asking him to stand down from the Ministry when an inquiry was being undertaken into allegations concerning him? 

 -Mr Speaker, there is no objection to the motion which has just been moved in relation to the sitting times of the House tomorrow. The Opposition has been agreeable to the experiment, as proposed by the Government, in relation to the House sitting four days a week for two weeks and then rising for two weeks. But the Government has now given notice, as we reach the end of this sitting week, that the House will sit on Thursday night and that means that members have to make last minute changes to their schedules. 
We realise that these sorts of things are likely to happen. We are trying to co-operate with the Government in getting some sensible and more sane sitting hours for the Parliament, but we hope that the notice just given by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  amounting only to about 48 hours, does not become a regular feature. People have made arrangements to attend functions or meet other commitments on Thursday evening of this week. Now they have to make other arrangements because of course their first commitment is to be here in the Parliament. But I do say that we on this side of the House are trying to co-operate with the Government in trying to bring about more rational and sensible sitting hours of the Parliament. 
-The Opposition is not in favour of this late move proposed by the Government. The way in which the Parliament is being used is completely unacceptable to the Opposition. We will not have a bar of it and we will not co-operate with this sort of proposition. 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I also wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, although not necessarily consciously,  Mr Speaker.  I just wish to place the record straight. Yesterday during Question Time I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in essence whether he would take the same action against the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  as was taken against the then Minister for Post and Telecommunications early in 1976 when inquiries into allegations concerning that Minister were undertaken. The Prime Minister in his answer said: 
The honourable gentleman - 
He was referring to me- apparently is unable to remember what he said last night. 
I, like many other honourable members, was a little confused by the Prime Minister who apparently hung his answer on a statement I made to the House the previous night which is reported on page 1307 of  Hansard.  I said: 
If the honourable members who believe that undue influence was exerted on the Queensland electoral commissioners are proved correct the Minister,  Mr Robinson,  should resign immediately. 

 Mr Speaker, I wish to point out that what I said was meant to represent that I believed  Mr Robinson  should resign from the Parliament if the claims were proved and it had nothing at all to do with the belief held' by honourable members on this side of the House that  Mr Robinson  should be subject to the same discipline as was  Mr Garland. 
-This censure motion dealing with the car industry has been developed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  into a debate on the acceptance or otherwise of the State Government of 
South Australia. I must say that if my name were Ian Cameron Bonython Wilson I would also be a little disturbed about a Labor government in South Australia. The Australian Labor Party does not have to rebut the statements made about the Government of South Australia. The electorate of South Australia does that very convincingly every three years when a substantial number of South Australians overwhelmingly return the Dunstan Government to administer that State. We do have a very good lifestyle in South Australia. For 1 3 years- after the next election it will be 16 years- the Dunstan Government has given South Australians a lifestyle which I believe is superior to the lifestyle of people in any other part of Australia, especially those who have to live under the regime in Queensland. 
This is an extremely interesting debate. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has introduced a censure motion dealing with the Government's concern that someone should say something about the car industry which in one way or another may be interpreted to mean that the car industry is not going all that well and that the Government may have to take further action in relation to the industry. We should all be shocked and surprised that a leading politician in this country should say something about one of the major employers in Australia. There are very few bigger employers in Australia than in the automotive and associated industries. But we are all to remain silent about them. No one is to say anything about them. The National Country Party can bleat all day about the beef industry and Government supporters can do all they like for the lawyers and doctors but we on this side of the House are not to say anything at all for the employees of the automotive and associated industries. A very strange- although it is becoming quite traditional- attitude is taken by the media in this country to whoever holds the position of Leader of the Opposition or Leader of the Australian Labor Party. For ten years the monopolised media in this country utilised its enormous power, a power not allowed in any other country, to try to destroy one of the finest politicians in this country- Gough Whitlam. Now they have started on Bill Hayden. Bill Hayden raises a question about the future of the car industry. All of a sudden Rupert Murdoch locked up in New York and Warwick Fairfax sitting out on Double Bay with his quarter of a million dollars handout from John Fairfax and Co. become very disturbed, because Bill Hayden asked the question. It does not matter whether anybody on the Government side of the House raises the matter. 
The honourable member for Sturt talked about the car industry. There have been so many plans for the car industry that those of us who have been here long enough are getting dizzy from talking about it. The honourable member for Kingston said in one of his strange statements that the car industry does not want anything to do with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and that it has completely debarred any further discussion with him. I carry with me this week an invitation from Chrysler Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Ltd to shadow spokesmen on this side of the House, together with the Leader of the Opposition, to meet with the management to talk about the future of the car industry. Things are going on in the car industry about which employees and the Opposition in this Parliament are entitled to know. We are not going to be made silent by the honourable member for Chrysler coming in here and asking that we carry a motion of censure against the Leader of the Opposition for discussing an industry that has as its responsibility the employment of something like 100,000 people. We are talking about an industry that at the moment is producing a smaller number of vehicles than it did two years ago. On the figures that were predicted two years ago, the Australian car industry would have 80 per cent of a market of something like 620,000 units in 1978. That is small enough by world standards. A few years ago there would have been three manufacturers splitting up 80 per cent of 620,000 vehicles. Today, because of the Government's car plan we will have in Australia five manufacturers producing 80 per cent, not of 620,000 units, but according to Chrysler's predictions 530,000 units. So the total domestic market is getting smaller and an increased number of manufacturers is coming into the field to supply the Australian domestic market. Obviously it is a ground for trouble. It is the ground for trouble in the original plan that was adopted. 
I say again that to have such a small domestic market with the number of manufacturers that has now been invited under the protective umbrella of the Australian scheme is a recipe for problems. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has said, all the problems have not been thrashed out and there will be greater trouble unless the Government sits down and is honest with all the industry and with all the representatives of the employees. For this statement, the newspaper proprietors and the Government go almost insane. They say: 'How dare you say anything about the motor industry? You can talk about the neutron bomb or the beef industry or anything you like but do not start speculation about the car industry'. 
Just two and a half weeks ago a representative group of nine employees came to Canberra to meet  Mr Lynch. Mr Lynch  was very good; he gave them an hour and a half in which to discuss the problems of Chrysler. The main objection of the employees of Chrysler is that they are being left out in the dark. They do not know what will happen. Chrysler used to work with 4,500 employees. Now it is working with 2,500 employees. 
They want to know what is going on. This is the way in which the multinationals operate. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is quite right. The Australian people are just strung along by the way these people operate. Chrysler Australia says: We cannot tell you, we are not involved; it is Chrysler Detroit with Mitsubishi which is involved'. So the people in Detroit are talking with the people in Tokyo about what will happen to the people who live in Adelaide. Now we are not supposed to say anything in the National Parliament about it. Honourable members opposite can sit around playing the role of the mute on these questions but they can rest assured that we are going to speak out on the questions which are alive- the political and industrial questions which are of major consequence to the people of Australia. 
We think that it is only decent that the companies involved, Chrysler and Mitsubishi, should tell not only the employees but also the Australian Government- and the Australian Government should make it clear to everybody in Australia- what will happen. No single attitude has been adopted by the car industry. If we talk to  Sir Brian  Inglis or Ian Webber or the people from the various industries, they will all give us their lines. There are five manufacturers and they will adopt on occasions five separate lines towards the industry. We cannot sit down and talk on the basis of one group attitude. Nissan and Toyota, the latest additions to the car plan, have a totally different attitude to what they want of Australia than does GMH and Ford. Chrysler is somewhere in between. 
We know, as does everybody who examines the car industry, that changes will have to be made. But why should we make the workers of Chrysler, Ford or GMH the sacrificial lambs? 
The honourable member for Kingston asks why the workers in the car industry are asking for more money. He says they are only causing industrial unrest. 
It may interest members of the national Parliament to know- these things are sometimes a little foreign to us- that when the Leader of the Opposition, Bill Hayden, and I visited Ford two weeks ago, we sat around a table for a bit over an hour with 10 employees of Ford. They take home on average the magnificent sum of $135 a week; $ 1 35 a week is the average take home pay for the worker at Broadmeadows. Honourable members opposite want to know why they are putting in for pay increases. I will tell them how to understand it in the simplest possible fashion. They should give themselves $135 each week for a month on which to live and then they will understand why the employees are asking for more money. It is as simple as that. If honourable members opposite do not understand that they are only trying to draw red herrings across the path. 
The car plan in Australia at the moment is basically the umbrella- the protection and the sort of security- that the Labor Government gave the car industry. There is very little new in what this Government has done over the last two and a half years. The 85 per cent content plan is basically the Labor Government plan which was made when we rejected the Industries Assistance Commission report. In addition, the local industry is provided with 80 per cent of the market. As I have said, the important feature of that argument is that it is a diminishing market. Until such time as the people of Australia are prepared to turn their cars over more quickly, and until such time as the scrappage of new cars in Australia becomes greater, the car industry in Australia will be faced with that problem. 
How do workers in Australia on $135 a week- we are talking about thousands and thousands of workers, not just those in the car industrysit home on the weekend and discuss whether they will buy a new Ford, Holden or Valiant? The real problem that we are faced with here is buyer resistance. It is a new ingredient, a new kerb, a new problem as far as the car industry is concerned. A lot of people who used to buy new cars are now buying second hand vehicles because that is what suits their budget. We cannot maintain the quick turnover of new cars that we have had or expect the same growth rate in the car industry unless the conditions which used to prevail return. 
On the matter of the total amount that is taken home by the workers in these industries, we have a government that is continually going into the national wage case and saying that we cannot afford full wage indexation. That means that over the last two years every wage and salary earner has had a real reduction in his wages. That is reflected in the sort of consumer goods that wage and salary earners can purchase. So of course there will be problems in the car industry. The Leader of the Opposition is entitled to raise these questions. It is, as he says, his responsibility. In relation to the total picture of the car industry, why did Ford just a few weeks ago cancel its plans to build a new $80m plant at Ingleburn? It described Ingleburn as the most suitable area in which to build a car plant in Australia. Why would it cancel its plans to build at Ingleburn? Obviously it is because the Australian auto industry already has over production capacity. 
GMH and Ford are perhaps working at somewhere between 70 per cent and 80 per cent of their capacity. We do not know what Chrysler is working at but we do know that Nissan and Toyota are having difficulty in reaching 85 per cent. All that we are asking for and demanding on this side of the House is that someone who is involved in the industry that is making the decisions be honest with the people involved. That includes us, because we have a responsibility as the Opposition in the national Parliament. I repeat to honourable members who want to know why the plans for Ingleburn were cancelled, it is tied up with the total picture of the car industry. 
There is one other important aspect concerning the employment of people in the car industry. For some time during the late 1950s and 1960s we built up a substantial skill in the car industry in Australia. Many members, not only of the Vehicle Builders Union, the Metal Workers Union and other blue collar unions operating in this field, will be affected. The car industry in Australia was a good outlet for people such as draftsmen and other skilled people involved in the design of motor cars. All of that has come to an end in Australia as the organisations which control the car industry throughout the world are concentrating more and more on world models. People overseas are now being given the opportunity to design the products which Australians will have to purchase and use. Nowadays, when people are laid off in the car industry it is not just the vehicle builder, the bloke working on the assembly line or the fellow doing perhaps the tooling up, but a lot of others including white collar workers also are being laid off. The car industry is undergoing a massive transformation. The statements of the honourable member for Kingston and the honourable member for Sturt, who came in here roaring like lions and told us that the Opposition should not speak about one of the most massive employers in Australia, ought to be rejected out of hand by every thinking parliamentarian. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Chapman's)  be agreed to. 
-The Opposition indicated earlier that it had no opposition to the re-arrangement of the sittings for May and the first two days of June. However, I take the opportunity to point out that when we previously made arrangements with the Government for a four-day week we ran into considerable difficulties when it was attempted to jam the business of the Government into the final one or two days of those long four-day sittings. In trying to complete this session in the four sitting weeks we have available, the Government ought to be cognisant of the fact that the hours involved are extremely long. Only the honourable members themselves involved in this chamber realise the sorts of pressures that can be brought to bear on each individual who may be here from 9 o'clock in the morning until midnight for four days a week and then return to his electoral office only to come back here on the Sunday night ready to start another four-day week. 
In addition to the pressures that will be applied to the individual members, there is also a great desire of this side of the House that some of these very major matters upon which there is a distinct difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition be given sufficient time for a proper debate. I refer to the major debates on the environmental legislation regarding uranium mining in the Northern Territory in respect of which six Bills will come before the House. Next week taxation Bills will come before the House on which a number of honourable members will want to speak. We will not allow ourselves to be bulldozed into completing legislation in the early hours of the morning, without proper thought, as was attempted by the Government here just three weeks ago. We will continue to fight against the use of the House in the style that was used then by the Government to steamroll legislation or to legislate by exhaustion. We believe that the hours of sitting in the normal parliamentary week are long enough for honourable members to be able to pay due attention to the legislation which comes before them. 
We think that any legislation which comes in after the hours which are prescribed now by the Acting Leader of the House  (Mr Fife)  in moving this motion will only reinforce the belief that the Government indeed hopes to be able to slip through legislation without proper scrutiny by the Opposition. We do not agree to the motion reluctantly; we agree to it as a test of how the Parliament can be used in four-day sittings, but we do point out that we retain the right to scrutinise all the legislation in very proper and thorough fashion as has been the practice of the Opposition all this year. We will not allow Parliament to be used to legislate by exhaustion. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. The actions taken this morning by Chrysler demand an explanation by the Government. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-The Opposition is of the clear understanding that at the commencement of this session of Parliament arrangements were made that it would have five speakers a week on matters on public importance. Those arrangements have stood until today. The arrangements have not been broken by either side. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and I have been able to ensure that various matters have been brought before the House. Today those arrangements have been broken by the Government without any prior notice at all to the Opposition. The contention of the Acting Leader of the House  (Mr Fife),  who told me, after he had moved the motion that Government Business be brought on, that the Opposition could make up the leeway on matters of public importance throughout the rest of the week, is incorrect. If he believes that, he has been misled by whoever sends him down the notes. As far as the Opposition is concerned no arrangements now stand and as for the Acting Leader of the House, his word is dirt. 
I withdraw.  His  word cannot be taken. 
-The Opposition is opposed to this move. When the rearrangement of the sitting times of the House was dealt with, we said that we would co-operate completely with the Government in facilitating the passage of legislation through the House. But within 24 hours of that arrangement being made the Government is bundling legislation through the House, trying to legislate by exhaustion, as the Opposition predicted yesterday. The Government is unable to manage the business of the House in a manner which the Opposition and even Government members can understand. We are not going to agree to this course. After sitting here for 12 hours, we are not going to agree to sit here for another three or four hours while the Government makes everybody sufficiently tired to ensure that any legislation it wishes to have passed can be passed through this chamber. The Opposition will not meet the arrangements of the Government in this way. 
We objected to the manner in which the matter of public importance proposed yesterday was shelved by the Government. That arrangement was made just half an hour before the Government broke it. Today we had broken, again without notice, an arrangement made by the Whips that four speakers should take part in the debate on the legislation dealing with the environmental aspects of uranium mining. That debate was terminated after two speakers had made their remarks. The fact is that this Government is trying to restrict the amount of information which flows from the Parliament to the public The manner in which it is doing that- it has been doing it for weeks- is by arranging for the most controversial debates to take place on a day when the proceedings of this House are not being broadcast. A check of the record will show that the Government has brought forward for debate on Wednesdays censure motions and any other controversial legislation. Here again at half-past ten on a Thursday night the Government is trying to rearrange the business in such a fashion as to legislate by exhaustion. We will not co-operate in any way at all in adopting that method of legislating. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Minister for Defence will be aware of the great concern in the community about the Prime Minister's decision to spend $26m on the purchase of two aircraft for his own purposes to travel internationally. As the Government's case seems to be based on the fact that, for security purposes, the Prime Minister needs his own aircraft to travel overseas I ask the Minister: What was the purpose of the decision of the Prime Minister to buy two of the aircraft? 
I want to introduce a subject which is rarely raised in this House. In doing so I do not wish to denigrate in any way the serious subjects which have been raised this morning. No one in this country enjoys the wintertime more than I do in as much as I am a keen follower of both of the major football codes played in this country, rugby league and Australian rules. I have a friend at Coolangatta, John Cunningham, who had a saying: When the going gets tough, the tough get going'. I was reminded of that saying last Sunday night when I viewed a television replay of a football match between Western Suburbs and Manly- Warringah. It seemed to be more of a battlefield than a football field. It raised serious questions about the code as it is being played. Irrespective of the arguments that take place as to which is the best code, football seems to be part of our national make-up. Having been born at Manly and having shifted to South Australia I can enjoy both codes equally. I do not take part in the arguments about the merits of the respective codes but I enjoy the wintertime in as much as I am a very keen follower of ManlyWarringah and a very keen follower of Port Adelaide. Both are magnificent football teams in their respective codes. 
Many of the mothers who watched the game between Manly- Warringah and Western Suburbs must have shuddered at the thought that there was a chance that their sons would play this sport. It seemed to denigrate the game of rugby league to an extent to which many people would not be interested in watching it any further or promoting the sport. It also raised the question of the extent to which a referee can scrutinise the game. Many of the offences were quite clear to those of us who observed the game on television and obviously to the rugby league authorities who watched it subsequently because they have taken action against certain players. This action sometimes cannot be taken during the game. 
To a large extent this problem has been overcome by the two-umpire rule in Australian rules whereby the game comes under closer scrutiny. The viciousness with which the game was played last Sunday has been eradicated to a large extent from Australian rules. It will have to be eradicated from rugby league if it is to remain a major sport in this country, which I hope it will do. It is a fine spectacle and first class teams compete but no one in their wildest dreams could describe the match last Sunday as being a fine game of rugby. It seemed that a number of the people who were participating in that game were intent on seeing that their opposite numbers did not play again this season. I think that up to date something like five people from that match have been suspended for a number of weeks. Action will have to be taken on the day of the match. 
This matter raises the question of whether the codes might have to sink their differences- I talk now not only about rugby league and Australian rules authorities but also the soccer authoritiesto see what can be done in a uniform manner to see that violence is taken off the field of football. It is not in the interests of those people participating to spend all the summer months getting fit to take part in a sport when in their first game they can be put out for the rest of the season. It is rather ironic that a person who is put out by virtue of some action that is taken against him by another player can be injured for the rest of the season while the person who took the action perhaps is suspended for two matches. Any person who takes an action on a football field that puts another player out for the rest of the season should also be out for the rest of the season. In this way perhaps the football field can be cleaned up. 
Both sports have had some fine representatives. I recall having watched Manly- Warringah as a youth and seeing people the late Bert Collins, Mackie Campbell, Roy Bull and Ken Arthurson who were great footballers and I enjoyed watching the sport immensely. Today in watching the best footballers in Australian rules one sees that they are subjected to enormous attention. I notice from the newspapers that Keith Greig of North Melbourne said that he will have to take greater care to protect himself. He is a bloke who has won two medals, but obviously when people go out to play against him they feel that some action has to be taken to reduce his effect and his influence on the game. The same can be said for many other players. I noticed that the half-back for Manly- Warringah last Sunday came in for some special treatment. He is five or six stone lighter than some of the players who were playing in the forwards for Western Suburbs. Action has to be taken. Obviously we would support the authorities taking action to see that violence is eradicated from the sport. 
The Minister said that they have been saying this for 100 years. I do not know whether he came in for any special attention when he was playing- whether his brilliance warranted it. But I recognise the fact that he was a league player and knows a bit about the game. Most of the brilliant footballers of course are able to take care of themselves merely through their brilliance in the sport. But some of them are subjected to very special attention which is not warranted and which is not part of the game. One can only guess at the feeling between the two clubs involved and the crowd that watched the game last Sunday and what will be the attitude next time Manly and Wests play. Some people may go along to see whether the match will turn out to be the blood sport that they anticipate and some may go along in the expectation that the two teams, which are top teams in the Sydney code this year, are able to play the game in a manner that their expertise demands. As a keen follower I sincerely hope so. 
-The honourable member for Kingston intervenes. I notice that his team has been relegated in the last couple of weeks, as has his reputation on motor cars. I raise this subject because it has been the subject of some discussion on our side of the House. We have a lot of members from the western suburbs of Sydney. I think the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  is the representative of the Western Suburbs area. I ask him to go to the Western Suburbs club and to see that the next game between Western Suburbs and Manly is played fairly so that those of us who have a little enjoyment from the sport between parliamentary sittings can continue to enjoy these two great codes. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment (Federal Court of Australia) Bill 1978, the essence of which is to provide that further matters under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be dealt with by a single judge with the right of appeal to a Full Court comprising three or more judges. Whilst this matter certainly would warrant discussion, as does any amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, were the Parliament acting in the knowledge of agreement having been reached outside by employers and employees, this measure would certainly have the support of the whole Parliament. The amendment of such legislation, as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said in his second reading speech, is a measure which will provide the proper utilisation of the resources of the Court. I am sure that many of the parties appearing before the Court would agree with the suggestion. I point out that the Opposition views with utmost seriousness any amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act because of the integral role the Act plays in industrial relations in Australia. But I must say that one of the shortcomings of the presentation of this amending legislation is that although the Minister indicated that these proposals had been put before the National Labour Consultative Council we have no indication, either from the NLCC, which does not make its decisions public, or the Minister, as to whether agreement was reached on the matter. I believe that the Parliament should be cognisant of the attitudes of both employers and employees to legislation of this nature coming before the Parliament. Then the 
NLCC, to carry out its functions properly, should make Parliament aware of any decision it makes on such matters. 
The advantages of the use of three or more judges on cases that could validly be heard by a single judge are all too obvious not to warrant support. I shall give some examples provided by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which I have in mind when I make this statement. On 1 December 1976 in the case of Saint v Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union and others the applicant sought orders under section 140 that a rule of the Union under which an office was abolished was contrary to section 133 (1) (f) of the Act. The Industrial Court held that there was a difference between between an office altogether and dismissing a person from office when that office is to continue, and that an office might be abolished at any time provided such abolition was effected in accordance with the rules. 
On 9 June 1977, in the case of Johns v Allen and others the applicant sought orders under section 141 that a person purportedly elected to the office of 'organiser' in the Geelong sub-branch of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation not be treated as holding office on the grounds that the rules made no provision for such office. After consideration of the rules of the organisation and the relevant provision of the Act and regulations the Federal Court held that, quite clearly, the rules contained no provision for such office and the sub-branch had no power to create the office. On 13 February 1977 in the case of Campbell v Gorman the applicant sought orders under section 141 that a conviction for an offence against the rules be treated as null and void. The Federal Court found that the charge for the offence under the rules was not determined in accordance with the rules and amounted to a denial of natural justice. Notes on two other cases have been made available to me which I consider ought to be in  Hansard.  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  notes on the cases Hassett v Harding and others and Roots v Mutton and others. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Hassett v Harding and others (29 September, 1976). The applicant sought orders under section 141 that the committee of management of the Tasmanian branch of the TWU had ceased to exist on the grounds that two members of the committee of management had resigned, thereby leaving the committee of management incapable of forming a quorum. The Industrial Court found that the notices of resignation were not given in the manner required by the rules and were therefore ineffective. The matter involved a straight forward application of the rules. 
Roots v Mutton and others (23 March, 1978). The applicant sought orders that his suspension under the rules of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union be treated as null and void. The Federal Court found that the rule under which the applicant was suspended had not been validly adopted in accordance with the rule making procedures under the rules and was therefore invalid. This case simply involved a determination of facts. 
As the Minister has pointed out, in State jurisdictions matters of a similar nature in the first instance would be dealt with by magistrates. However, the Government has seen fit to make sure that matters of law in particular are always subject to a hearing by three or more judges. Nevertheless it seems to us that there may well be a case for disputes involving other sections of the Act going automatically to a hearing before three or more judges. I refer sub.sequently to sections 140 and 141 to enforce or challenge the validity of the rules of an organisation. In these cases it may merely prolong the course of litigation and increase the cost to the parties if the case is heard by a single judge, especially where the litigation was inspired by a factional dispute in a union. It would seem that it is not in the interest of any party or the court to have these matters prolonged. I look forward to the Minister's explanation of this matter when we go into the Committee stages of the Bill. 
Cases under other sections of the Act have been exempted from hearing by a single judge. We agree with that entirely. The right of appeal may well be the yardstick by which these amendments succeed or fail. However, the Opposition is not entirely happy with the way in which the Bill is framed. Firstly, the Government is putting forward in relation to section 1S8P and Part IX of the Act that there would be no right of appeal. The area of concern in relation to section 1 58P is that there are to be inquiries into alleged irregularities in amalgamation ballots, and in relation to Part IX, inquiries into alleged irregularities into elections in organisations. The Minister makes the point that proceedings of this nature involve only determination of matters of fact which are not complex and that further litigation would be likely to be factionally motivated and should be discouraged. To me, that seems to be an over-simplification as to why there should be some restriction of access to the Court. In addition to that proposition put by the Government, and aided by the argument that there has never been an inquiry into an amalgamation ballot, the Government appears to be legislating by chance rather than by rationale. We say in both cases there ought to be the right of appeal, and indeed there should be the right of appeal from a single judge decision to a court of three or more judges in all cases. 
To a large extent factions in trade unions are born out of the very nature of a free trade union movement. Thus free trade unions as such are enormously important in the make-up of Australian society. We would be deluding ourselves if we believed there was a recipe for legislating factions within trade unions or, as in this case, using factions as an excuse to further what we consider to be a bad principle. However, it is the policy of our Party that only matters of law should be subject to a hearing by the High Court and matters of an industrial nature should remain within the confines of the industrial division of the Federal Court. We would be against any blending of the industrial division of the Federal Court with the general division of that Court which could lead to far less expertise being available to deal with industrial matters of such critical nature. 
As I said at the outset, this Bill could have been a simple measure attracting the support of everybody in the House, yet for reasons best known to itself the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has continued on its way of writing amendments into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act furthering the role of the Minister. I refer here of course to section 1 1 8C ( 1 ) (b) which provides that the Minister can have referral powers over and above the powers granted to the parties to the proceedings. There seems to be absolutely no justification for this provision except that it follows the line set down in earlier legislation by this Government to give the Minister an interventionist role in industrial relations. In 1976 sections 34 and 36A, and in 1977 sections 109 and 143, were amended. We can see other examples of the philosophy of this Government in interpreting the role of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. We find the manner in which this has been done curious to say the least. In his second reading speech in reference to the new section, the Minister said: 
I would not envisage many circumstances in which the Minister would make use of this provision. However, it does provide a remedy for a situation in which the parties  did not seek a reference and such a reference was desirable in the public interest. 
Again the Minister uses in his defence of this provision the role of factions within the trade union movement. One can hardly envisage factions of any organisation not seeking a reference to a Full Court. Indeed, it has been the history of factions to exploit the courts to the very 'nth' degree. I have grave suspicions about what the Government has in mind in relation to the Minister. I use this opportunity to point out to employee and employer organisations that the role of the 
Government has been written into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in such a way that come the day when the Government feels secure enough to implement its powers industrial relations will have a different course from the one that they have traditionally charted. I would be extremely surprised, indeed amazed, if employee organisations in particular ever agreed to such proposed legislation. 
-I wish to make mention of two matters. In respect of one the Labor Party has a very clear policy, that is, the right of appeal from a single judge to a court of three or more judges. As I said earlier, proposed section 118b (a), which restricts the right of appeal, serves as a grey area in what otherwise would have been a Bill that would have attracted the support of the whole Parliament. It is something to which the Labor Movement almost totally is opposed. I believe that it brings into disrepute the essence of the Bill, which seeks to utilise the resources of the Federal Court of Australia in a more meaningful way. That objective does have our support but we cannot support the restrictions in regard to it. 
In regard to the role of the Minister, there can be no doubt, irrespective of the views of the National Labour Consultative Council, which may not be released publicly, that the trade union movement, the Labor movement generally, is opposed to the way in which the Minister is being written into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Minister attends those meetings and he would be aware that he should not try to camouflage the action taken by the Government of again writing into legislation a provision relating to the Minister by saying that there are some powerful institutions. Most of the powerful responsible institutions with which the Minister deals as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations are not only opposed to the idea but also have advised him accordingly. The Minister would know from his experience over the last couple of years that the best work that can be done by a Minister is not through the courts at all. In fact, if one may say so, the most beneficial actions taken by the present Minister have been outside the courts and outside formalities. Those actions have brought about the sorts of results which one would tend to think should have been the guide to what we should be doing in this Parliament. 
There are grave doubts in the labour movement about what the Government is attempting to do. Every time it amends the Conciliation and Arbitration Act it gives a further role to the Minister. We receive very little comfort from the guarantee that the Minister does not envisage this power being used very often. That may be said in relation to the number of ways in which the role of the Minister is being written. We are not talking specifically about one case. What we are talking about is the different course the Government is charting in the role it plays in industrial relations- a course which is away from what has been traditionally the case. The Government cannot legislate to meet every single incident that is likely to crop up in industrial relations. One cannot achieve a perfect recipe in industrial relations. 
I suggest to the Minister that he ought to heed the words of the responsible who make up the vast majority of people in the labour movement and not be cognisant of the actions of the minority upon whom this legislation is based. I suggest in all seriousness that this role of the Minister is a bad thing for industrial relations in Australia and one cannot predict what it might bring in the future if the Government continues on a similar course. 
-The Opposition supports the legislation in as much as the Bills are a first step to upgrade the Commonwealth Employment Service. But the shortcomings are obvious and I hope step by step to be able to go through them, and indicate to the Government the thinking on this side of the House in relation to a properly constructed Commonwealth Employment Service, structured in such a way that it can efficiently meet with the demands made upon it by employers and employees alike. 
Considering Australia's experience over the past 30 years, one would have expected that a government today, in 1978, would have had many more ideas, and would have been prepared to devote a great deal more of this country's resources when dealing with the Commonwealth Employment Service. When comparing the governmental activity concerning this matter at the end of World War II, with the Bill introduced by the Minister for Employment and 
Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  last week, it makes today's Government's measure look shabby by comparison. The Government may well ask, if these are the views of the Opposition, why then in fact are we supporting the Bill. It is, as I said, a first step. The Labor Party will give the Government every co-operation required to update these services. There will be no hurdle placed in the path of the Government at all in dealing with these matters. 
So our judgment was based upon a very simple question: Is it better than the existing CES operation or is it worse? The decision of the Labor Party is that the measure is marginally better. 
There is one point I should like to make, however, before entering into the main stream of this debate, and that is directed at the people who have serviced the Commonwealth Employment Service in recent years. When one looks at the unemployment rate between 1950 to 1978 with very minor exceptions in recent times, there is an obvious pattern of Australia's good fortune in having a very low proportion of its work force unemployed. One could understand, then, that the politicians, academics, public servants had cast the Commonwealth Employment Service offices in the role of the not too important. It has only been the most recent impact of a world recession which has demanded the focussing of far more attention on the Commonwealth Employment Service than has previously been the case. 
This recession not merely placed many tens of thousands of people out of work but it brought to Australia in a fashion before unheralded, a restructuring of our industries at a pace with which Australia itself could not deal. I think it important to make this point so that any discussion about the operation of a Commonwealth Employment Service office is relevant to the overall economic problems that our country may face. In other words it is no good blaming those people working in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices for our own shortcomings. But I had hoped that today we would have had sufficient time to look at what structure is needed to carry out the function of placing people in employment, and to be able to meet the vacancies caused from time to time in industry. Because, just as I said looking back over the years we have a pattern of very low unemployment rates, today, looking forward, it will take a government of the utmost enterprise to eradicate the major problem of unemployment as it has been consolidated in this country. In all seriousness and with the best of will it is an impossible task to read into the Bill before the House or, more specifically, the clauses dealing with the functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service as described in the Bill that this Bill is other than window dressing. 
I realise that the Norgard committee report will be the subject of a great deal of quoting throughout this debate, and properly so. However, let me be the first to fire the shot. In making the criticism, I refer the Government to the words contained in the Norgard committee report: 
However, what the CES needs more than any of the improvements suggested above is the political will and the support of the Government to upgrade its activities so it can function as a modern manpower service. 
Obviously the warning given by Norgard has not been taken up by the Government. It is one thing to say, as did the Minister in his second reading speech, that the purpose of this Bill is:  to provide a legislative framework for the CES which is appropriate for its development as a modern manpower service. 
But the Government has no general manpower policy which this new authority is to carry out. The Government would not need any new authority to carry out programs which it has in operation at the moment. I do not wish to condemn the present schemes outright. In some cases they may do a minor good. But the Minister and the Government know that in relation to a total workforce problem the present programs are not even scratching the surface. The manpower program as such needs direction from the top. The Commonwealth Employment Service authority could and would be frustrated by policy emanating from the Executive. If the Executive does not want full employment all the window dressing in the world by the Commonwealth Employment Service will not overcome the problem. That Service in fact would need the utmost co-operation from a sympathetic government giving to it the autonomy and the resources required to develop initiatives if we are to overcome this problem. I would like also at this stage to refer to the Norgard recommendation, which stated:  . . management of the CES should be vested in a statutory authority wholly and solely concerned with employment and manpower matters including analysis of the labour market and formulation of manpower programs. 
One would have thought that having decided against the statutory authority the Government would have taken the opportunity to tell us why. At the moment let me say we are unpersuaded in the Labor Party towards having a Commonwealth Employment Service as a statutory authority. But it is a recommendation of the Committee set up by this Government which, in fact, has been totally ignored by the Government. Whilst making the point about the statutory authority one would have to say that the Bill before the House gives the Commonwealth Employment Service very little independence at all. This would not be a shortcoming if the Government had a range of manpower programs which would keep the Commonwealth Employment Service busy implementing them. But that is certainly not the case as I have already said. When the National Director has his first meeting with his staff he will be discussing the same old, stale programmes which in real terms do very little to assist the vast majority of unemployed people or industries that are searching for new employees. 

 Mr Speaker, the importance and the urgency of a measure such as this are reinforced every month we look at the unemployment figures. For some of the elder people in our community it brings fears of another depression. For some of the very young people in our community it brings frustration before undreamed of. It bewilders and confuses governments, workers and employers. No relief can be gained from measuring the figures of unemployed people in this country against the figures of some other country. To say that we have 7 per cent and some other country has 7 per cent, so everything in Australia must be normal, is unacceptable. We must reject that theory as being shortsighted and inhuman. We should start from the very positive statement that we are a massive country with great resources, a very small population and a duty to provide employment for all those who wish to work. Only by adopting that as our guide can we be expected to make proper manpower decisions. 
On the question of manpower programs I do not lay the blame at the door of any particular organisation for Australia's inadequacies. The 1950s and 1960s bred complacency, but that complacency has no place in our thinking today. Unemployment and the social scars that come with it are a nightmare to hundreds of thousands of Australians and collectively we have to lift that burden. It may be that in putting forward proper manpower programs the Government of the day would suggest that their investment in this area would be set down for longer than the normal parliamentary term. Again I think it important to point out on behalf of the Labor Party that should this Government be so moved, the Opposition would look seriously at any manpower program initiated by this Government, to see that wherever possible our support was forthcoming. It is becoming obvious from the experiences of countries overseas that if the operation of our new Commonwealth Employment 
Service is to be successful many of the programs will be long term in nature. Such planning would be ever so more successful if it carried with it the support of the Parliament, not just the governing party; and I look forward to the day when we can be tested on this point, but up to date the Government hau seen fit not to introduce a total manpower program, but is condemning those affected by a lack of it, to an inadequate service that has been provided in the past by the Commonwealth Employment Service and undoubtedly will be provided in the future. 
I want to refer here,  Mr Speaker,  to the words of  Mr Lindsay  Bowes.  Mr Bowes  is the Director of the South Australian Department of Labor and Industry and certainly one of the foremost authorities on the subject of manpower in Australia.  Mr Bowes  said quite recently: 'Labour market imbalances were likely to remain unchanged until Australia's manpower planning faculties were developed. ' He said also that 'conventional policies seemed unlikely to solve labour market imbalances'. I draw attention to a further quote of  Mr Bowes  when he said: 'These current labour market imbalances are likely to proceed into the future as long as either the international economic situation, the education system and community values all remain unchanged or government and employers insist upon relying on those policy actions which seemed sufficient during the previous decade'.  Mr Bowes,  of course, was pointing to something that is obvious to all those who wish to look at the problem, and that is we cannot use the solutions of the 1950s and apply them to the problems of the 1970s. In so many of the areas touched on briefly there the Government is silent. It gives an interpretation of a manpower program but, as I said it lacks the political will or the resourcefulness to carry them out. 
It may be that we should look closer at the problems that the Commonwealth Employment Service is likely to be confronted with and on this I would like to make reference to the special groups of unemployed. So many people classified as disadvantaged unemployed can, as Norgard pointed out, become unemployables. There needs to be extreme care taken and extra counsel given to prevent this from occurring. The most important of all is the need to accept that there are special groups of unemployed. There is no doubt that in Australia today people readily identify young people unable to find employment as the most disadvantaged group. This stems largely from the number of people who make up this group which by itself, gives 
Australia a greater than average post-war unemployment rate. It also exposes our failure to sensitise the break from school and entry to work. For three decades this barely offered a problem. Today to every young person leaving school anxious to enter the workforce it appears to be a great wall holding them back, restricting their opportunities, forcing them into employment necessitating far less than the skills they have been trained in, necessitating their long travel from their home, and making it appear futile to continue any form of higher education. I have said many times before that this is not a phenomena of only the working class suburbs or regions of this country. Families, irrespective of where they live, are subject to suffering the same consequences. 
For the Commonwealth Employment Service to do anything positive in this area would require intensive collaboration with the educational institutions of the various States. A lead can be drawn on this from the recommendations of the Norgard Committee contained in section 5.19, which reads: 
19 The Review therefore strongly recommends that the CES should withdraw from any large scale program aimed at counselling students in their final year of school. Rather the CES should play a more constructive and meaningful role by: providing labour market information and occupational information geared to the needs of young people at various levels of the secondary school system; encouraging and assisting in the development of career decision-making and other occupationally relevant programs in schools including working with career advisors in schools; encouraging and assisting employers in their efforts to play a positive role in bridging the gap from school to employment- e.g. by assisting in the design of induction programs for youth. 
The Bill contains an opportunity in its establishment of the National Advisory Committee for employers and employees to play some part in the inability of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the formulation of policy. I realise that both groups as described by the legislation will warmly welcome the opportunity to express their views formally through the channels of government as they have to do so often informally. These appointments should be continued wherever possible and wherever government legislation provides. Another matter with which the Commonwealth Employment Service will have to come to grips is the issue of the increasing role of women in the workforce. I would hope that the Commonwealth Employment Service is not guided by the Government's silence into believing that women are only of secondary importance. It is rather amazing still to hear in the late 1970s debate over the right to work of some sections of our community.  Mr Whitlam  pointed out in a speech given recently: 
It is time we recognised that women not only have a right to work if they want to but in most cases they need to work to support themselves and their families. There is no longer anything grasping or indulgent about the two income family. Hundreds and thousands of women get jobs to make ends meet. 
It is in the area of the employment of married women that the most dramatic change in the work force has taken place. Let me say again on behalf of the Labor Party, as I have said so many times previously, that it believes in the right to work for all those desirous of working and to the Labor Party a married woman has just as much right to go to work as any other citizen. In fact, as one can observe from the rapid growth of married women in the work force, reaching over 22 per cent of the total work force as of November 1977, they play an extremely important role in the country's economy. The fact that in 1947 women as a whole made up 22 per cent of the work force and that today they make up approximately 36 per cent of the work force is a clear indication to the Commonwealth Employment Service of the general acceptance of women in the work force. That needs to be stated and restated so that there can be no misunderstanding as to the Parliament 's view on this matter. 
It is also worth noting another problem when talking of women in the work force- here again the Commonwealth Employment Service should be the instrument for measuring this problemand that is the hidden unemployment among women. I do not wish to raise now the old argument of the payment of unemployment benefit to married women; that can wait until another day. But the fact that to a very large extent unemployed married women are not entitled to unemployment benefit is an action by which women are sent scurrying back to their homes and discouraged from actively seeking new employment. Obviously figures of this nature do not show up in the Commonwealth Employment Service's monthly unemployment figures, nor would they show up in the Australian Bureau of Statistics' figures because they would have to be actively seeking work seven days before the survey date'. 
One study done in the United States of America revealed that, in a period of rising unemployment, for every 100 women laid off 30 joined the unemployed and the remaining 70 dropped out of the labour force as discouraged workers. The rapid increase of employment of women also refutes the argument on the wage rate question. Again, whilst it is not totally relevant to this matter, this is an argument which was used against the Labor Government for the rise in unemployment figures in this country. At a time when equal pay had been given by the courts, between May 1974 and November 1975, female employment increased by 80,000 whereas the number of men employed declined by 60,000. At the moment, proportionately more females of Australian and migrant origin are unemployed in all age groups than the corresponding group of males. When these figures, which today show a total of 10.4 per cent of the female work force unemployed, are added to the hidden unemployment to which I have already referred one can comprehend the problems concerning the newly-structured Commonwealth Employment Service operation. 
I conclude my remarks on this item by quoting an International Labour Organisation declaration which reads: 
All measures shall be taken to guarantee women 's right to work as the inalienable right of other women doing and to refuse as necessary existing mass collective agreements, practices or customs which limit the integration of women in the work force on a footing of equality with men. 
In looking at these groups, the Commonwealth Employment Service will have to be cognisant in a manner far more sophisticated than previously has been the case in Australia of the specific problems of migrants. A very large proportion of Australia's work force was born outside of this country. Without saying as much, it has been expected to a very large extent that those people will fill the jobs that Australians do not want. The statistics would show us that in manufacturing industry, for instance, migrants comprise a far higher proportion of the work force than they do of the total work force. There is much talk in Australia of structural adjustment. That would affect the migrant families more than it would affect any other group. If the car industry, the shoe industry or the textile industry were being restructured, then, even in the sense of retraining the people involved, quite specific provision would have to be made for the problems of migrants. I hope that the local committees to be set up under clause 17 (2) of the Bill will contain a very good sprinkling of migrants so that they can have their say about the functioning of the Commonwealth Employment Service offices. I will certainly be encouraging them to do so. 
Likewise, Australia has to acknowledge that many Commonwealth Employment Service offices will have to deal with Aboriginal people. It is said that 30 per cent of the Aboriginal work force is unemployed. Closer scrutiny, I believe, would put that figure much higher. The Norgard Committee made reference to it in paragraph 5.45, as follows: 
The Review considers that an increase in staff is vital if the employment service is to give anything better than a nominal service to Aboriginal clients, especially those in isolated areas. The increase in staff should be devoted to: increasing the range of in-plant training arranged for Aboriginals under NEAT; improving the service to areas only barely being serviced by vocational officer; improving liaison with other agencies concerned with Aboriginal client groups. 
Again in this area we should be more positive in our attitude towards establishing employment faculties for the Aboriginal people. As citizens with special problems we should establish special services to blend them into the work force. I have full confidence that this could be achieved. As with other such groups, the physically and mentally handicapped person will require a professionalism within the Commonwealth Employment Service beyond that which may have been expected in the past. The Commonwealth Employment Service obviously will be successful only if its schemes receive support from the community in general and the State and Federal governments specifically. 
This is an area in which the Federal Government, with the Commonwealth Employment Service's operation, virtually has the field to itself. Its policies are the pacesetters. I note that the Minister said in his second reading speech the Government does not want a monopoly in the vacancy filling business. I cannot see any earthly reason why the Government should not have a monopoly. Any agency that is providing a service of the level indicated by the figures given by the Minister in his second reading speechthat is, in 1977 the Commonwealth Employment Service made over 1,200,000 referrals to vacancies and effected over 400,000 placements- is in a position to develop an expertise that would inevitably give it a position that I would regard as being beneficial to the community. The great advantage of building the expertise and the efficiency of the Commonwealth Employment Service is that it will in fact in the long term save the Government money. I sincerely hope that the Government makes the investment necessary in the first place in order to benefit in the long term. 
In addition to the various manpower policies on which the Government is silent we have also the very vexed question of the administration of unemployment benefit. The Norgard Committee said in its report that no subject raised more comment than the role of the Commonwealth Employment Service in this aspect of the administration. All the peak labour councils were of the view that the role of the CES in this area should be abandoned. The role of the CES in the administration of the payment of unemployment benefit is a clear contradiction in terms of any agency established to promote and implement manpower policies. 
The Parliament is aware, of course, of the Government's attitude to the payment of unemployment benefit and all the rules that it has laid down in order to harass those eligible to receive the benefit. The frequent visits to CES offices by unemployed people is not done in line with the objective of finding employment or to receive counselling of what employment may be available, but rather to remain eligible to receive unemployment benefit. Such a practice obviously brings an agency into clear disrepute. The CES will continue to spend hours, days and even weeks collecting and processing information which is of no earthly use to its main objective of placing people in employment. 
This Bill neither allows total withdrawal of the CES from this area nor gives it total responsibility. The grey area remains. There appears to be no attempt by the Government to heed the advice of the Norgard Committee. The Norgard Committee said in paragraph 2.35 of its report: 
Briefly, the procedure would be that people wishing to claim unemployment benefit should be required to register with the CES. As a matter of preference, the Review would not wish to have the CES issue, receive or check Department of Social Security benefit claim forms, but recognises that the CES ought, as a community service, have the necessary forms available. The claim form would be endorsed by the CES to the effect that the person was registered for employment and passed to the Department of Social Security. Thereafter the CES would take no pan in the benefit procedure except to inform the Department of Social Security that the person was no longer registered or to report on unsatisfactory attitudes to employment . . . Should a person appeal against withdrawal of benefit as a result of a report from the CES the Review would hope that the CES would be called upon to speak at the appeal hearing. 
There is no explanation in the Minister's second reading speech for ignoring the information that was given to the committee of inquiry. Those union and association representatives speaking on behalf of the employees in the Commonwealth Employment Service have made their views quite clear. One gets the distinct impression that the departmental bureaucracy is loathe to adopt any of the suggestions put forward by the Norgard committee. 
There is one final matter, apart from other points that will be raised from this side of the 
House, that I wish to mention. This, I believe, throws up the problem of an agency being asked to implement a plan for which the Government has no policy. I refer here to the much discussed early retirement arguments. The Government gives no lead on this matter at all. There are many people in our community who believe that an early retirement plan would help to overcome the high rate of unemployment amongst the young people. The Labor Party as yet is not committed to any such plan but we are committed to having the Parliament discuss these matters, and it goes without saying that the National Director of the Commonwealth Employment Service and his Advisory Council will obviously come up against this argument. 
The mandatory retiring age of 65 years for men and 60 years for women is a social rule that we inherited but have never questioned. The changes in the expected life span or our standard of living or the demographic changes taking place in our society have failed to rouse the Government even to the extent of having a Parliamentary debate on this matter. But now, quite rightly, people say why 65? Some countries with a more purposeful social conscience than the present Government have a flexible retiring age of between 60 and 70 years of age. Others have made arrangements whereby part pensions can be paid for those opting out of the workforce before 65. At least one country permits early retirement on full pension provided that person is replaced in employment by an under 30 year old. This is a question that we have to look at closely. The ratio between those at work and those receiving social security payments plays an important part, of course, in this debate. 
In the United Kingdom where in 1977 some $80m was made available in making early retirements available in areas of high unemployment it was found that the majority of people who utilised this facility were in fact already unemployed. So that now a growing number of countries grant early retirement to persons approaching retirement age who have been involuntarily unemployed for a specified period of time. The idea recognises the problem of older workers who find it especially difficult because of age or health to become re-employed. In contrast to the examples given, the United States of America quite recently as a result of considerable lobbying from age groups such as 'Grey Power' extended the retirement age to 70 years. 
But just as the Government would have to lay down the guidelines in order for the newly established Commonwealth Employment Service to successfully implement the plan, so also would the Government have to think seriously about preparing people for retirement. It has now become a practice of several large companies overseas to allow people approaching the retiring age to gradually work a snorter and shorter working week, so that the process of utilising their spare time commences perhaps two years before they reach the mandatory retirement age. These matters should be discussed in the Parliament. Attitudes should be adopted by the Government if the role of the Commonwealth Employment Service is to be successful. The present Bill before the House, although as I said it is marginally better than the old one set up by the Commonwealth Employment Service, will not, in our opinion, be able to fulfil the objectives set down for it without positive Government policy. Accordingly, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Employment Service as envisaged under this legislation would be grossly inadequate as a vehicle for an effective manpower policy'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
In respect of the declarations required under section 1 5 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, will the Minister supply the following information concerning each Minister of the present Government: (a) what sum did each Minister receive in donations during the 1977 election campaign, (b) what sum did each Minister spend on his campaign in his electoral division, or, in the case of senators, in his State, (c) does any Minister know of any sum spent by his political party or by any person on his behalf during the 1977 campaign; if so, what were the amounts, (d) did each Minister spend any sum on (i) newspaper, (ii) radio and (iii) television advertisements; if so, what are the details, (e) what was the cost of printing each Minister's how-to-vote cards and (f) what was the cost of the printing and distribution of other literature on the Minister's behalf throughout his electoral division, or in the case of senators, his State, during the campaign. 
I do not altogether disagree with the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  and I suspect that not all my colleagues shared my views about the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as a roving ambassador on the question of uranium safeguards. At the time I thought it was a little strange that, being in the position he was in, he was able to accept that task from the Government. However, that is not the reason I have risen to speak tonight. I want to refer to the review of a rather amazing book that has been made available to the public today. I was interested in the title,  The Third Man,  because if memory serves me correctly  The Third Man  was a story about someone running around the sewers trying to evade the police. If I am correct, the author of this book must have been running around somewhere because the level of his politics does not seem to be extremely high. Having been a minister and the Leader of this House for some time, he did not seem to have anything substantial to say about Australian political life. He referred to putting oysters or onions or whatever it was in one's pocket and he noted that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has the proper breeding to be a Prime Minister. If that is the level of his concept of the House of Representatives in Australian politics after all that time, then I do not know whether his replacement of  Senator Wright  will add much to the Senate. Perhaps we should look at that replacement. It seems amazing that someone who has served in this chamber for so long has to see the House of Representatives and the people he worked with in that way. 
There is no doubt in my mind that it is a fictitious story. First of all, he had to borrow a journalist to help him write the book. Secondly, instead of being something substantial that could add to people's understanding of the role of Parliament and the role of politicians, people are going to think a lot less of this institution and a lot less of those who serve in it because of the gossip that has been incorporated in the book and because the author seems to want to settle scores and perhaps promote a couple of people who are obviously his friends. Honourable members can imagine how I felt as an old shearer when I read that breeding had something to do with whether or not one could be successful in this chamber. I looked around at a couple of my colleagues, and I know that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was very upset about it. I do not know whether the Parliamentary Library will be rushed by people who want to read the book, but it does not seem to me to add much to our lifestyle, unfortunately. 
According to the book, he has no taste. It is unfortunate that people who do not serve in this chamber cannot see their way clear to writing something constructive and decent, something that could be looked upon by students of politics as being helpful to their studies, rather than this type of sensationalism about what life here is like. I do not know how many people knew of the events that the author,  Mr Chipp,  has gone to the trouble of telling us about. It does not seem terribly interesting to me. 
-It seemed to be the only thing that the newspapers were interested in telling us about this morning. Perhaps that is the reason the book was written in the style that it was. It was not written for the public; it was written for sensationalism, it was written for the headlines. I can assure honourable members that it is the belief of those on this side of the House that had the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  put  Mr Chipp  in the Ministry the book would never have seen the light of day. The book was written by someone who is very upset about having been left out of the Ministry, nothing more and nothing less. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: what has been the cost to the Government of the investment allowance since its introduction in 1976. 
-The Public Service Arbitration Act Amendment Bill is bad legislation and will be opposed outright by the Opposition. This is not what could be described as a properly considered piece of legislation. It was born out of the Government's humiliation and defeat in the recent Commonwealth Employment Service dispute and will ultimately do great harm to industrial relations within the Public Service. It is quite extraordinary that the Government, having handled the dipute so badly, and having participated in the dispute as a party to the dispute, now wishes to change the rules in order that the Government or the Public Service Board is always the winner. That is not industrial relations but industrial anarchy. 
This legislation has as its origin the bungling management of the Public Service carried out by this Government since it came to office in 1975. The unions involved in the recent dispute can in no way be looked upon as a group of militants attempting to usurp the role of Government. The fact that the unions involved were prepared to take this dispute to the point of stand-down requires some further analysis. I believe Government decisions taken well before this dispute arose played some part in the employees' decision to fight the Government on this issue. The conflict occurred towards the end of 1977 and early in 1978 over a Board proposal to recruit a large number of people from outside the Service to middle level positions in the Commonwealth Employment Service. The unions took the view that applications for promotion or transfer from serving officers should be considered before the recruitment campaign was launched outside the Service. In addition to this, the associations also believed a review process should be established to allow the capabilities of long serving Public Servants to be matched against recruits from outside the Service. The Public Service Board of course refused to accept these views, and the dispute arose. 
Before dealing with the dispute as such, allow me to present what I consider to be some of the problems that came before this actual dispute arose. In his second reading speech the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said: 
Honourable members will recall that in 1 976 the Government commissioned  Mr J.  D. Norgard to conduct an inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service. In his report Norgard identified the need for more staff in the CES who have relevant experience in industry and commerce, either at an operative or managerial level. The Government accepted that view. Accordingly, in November of last year, vacancies for Employment Officer (Class 4) positions in the CES were advertised both within the Public Service and in the Press. 
The House can see from this that the Minister and the Government place great emphasis upon the review carried out by  Mr Norgard  in taking the action that they did late last year. However, the Government has been crudely selective in using Norgard as a springboard for these decisions. Let us have a look firstly at what the Norgard Committee said on staff resources on page 1 73 of its report. It states: 
There has been a marked increase in the areas of the CES staff establishment in recent years. Establishment at the end of June 1974 was 1,874. At the end of June 1976 it had risen to 2,766, an increase of 48 per cent. However, in the twelve months ending June 1974 the number of clients seeking employment help with the CES totalled 1,063,000 whilst for the same period in 1976 the number was 1,667,000. This represents an increase of 57 per cent. In other words staffing increased at a lower rate than the number of clients. 
Coming on top of this of course we had the Government's policy of 1 976 to place ceilings on all departments of the Commonwealth Public Service right across the board. It was ironic that at a time when this Government was purposely building the pool of unemployed in Australia, it at the same time was placing a ceiling on the number of people that could be appointed to service the wants of the unemployed. It is a wonder that an industrial dispute did not arise at that time. One can well understand the frustrations of those people working in the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service, greatly undermanned as they were, who were weekly having greater and greater pressures put upon them. It is interesting to note in the Royal Commission Report on Australian Government Administration the comments made on the impact of the Government imposing ceilings within the Service. The Commission had this to say: 
Without question the grievance most often made against ceilings is their general incompatability with the growth of government initiatives by way of expanded or new programs. In the first place departments claim that the ceiling given them does not take cognisance of the thrust of their expected programs, and this would be a natural complaint levied by all government agencies against all central controlling organs of government. However the more serious aspect of this complaint relates to government initiatives announced after ceilings have been proclaimed with no allowance for the ceiling to be adjusted to take account of this initiative. In short this boils down to an unawareness on the pan of Cabinet in particular of the resource implications of government moves. Naturally enough the Public Service Board is not able to adjust any department's ceiling without the authority of its own minister (virtually the Prime Minister in all cases). In short it can be stated quite definitely on the basis of numerous cases cited throughout the government machine that ceilings have not been as responsive as government initiatives. 
I place great emphasis on this point because I consider that the Government's decision to cut back on the Public Service had a big influence on the dispute at the end of 1977 and early in 1978. The Commission continued. 
Some other general complaints which have been voiced regarding ceilings include the following: 
They are not an effective control mechanism. It is the whole management system of the depanment which is the key. Ceilings are just one instrument. Ceilings are unnecessary if your management is good. 
They cause tension, strain and stress, rivalry and communication breakdowns in departments. 
They are time consuming to implement, more so in large complex departments with far flung outposts. 
They affect the credibility of departments with the general public, with specific clients, and with potential recruits. 
They are inappropriate to departments with the general public, with specific clients, and with potential recruits. 
They are inappropriate to departments which have experienced frequent reorganisations. 
They inhibit attempts to decentralise government activity because the application of staff ceilings invariably means centralisation of physical activity and decision making. 
They lead to all sorts of claims by departments that all or portion of their activities should be exempt from the ceiling. In other words they lead to special pleading which can often find its way right through to Cabinet level. 
They are far too arbitrarily applied with no real attempt at priority determination especially at the macro level. 
The Public Service Board keeps insisting that the ceilings will determine the workload of the department but it is the workload which determines the ceiling. 
Not enough recognition is given by the Board in its allocation of ceilings to the irrevocable commitments which tie departments to certain programs and thus inhibit their attempt to formulate priorities, especially when the ceiling is a tight one. 
The findings of the Royal Commission would have had a greater bearing on the CES offices which were working under such enormous strain than possibly any other government department. Yet the Government continued to pursue this folly. As I have pointed out, Norgard found staff increases in the CES were growing at a much lower rate than that of the number of clients. In this context, and with a dispute imminent, the Norgard Report is also important. As I have said, the Government had been crudely selective in its use of the Norgard recommendations. 
The Minister uses as his whole case a very small part of the Norgard recommendations on which to justify the Government's pigheadedness during the term of the dispute that led to the introduction of this legislation. 
Norgard in fact gave a very comprehensive and detailed analysis of the inadequacy of the staffing of the CES offices, much of which had been caused by Government decisions. In both the Norgard and the Royal Commission inquiry  into the Public Service, emphasis was placed upon job satisfaction, the opportunity for promotion, the proper utilisation of ability, and the attitude to the Public Service as a career. Though the Government gives lip service to many of these views on employment within the Government service itself, action in this matter does quite the contrary. 
On pages 1 10 through to 1 15 of volume III of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration the disillusionment of many Government employees in the Third and Fourth Division is evident and the Government should have taken these things into mind when it embarked, at the behest of the Public Service Board, into this dispute. The Government would have known that to recruit such a large number of people into Government employ was not a correct interpretation of the Norgard recommendation. To talk of bringing in over 600 employees with 'managerial experience' was then, as it is now, nonsense. To talk of the 600 having qualifications and experience and skills which not one person in the Public Service had already attained was also nonsense. But the Public Service Board wanted complete control. 
In the light of the Association's refusal to accept the Board assertion of its absolute authority, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations referred the matter to the Public Service Arbitrator for settlement. One would have thought that, having notified the dispute to the Arbitrator, the Minister and the Public Service Board would have abided by the decision of the umpire. In his second reading speech the Minister intimated what happened when the matter came before the Deputy Arbitrator. The Minister said: 
He refused to deal with the central issue, i.e. there should be a right of appeal against appointments to the CES from outside the Public Service, on the ground that he did not have jurisdiction to do so because in his view the matter did not, as was required under the Public Service Arbitration Act, concern conditions of employment of officers or employees of the Public Service. 
I should say that it has been abundantly clear, right throughout this period from the commencement of the dispute until today when honourable members are debating this legislation, that the Associations involved have not been opposed to outside recruitment. They seek the maintenance of the promotions appeal system which is such an integral part of their working conditions. We on this side of the House do not agree with the Minister when he says in his second reading speech: 
The Parliament has clearly intended that the area of vital importance to the standing of the Service recruitment, selection and promotion procedures should be a matter of management decision. 
There seems to be something very sinister about the way in which the Government has acted. On the one hand it says it is important to bring in people with these new skills to the Public Service, but apparently these people cannot stand up against the appeals of people already in the Service. One can only conclude that the people the Government is seeking out do not have all the skills the Government would like us to believe they have. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The issue is not simply one of management prerogatives though that is important, it is whether the efficiency of the Service might be allowed to be placed in jeopardy. 
I put it to the Minister that if he was so confident of the ability of his new employees they would have easily stood up to any appeal that may have been launched. But the Minister and the Board were determined at all costs to pursue their own course and throw industrial relations into the rubbish bin. When the Deputy Public Service Arbitrator refused to deal with the central issue the matter was taken to the High Court. The High Court left no doubt as to its belief in the jurisdiction of the Deputy Arbitrator. In an extremely important decision, the High Court completely vindicated the stand of the Associations and ruled against the stand being taken by the Government. In its decision, after giving its interpretative reasons, the High Court said: 
For these reasons the  Deputy  Arbitrator had power to make an order granting to the officers concerned in or affected by or likely to be concerned in or affected by the industrial situation a right of appeal against the appointment of outsiders to positions in the service, provided that he thought such an order 'necessary or desirable for putting an end to or preventing the occurrence of, the situation or preventing the occurrence of further industrial situations' or necessary or desirable by reason of the existence ... of the situation'. However he misconstrued the provisions of the Act and misconceived the extent of his powers. 
He wrongly failed to consider the merits of the dispute which had given rise to the industrial situation. Once this conclusion was reached it was clear that mandamus should issue to command him to exercise the jurisdiction which he wrongly declined. Moreover the orders that he in fact made were made only because of the erroneous interpretation which he had placed on section 12d and his erroneous assumption that he lacked jurisdiction to determine the merits of the dispute. His statement, which is quoted above, makes this plain. For that reason those orders could not be allowed to stand. 
From then the matter should have rested, but the Board and the Government, again not to be defeated, decided to change the ground rules. Thus we have this legislation before the House which, as I said at the outset, is ill-considered and completely unnecessary. Not only does it turn the clock back for the Government as an employer but it contains in clause 4 penalties that can be described only as legislative over-kill. Standdowns in the field of industrial relations will never be accepted as such by the industrial movement. It is a mechanism used by employers which the movement endures, but to take this matter to the extent of penalising the sick leave, annual leave and long service leave of any person stood down is taking stand-down provisions to new heights of repugnance, besides necessitating a mountain of administrative work that otherwise could be avoided. 
The jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator to deal with these matters was established as far back as 1922. It was confirmed in this most recent High Court decision. The association involved agreed to be bound by the decisions of the Arbitrator. The employees in this case have carried out their responsibilities in a manner which leaves no room for criticism. The Government's actions on the other hand, the lead-up to the dispute, the ceilings, the lack of real concern in the case of the CES officers, the refusal to be bound by the Arbitrator's decision and now this legislation have been part of one long series of political blunders which deserve the highest condemnation. 
Recruitment from outside the Public Service is supported by all, including both parties in this House and employees in the Service. The Government had at hand all the ingredients for a peaceful transition. Only a government devoid of ideas and goodwill could have bungled the issue the way this Government has. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
To what extent has (a) the automobile industry, (b) the textile industry, (c) the footwear industry and (d) the clothing industry utilised the availability of the current investment allowance. 
-I want briefly to express the grave disappointment of the Labor Opposition in this measure being passed. We have been given absolutely no justification for that happening. There has been no explanation for the way in which this Act is being amended. 
I realise the amount of time that we have had for debate; it was only what the measure was worth. I do not think we have had more time than was justified. When one considers that this legislation concerns the community, the industries of Australia and the economy of this country, it can be seen that the Opposition is playing a far more responsible role in regard to it than is the Government. Those of us that have come off the shop floor understand the problems of the shop stewards. The organisers that are not trained and have had no access to training previously understand the opportunities that the Trade Union Training Authority has provided them for the presentation of their cases and the administration of their branches of the unions. They have become delegates at the national level of their trade unions. The Bill attacks all the things that trade union training means to these people. 
These amendments are, as I said earlier, grotesque. There is no justification for them apart from the political fears of the Liberal PartyNational Country Party Government. We condemn the Government for the way in which it has brought them in two and a half years after it expressed its views and after two and a half years of experience of the Trade Union Training Authority. The Authority has displayed an autonomy that has shown it not to be the captive of any of the political parties, of the pressure groups within the trade union movement or of the representatives of industry in this country. We are very concerned that these amendments are being passed. They will be opposed in the other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-This Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is opposed by the Opposition. It attempts to bring to an end what has been one of the most effective instruments brought into the trade union field this century. The introduction of the Bill exposes the Government in its lack of understanding of the collective needs of the trade union movement and industry. In the second reading speech the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  referred to the bipartisan attitude that pervaded the debate on the original Trade Union Training Authority Act in 1975 and said he hoped this would persist in relation to this amending Bill. The Opposition also hoped for this bipartisan approach. But, unfortunately, the proposals in the Bill are so blatantly partisan and have been the subject of such inadequate consultation that the Opposition cannot support them in any form. 
The establishment of the Trade Union Training Authority was one of the major successes of Labor's Administration. The Minister has given no cogent reasons for amending the principal Act. The Minister has ignored the major recommendations of the committee of inquiry he established in 1977, and certainly his whole approach is contrary to the spirit and intentions of the committee's report. He states that he is going outside the committee's report in order  . . to provide for more efficient and effective management of the Authority'. He then refers to the fact that the structure of TUTA comprises seven councils- the Australian Council for Union Training and six State councils for union training, a director of the Clyde Cameron College, and six directors of the State trade union training centres.  His  main proposals add one more body to this structure, and one more highly paid director with the title of National Director. How does this expansion of the structure of TUTA and its senior officers provide for more efficient and effective management? 
This Government's expressed policy is to cut public expenditure and the number of public employees. Yet to suit its own ends, it is here taking a highly efficient organisation and adding to its administration staff, and its administrative costs without any indication as to how this will improve efficiency. There has been no complaint about the efficiency or effectiveness of TUTA. 
This Authority was set up in September 1975 and has, from its inception, been faced with severe restraints on its resources. Yet it has established a first-class residential college, the Clyde Cameron College in Albury-Wodonga, and six non-residential training centres- one in each State. From its inception in September 1975 to the end of April this year- about 2V4 years- the Authority has not only established itself, but also has carried out a volume of effective work which is quite staggering. For example, over 17,000 trade unionists have attended TUTA courses. About another 1,500 unionists have undertaken postal courses supported by TUTA. These figures exclude unionists who have been encouraged by TUTA to attend courses conducted by other bodies. These 17,000 unionists have attended over 900 courses conducted in about 50 different locations- in virtually every industrial or mining centre throughout Australia; from the Pilbara to Gove, to Weipa, to Queenstown in Tasmania, to Whyalla in South Australia. Expressed in another way, TUTA has provided over 47,500 student training days- that is the number of students multiplied by the days of training. This has been achieved concurrently with the establishment of a national organisation involving the recruitment of staff, the setting up of financial and personal procedures, and all those checks and balances required of a statutory body utilising public funds. 
I believe that no questions have been raised with the Authority, by the Minister or his Department, about any lack of efficiency or effective management. The Minister's vague assertion that this amending Bill is being introduced to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of TUTA does not stand up to any examination of the facts. Without wishing to impugn the efficiency of any government department or statutory body, I challenge the Minister to point to any public body which in a period of  2Vi  years has achieved more or even as much with a similar level of staff and resources. If the Minister asserts that he is acting in the interests of efficiency and good management, I can only believe that in some way he has been misinformed by his departmental advisers. I ask him to examine the record for himself. 
I now turn to the details of the Bill. The major intention of the principal Act was to set up a body which could utilise public funds for trade union training, with the effective checks necessary to the use of public funds- such as responsibility to the Minister and Parliament, audits conducted by the Auditor-General and so on- but in such a form that the trade union movement could use the scheme with confidence that it would meet the needs of the movement free of political interference. This was accepted by all speakers in the debate in 1975, including the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Indeed the present Minister, when leading for the Opposition in the debate in 1975, in moving an amendment to increase the size of the Australian Council for union training, the chief governing body of the authority, said this:  lt will be seen that if our amendments are adopted- as I hope they will be- union representatives will maintain a large majority on the Council. We accept this as reasonable . . . 
However, he now rejects that view. The new Executive Board of TUTA will have eight members of whom four will be trade unionistsnot a majority at all, let alone a large majority. Indeed, the non-union members of the Executive Board can now outvote the union members because the  Chairman,  who will be appointed by the Minister without any obligation to consult the unions, has both a deliberative and a casting vote. Moreover the quorum requirements mean that a meeting of the Board could be held with only one union representative present. 
These are major changes that carry enormous consequences for the Authority and their origin remains a mystery. As the committee of inquiry made no special suggestions or recommendations and as the Authority itself has not supported or raised these questions, one can only say that those people, whether they be in the Department or in the ranks of Government itself, who have persisted in these alterations were too cowardly to go before the committee of inquiry to put their views, but rather went behind closed doors to influence the Government in imposing this offending structure. 
When we come to the revised Australian Council for Union Training in the amending Bill, matters are even worse. The Council has 13 members plus a chairman. The quorum required for a meeting is six, and the new composition of the Council makes it possible to hold a meeting without any unionists present. This is plainly ridiculous for a body whose function it is to advise the Authority on the planning, development and effectiveness of trade union training. 
The key provisions in this Bill relate to the Executive Board, which now becomes the chief policy making body of the Authority, and the appointment of a new position called National Director. I have already referred to the unsatisfactory representation of trade unions and the Board. Other members of the Board are representative of employers and those members appointed by the Minister- the  Chairman,  the National Director and a member of the Minister's Department. The Opposition regards it as extremely dangerous and undesirable that in an area as sensitive as trade union training, there should be three political appointees out of a board of eight. There is a high risk of politicising trade union training, which would obviously be fatal to its effectiveness. The authority for the selection of  Chairman  and National Director, in the opinion of the Opposition, should remain with the Australian Council. If this is accepted by the Government, it will ensure that TUTA remains beyond political interference, and retains the full confidence of the union movement. TUTA itself is always open to the Minister's scrutiny and the scrutiny of his Department. The Minister has always had, and retains in this Bill, the right to direct the Authority as to the exercise of its powers and functions. He has never used these powers- which is another reason why the Opposition cannot understand the need for this amending Bill- but if he believes TUTA is in some way acting improperly, it remains open to him to do something about it. 
With regard to employer representation on the Executive Board and the Australian Council, I draw attention to two facts. Firstly, in the debate in 1975 the Minister, speaking as Opposition spokesman, said: 
We . . . recognise that paid educational leave is not mandatory in Australia at the present time. If it had been we would have moved for a truer tripartite approach with members of the Council coming from employer organisations . . . 
Yet now, even though paid educational leave is still not mandatory, the Minister reverses his view without any explanation. Secondly, the committee of inquiry specifically examined this issue, and rejected the notion of employer representation- a fact the Minister was careful not to mention in his second reading speech. 
This legislation gives the union movement the worst of all worlds. It cuts across the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, it gives enormous impetus to political appointments and reduces the union voice on the Executive Board to that of a minority. In other words, we believe that if the Government accepts that there should be majority union representation on the Executive Board, and the Australian Council should nominate the  Chairman  and the National Director for appointment by the Minister, the representation of employers on the Board and Council would do less to reduce union confidence in the scheme. Again, I urge the Minister to give careful consideration to our views which are intended to enable TUTA to continue to function efficiently and with the confidence of the union movement. This is an area where both sides of the House wish for a bipartisan approach, but to achieve this, proper consideration has to be given to the Opposition's views. The Labor Government did this in 1975 and I appeal to the Minister seriously to consider making it possible for this Bill to pass through the Parliament with the support of all parties. 
I now come to the position of the National Director. The Principal Act does not refer to such a position, but what it did was to say that the College should service the Australian Council. Thus logically, that Council appointed the Director of the College- which is a statutory position- as the chief executive officer of the Authority, and the headquarters staff of the Authority are now located at the College under the Director. I believe it was the intention of the committee of inquiry to regularise this position, and we agree with it. However, the Government has taken the opportunity to create a new and obviously highly paid position, in addition to the existing Director. The existing Director is on a salary equivalent to Division 2, level 2 in the Public Service- a salary of over $27,000. Presumably the new National Director will be on an even higher salary. Is this improving efficiency? Is it effective management? Is it responsible control of public expenditure? 
The method of appointment of this new highly paid officer is by the Minister. The present position is that the existing Director is appointed by the Australian Council for union training. The Opposition believes this to be a proper method of appointment. The competence of the present incumbent has never been questioned, nor has the correctness of the Council's selection of him. I take this opportunity also of paying a tribute to the present Director,  Mr Peter  Matthews, for the work he has done. I know from my own personal experiences with the trade union movement that the concept of trade union training has grasped the trade union movement in a manner that would have seemed impossible just a few short years ago. Much of this success can be attributed to the skill and enterprise of  Mr Matthews. 
The Minister should look carefully at this matter. Regardless of whatever government is in power, political appointments to TUTA are fraught with danger to the well-being of effective trade union training. We all agree in this House that trade union training is vitally important to the well-being of our society. To make it a matter of political contention, and to make it subject to political appointments, are to take the risks of not only throwing out the baby with the bath water but also of throwing out the bath as well. Apparently the Minister or his Department have given the trade unions the impression that the new National Director may not be located at the headquarters of TUTA, that is at the Clyde Cameron College in Albury-Wodonga. I cannot imagine why there should be such a change as all TUTA'S national administration staff and records are at the College, and the College is clearly the location for the director of studies, and is recognised by everyone as the head office of TUTA. I hope that the Minister will give us an assurance that the National Director, however appointed, will be located at the College. This is such an important matter that the House will require an assurance from the Minister. 
The final section of the Bill removes the need for the Minister to take recommendations from the Australian Council into effect when making regulations under the Act This seems to be a petty move and again reduces consultation on important matters. Will the Minister restore this section and demonstrate his goodwill toward the concept of trade union training with the highest degree of trade union involvement? 
There are some other matters in the Bill on which I wish to comment. In the debate on the principal Act in 1975, there was universal agreement by all speakers that the definition of trade union training was appropriate. Many speakers welcomed the breadth of that definition and urged that trade union training should not only encompass the technical questions and procedures of industrial law but also be concerned with the history of the movement, and its structure, and such matters as labour economics and the wide range of national issues relevant to trade unions and their members. I am aware that the committee of inquiry recommended some narrowing of the definition. However, the current definition has created no practical problems and I am not aware of any departure from fields which all members of this House could regard as legitimate for a trade union training program. 
A number of Ministers in the present Government spoke in the debates in 1975. Indeed, the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations used the word 'education' in his speech, although he is now proposing to delete it from the definition.  His  colleagues, who are now the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  both spoke eloquently of the need for a broad definition. Definitions are notoriously difficult. Performance is easier to judge. As I have indicated, there is no suggestion that TUTA's present program is regarded as deficient in this or any other way. Will the Minister, therefore, assure the House that the new definition will not inhibit TUTA from carrying out the kind of courses in its present programs? 
There is another area to which  Senator Guilfoyle  referred in 1975- that is, the interlocking of the State and Australian Councils, so that the different circumstances in each State were properly recognised while effective co-ordination was maintained. The committee of inquiry agreed with  Senator Guilfoyle  's view and made recommendations to strengthen the coordination of trade union training on a State and national level. The Minister's proposals not only reject  Senator Guilfoyle  's view and the recommendations of the inquiry but also effectively cut the existing links between the State councils and the Australian Council. It would be easy to pass this off with a joke about the 'new federalism', but it is a serious and important matter. The Minister gave no explanation as to why he had adopted this attitude. Indeed, as I indicated earlier, he has given this House no cogent reasons for any of the proposals in the Bill. This makes nonsense of talk of a bipartisan approach. 
As I have already stressed, TUTA's achievements have been outstanding. Its level of acceptance is remarkable. I understand that about 200 different unions have already been involved in courses, and that includes all the significant unions, regardless of their political views or their industrial policies. Unions have not only accepted the need for training but also in consultation with TUTA officers many unions are now developing internal schemes of training provided by themselves without public funds, as complementary to TUTA's work. Public funding has thus been instrumental in developing trade union training provision beyond TUTA's own programs. Umons are now starting to meet their own individual needs through training in internal union procedures, paid for out of their own resouces. Moreover many unions are now planning their training work to make the fullest use of the available resources. For example, some unions have taken decisions to send each new officer or official to TUTA's courses, and others have decided, over a period, to enrol each member of the union's council or governing committee to TUTA courses. Those who know anything about trade unions and trade union training, will realise what an enormous breakthrough this represents. 
Trade union training has also been accepted outside the union movement. Professor John Niland, Professor of Industrial Relations at the University of New South Wales has written that TUTA's establishment represents 'the most significant development of the last 50 years in the area of trade unionism and education'. Many other educational bodies are now consulting TUTA about industrial relations programs and are using TUTA materials, especially the excellent films TUTA has produced with Film Australia. Members of this House should see these films which are now in wide use in universities, colleges of advanced education, technical colleges, management education and schools. TUTA is now a recognised part of Australia's training and education resources. 
It is especially noteworthy that employers have also recognised TUTA's work, and I believe the Minister should take particular note of this fact before he disturbs the scheme. A number of employers have already indicated their concern at the present Government's attitude to TUTA. They are worried that the Government's actions may upset the confidence that unions have in TUTA and so reduce its effectiveness. While this may not be the view of all employers, the Minister is aware that it is the view of a number of the very largest employers in this country. 
Employers have shown their acceptance by granting paid educational leave to attend TUTA courses. Indeed a majority of rank and file unionists, those holding non full time offices, who attend TUTA courses- and that is about threequarters of TUTA's students- receive pay from their employer while at the course. Each State Public Service except Queensland provides paid leave, as does the Australian Public Service. This practical support from public and private employers is the most concrete indication of TUTA's status in the industrial community. None of these employers will thank the Government if the Minister's proposals reduce TUTA's attractiveness to unions or employers. 
This Government has stressed the importance of the mining industry. It is in this industry that TUTA's success in attracting the support of both employers and unions is most outstanding. Courses have been conducted at most of the major rnining sites- the Pilbara, Kalgoorlie, Gove, Weipa and Queenstown are just some examples. Employers in these industries have recognised as much as unions the need for the training of union delegates, located so far from the trades halls and union offices in the capital cities. They have provided practical help by providing not only paid leave for delegates, but also the necessary physical facilities- lecture rooms, et cetera- for the courses to be conducted. Clearly such courses can only be conducted in these locations through the agreement of the employer and the unions, in co-operation with TUTA. There is practical evidence that such courses have reduced the number of minor disputes at mining sites which require senior union and management personnel to fly to the site. The understanding of procedures and the confidence built up in local delegates and supervisors have resulted in many differences between unions and supervisors being settled before anyone has had to be called in. I again urge the Minister not to meddle with TUTA in a way which will upset these very beneficial arrangements and attitudes. 
Some employers have gone beyond this kind of assistance with particular courses affecting their employees. A number have provided nostrings aid to more general projects. For example, one company has recently provided funds, together with the Australia-Japan Foundation, for TUTA to select two union students to go on a study-tour of Japan. Is there any member of this House who would like to see this kind of support jeopardised? Another company has provided financial assistance to enable TUTA to develop materials for teaching non-English speaking migrant unionists and for unions with migrant workers. This is a most important development and one which all members of the House would support. One immediate result is that a New South Wales Government department has decided to take up some of this material for publication in a range of migrant languages. Yet another company has agreed to meet the travel costs of bringing a German trade union education expert to work with TUTA for a few months, probably in the field of health and safety. 
Is this the scheme that the Government wishes to fiddle with on vague, unstated grounds of improved efficiency and effectiveness? I again remind members that all of this has been achieved by a body set up  2Vi  years ago which has faced the financial and staff restraints imposed on public bodies throughout that whole period. I remind the House also of some of the figures I have mentioned: 17,000 unionists have attended over 900  courses  in about 50 locations. The Opposition agrees wholeheartedly with the Minister's plea for a bi-partisan approach to trade union training. But bi-partisanship involves both parties, the Government as well as the Opposition. 
I appeal to the Minister to withdraw this Bill to allow the Government to hear submissions from interested parties, employee and employer groups alike, especially those who are prepared to do it in public, before any legislation is rushed through. We present our argument honestly and sincerely for the purpose of maintaining TUTA's present success and to maintain its broad acceptability throughout the industrial community. I know that TUTA has been frozen for more than 12 months because of the committee of inquiry and the Government's internal considerations that must have affected the impetus of the organisation in an adverse way. But in view of the importance we all attach to the matter, I urge that he should now allow another few weeks if, as I believe, such extended consideration can bring forward a greater acceptance of any changes considered to be necessary. 
Let us, together, make a real effort to keep TUTA's future free of purely party political considerations. However, if the Government refuses to withdraw the Bill, as we believe it should do, then in no way will the Labor Party associate itself with the passage of this legislation. It flies in the face of a notable and exteremly important success story. The Government has not justified in any way at all the draconian measures envisaged in this Bill. The points I have raised in this debate are not merely the views of the Opposition for the purposes of debate but are the policy of the Labor Party which makes it quite clear that a Labor government would immediately reverse all of the decisions that are made in this Bill. 
I am greatly disturbed by the failure of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to justify the changes that are proposed in this Bill. When replying to the second reading debate he said nothing about the points that were made repeatedly about the lack of information or justification. The Minister had the opportunity, when replying to the points made about the clauses that we have been discussing, to justify the reasons why the Government proposes such massive changes, but he again failed completely. He cannot use the Committee of Inquiry into Trade Union Training as a springboard to justify these changes. He cannot use or rely upon the National Labour Consultative Council to justify the changes. I must say, with due deference to the trade union movement, that if the NLCC is to be used in the national Parliament in the way in which it is being used at the moment- the Minister coming in here and saying that he has had consultations with the NLCC, in an attempt, supposedly, to persuade the Opposition that it should go along with certain measures- the trade union movement itself should look seriously at the way in which the Minister uses the name of the NLCC. 
It is quite frustrating for the Opposition not to have access to the decision-making processes of the NLCC. This is particularly so when decisions are made on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or matters of that nature, or when discussions are held on such matters as Commonwealth Employment Service offices. We consider the Trade Union Training Authority to be of extreme importance to the community. However, reference is again made to the fact that there have been consultations on this matter with the NLCC. By virtue of the mechanisms of the NLCC we have to take for granted that the decisions or information regarding the tone of the discussions are not available to us. We reject the way in which the NLCC is being used by the Minister and by the Government to pursue their arguments because there is absolutely no reason in written or verbal form, why the Opposition ought to be persuaded to support this Bill. The Minister fails miserably to present an argument as to why the Parliament ought to support the legislation, why powers are being taken away from the trade union movement and on what grounds these major changes are being made. 
I wish to refer to a couple of other very important areas. I take up the charge that the Minister makes against the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  The Minister said that the Bill ought to be supported in the terms the Government has laid down. He also said that the only reason that the honourable member for Cunningham is opposed to the Bill is because the Trade Union Training Authority may not be as revolutionary as the honourable member for Cunningham would like it to be. The very case that we put forward today on the clauses now before the Committee is that the Trade Union Training Authority is not anyone's bunny. The honourable member for Cunningham was not presenting an argument that he wants the Authority to pursue only those views which he holds. 
Nor was any other member who holds different views from those held by the honourable member for Cunningham presenting the argument that the Authority ought to pursue views with less intensity. The very strength of the Authority, of the Australian Council for Union Training, of the Director, of the college and of the State councils is that they are not anybody's bunny. No one in the two and a half years in which the Trade Union Training Authority has operated can lay that charge against it. All of us, especially those of us who serve in public office for our respective political parties, perhaps sometimes would like to influence the Authority in respect of what it should be teaching people. But the very strength of the Authority and the very reason that it should not be changed is that it has been such a major success and that it has ignored all the outside influences. 
I want to take the Minister back to what I said in the second reading debate. I have looked through the report of the Committee of Inquiry but I cannot find any argument to support the change in the executive and the superimposing of the National Director on the present Director of Studies. As other honourable members have said, obviously someone who was not prepared to go to the Committee of Inquiry has been able to twist the arm of the Government and to impose his views. How else could the Government possibly justify an executive board which comes out of the blue, which it is not prepared to ask employer or employee about and which it wants to be put through the Parliament before there is any outside discussion? How can the Government justify the proposition that the majority voice on that executive board should be other than a trade union voice? Is the Government trying to present us with a view that people outside the work force know more about the labour force than the trade unions themselves? Not only does the Government go to the extent of putting outside people on the board, not only does the Minister retain the right to determine three of the eight appointments- a massive three political appointments out of eight positions- but he also discounts State influences. It is no good talking about the advisory capacity of States or their access to the executive. The Minister has relegated the States to a position of no responsibility. It is no good saying all of those things. The fact is that a majority of people on the board are non-trade union people. 
Why has the definition of 'education' disappeared? There is no justification for that anywhere at all. The term 'members of trade unions ' has disappeared. It is proposed that we will now refer only to officers and officials. Reference to the locations of where the trade union training will take place and the functions of the Authority has disappeared. There has been absolutely no attempt by the Minister to justify these deletions. I must say- I have felt this for the last two and a half years- that the speeches that come from this Department are woeful. The second reading speeches delivered here by the Minister in justification of what we consider to be extremely important legislation are the worst speeches, the most lacking in information or justification, coming from any department. We do not mind sitting here for half an hour listening to the reasons why the Government wants to change Acts. We are quite patient. We are quite tolerant. We will sit and listen to the reasons that are being put forward. But we are placed behind the eight ball in arguing measures like this when there is no justification flowing from the Government. If the Government said, 'This is the view of the Government; we still hold the same views as we held when Tony Street was Opposition spokesman on employment and industrial relations and when Malcolm Fraser was Leader of the Opposition in 1 975; all the fears we held then about trade union training we still hold and we are using that as justification for changing the Act', we would be prepared to argue with the Government. 
But Government members know full well that since those statements were made two and a half years ago the trade union training authority, by its very influence, by its very attraction to working people in this country, has dispelled all the fears that were expressed. So the Government cannot use that device. But the Minister comes here with what I consider to be a second reading speech without substance. Views were put forward by spokesmen from this side in the second reading debate but the Minister threw them aside because he said the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  holds one view or perhaps the honourable member for Hindmarsh went too far. The Minister has not really told us why the Government wants to change this Act dealing with the Trade Union Training Authority. We can see no reason for it. 
There is no suggestion why the Director should have someone superimposed upon him. The Minister said the Committee recommended we should have a National Director. What was wrong with the present Director? Why do we have to have a Director of Studies and a National Director over and above him? We look to the Minister for the answers. 
-This has been a most agonising issue for the Government. We have actually reached this situation on the first day of the Budget session of the Parliament as a result of action that was taken by the Opposition during the period of the first session of the 
Parliament. Among the other things that have occurred today, it is nice to see that the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia has been resurrected. This is the first major debate in which he has been allowed to speak since he was doing more tricks with the loopholes in the tax system in Australia than a monkey would do on a yard of rope. We have the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party back in the fray, telling us how he supports his leader. It is absolutely amazing. We can expect to see a bit more of this because honourable members on this side of the House do not expect that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be in that position for very much longer. 
The honourable member for Brisbane does not have a very good memory, either. I would not say too much if I were he. The Prime Minister of Australia commenced the debate. I will keep my remarks within the confines of the subject matter of the debate. I take the point that you,  Mr Speaker,  made with our leader about what he had to say. But these words actually appear in the speech made by the Prime Minister of Australia. He stated: 
I have absolutely no recollection of the matter being raised in any previous discussion prior to April the 1 4th. 
The Prime Minister of Australia is telling us that he is to be forgiven because he cannot remember the matter being discussed in his presence. I remind the Prime Minister that on 27 November 1975 he said: 'We will maintain Medibank'. Are we to forgive him because bis memory does not serve him correctly and now he forgets about that promise? What absolute nonsense it is for Government members to tell us in the Parliament today that the matter is all finished, that the Royal Commission has cleared the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  has found the former Minister for Administrative Services guilty of impropriety and that that is the end of the matter. As I said, what an agonising event this has been for the Government. 
The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  raised the issue and on three occasions in this Parliament the Government gagged the Opposition when it wanted to debate the matter. As I said previously, this matter was not initiated by the Opposition. It was initiated by the honourable member for Fadden, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  Colleagues of honourable members on the Government side, including the 
Minister for Finance, initiated this investigation. But on every occasion that we requested some parliamentary debate on the matter and on every occasion that we wanted this issue to be discussed, in came the heavy boots of the Government with its vast majority. It said that the Parliament could not deal with this matter. Now it comes to light why we could not deal with the matter. It is convenient for the Prime Minister to say that he does not remember. I wish we all had that privilege. If only every member in the House of Representatives could say to his constituents: It might have been a mistake; I am sorry, I do not remember doing it'. I wonder whether the Prime Minister could bestow that privilege on every member of the national Parliament. I wonder whether this will be the guiding light for all Government Ministers when they make a mistake. I wonder whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  now does not remember saying to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island: 'The Federal Government will step in to save you from the Queensland Government'. Is this going to be the practice? Is this going to be the standard for a government which presumed to take office in 1975 to bring integrity back into government in Australia? What an absolute sham this is. Now we have the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Lynch,  after eight months on the sideline as the nineteenth man, coming back into the Parliament to tell us about what he will do and about the people of Australia wanting us to talk about the real issues. This matter has been orchestrated absolutely beautifully by the Government. In reply to questions the Prime Minister said today: 'I will make a statement. I will not say anything at this stage'. The procedures and the decency of this House demand that the Opposition be given two hours' notice of any ministerial statement to be made by the Government. But on this occasion no statement is issued and no notice is given. No one is notified of the position. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  does not come near Opposition members to say what will happen. We have the Prime Minister saying, 'I refuse to answer questions on this matter'. But when honourable members on this side of the House pressurise the Prime Minister to say something about the matter, all of a sudden the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who recently returned from Manila after making several thousand phone calls to  Senator Withers,  come into the House with prepared speeches. I ask honourable members: Is it not amazing that the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister should have prepared speeches in their pockets on the off-chance that they might have to make speeches about  Senator Withers  and the Royal Commission into the electoral redistribution in Queensland? Why is it done today? No one has to ask the question twice. There are no prizes for guessing why the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister, acting as decently as they always do, have prepared speeches in their hands without giving notification to the Opposition. They are hoping that tomorrow the people of Australia will be talking about the extra 10c that it will cost to buy a packet of cigarettes or about the price of whisky or petrol or whatever else will be done tonight to try to damage the economy even further. They do not want the Royal Commission into the Queensland electoral redistribution mentioned by the public in Australia tomorrow. They do not want this matter to carry on because it threatens the Government more than has any other issue since the Government came to power at the end of 1 975. 
The Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister say: 'We have meetings of Ministers on several occasions'. The Ministers they are getting together are those who agree to carry out the directions of the Prime Minister. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is left out, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is left out, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is left out. The Prime Minister gets his few friends together to carry out his directions. The meeting of Ministers just adds to the conspiracy charge which is made against this Government. People on the government benches- led by a number of senators- ask what is so serious about  Senator Withers  ringing the Chief Electoral Officer. It is only that the chief judicial officer in the land says that it is a criminal act. That is what is so serious about it. Trying to influence the electoral commissioners is what is so serious about it. But that is not the only point. The  Deputy  Prime Minister says: 'It is not serious because I have just had a chat to our mate in the Country Party in Queensland and we would not have stood against Eric Robinson'. One has to be joking to believe the Country Party. The honourable member for McPherson has been at war with the Country Party for 20 years, but the  Deputy  Prime Minister expects the national Parliament to believe that sort of claptrap. The  Deputy  Prime Minister says: 'It is not serious because we were not going to stand for the seat, irrespective of what it was called'. That is not Queensland politics. The  Deputy  Prime Minister knows it and certainly the honourable member for McPherson knows it. That is why action was taken. 
It is completely unsatisfactory. Who is going to  accept that because the Prime Minister has a bad memory everything is clear? These people of such integrity who flew Khemlani out to Australia, went through his briefcases and booked him into the Lakeside Hotel, these people who act with such decency, these people like the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party who tell us now that the Australians want them to get on with the job, do not have answers to the questions. It is not the end of the matter. The Government has brought on this matter today and hopes that it will be submerged as a result of tonight's Budget. I completely agree with that. The Budget will be of enormous importance to the Australian people, but the Government cannot get out of this matter because it has raised the matter today and because it has orchestrated the matter in such a way. 
Let us examine the background briefing given by  Senator Withers  after his dismissal because it tells us a great deal about this rotten Government. It tells us about the relationships between Ministers and about the sort of trust that honourable members opposite have in this Prime Minister whom they are defending today. Apparently background briefings will tell us what is occurring in the Government; official statements, handouts and parliamentary speeches do not do so. An article headed  'Senator Withers  secret briefing' states: 
In an extraordinarily frank briefing for journalists a day after his sacking,  Senator Reginald  Withers accused the Prime Minister of having attempted a cover-up over the Queensland redistribution controversy. 

 Senator Withers also gave a surprising explanation of  Mr Fraser's  motives in dumping him from the Ministry- an explanation which had nothing to do with  Mr Justice  McGregor's Royal Commission report. 
Malcolm sacked me because I stopped him from sacking Phil Lynch,'  Senator Withers  told a group of about 20 journalists invited to his Parliament House office on the afternoon of Tuesday, 8 August. 
Those journalists who were there accepted that the briefing was on a background basis- that what was said was not to be attributed to  Senator Withers. 
In order not to be inhibited by such ground rules I did not attend the briefing. One of those who did attend read me his notes afterwards. 
The article goes on. That is the briefing given by  Senator Withers.  What it goes on to say, of course, is that  Senator Withers  drafted letters about the investigation which should have been held in January but which the Government refused to hold. We still did not know until this article was printed that the Prime Minister had said: 
I don't want to go down this track. We'll be able to deal with this internally. 
I repeat what the Prime Minister said: 
I don't want to go down this track. We'll be able to deal with this internally. 
When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Opposition and I raised this matter time and again in the first few weeks of the Parliament after the matter had been raised by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  the Government refused to deal with it because it was acting on the Prime Minister's instruction that it would be dealt with internally. The meeting that took place in the Prime Minister's office was not so much a meeting as an instruction from the Godfather to the honourable member for Fadden that he was not to proceed. The Prime Minister found the honourable member for Fadden guilty without a trial. The honourable member for Fadden raised a complaint about what had happened in Queensland and he was dismissed from his position in this Parliament without a trial. 
That is the sort of action that was taken by the Prime Minister to clam up this matter. It was not to get out into the Parliament and it was not to get out into the public. Well, it is out in the public and it is in the Parliament. We have a responsibility to see that it continues to be raised until we have a full explanation. We on this side of the House, together with many people opposite will not accept it. Even some of the people opposite who are not being bribed about going into the Ministry, which is old hat, will not accept it. We will not be bribed on the basis that the Prime Minister cannot remember what happened. Is not that convenient? Is not that beautiful? Can honourable members imagine the Prime Minister of Australia talking to an international forum and saying: 'I am sorry we went into Vietnam. I forgot we went there. It is terrible. I am sorry I said that we would maintain Medibank. I forgot I said it. I am sorry I said that under the Liberals everybody would have a job. I did not mean to say it; I forgot that I said it'. 
Here is the Prime Minister expecting 124 of the most seasoned political people in this country to accept that he does not remember and that clears his name. Sacco and Vanzetti would wish they had the Prime Minister representing them. It is not accepted by this side of the House. This is not the end of the matter. It will not end until we have an explanation from the person who leads this Government as to his role in the cover-up of the electoral redistribution in Queensland, about what he was doing, what he said and what in fact, in truth, he recollects. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Which of the former Liberal Party members of parliament who hold office as judges, ambassadors, high commissioners and administrators receive their parliamentary pensions  (Hansard,  16 February 1977, pages 116-118). 
Does the Prime Minister recall that prior to the last election he made a statement that unemployment would start to fall in February and continue to fall? I now ask: In the light of the Budget and the economic situation that will exist for the next year, what are the Government'sestimates for unemployment in early 1979? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, unless the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  comes into this House to deny this story he is finished. 
Unless he comes into this House to deny the story printed in the  Bulletin  on Wednesday of this week he will need more than the numbers to protect him. It will not be any good moving the gag on people who want to speak in this Parliament. The Prime Minister will be finished. 
-This debate reminds me of the story of the burning of the Reichstag. The extreme right wing, in order to take the attention of the people away from the more serious issues, tries to blame the Opposition for what has occurred in Australia. Last Wednesday, when the impact of the 1978-79 Budget became known to the people of Australia, there was revolt amongst the wage and salary earners of this country and amongst the families of this country and there were celebrations in the stock exchanges and by foreign investors. The Budget clearly was designed to divide the Australian nation. That is exactly what it has done. It is a pity for the Liberal Party and for some of the more outspoken members of the Country Party that we do not always play by their rules. We had a good bellyfull of their rules in 1975, with the conspiracy that went on to block the Budget and with the arrangements that were made so that the Government of that day was forced to go to an election at a time which was most beneficial to the Liberal and Country parties. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  thinks the Budget is so beneficial and is being so well received, why does the Government now not go to the people and see whether it can get endorsement? Let me assure honourable members opposite of what will happen when two State governments next go to the polls. As a result of this Budget the Wran Government in New South Wales will be returned with a vast majority and the Hamer Government in Victoria will be defeated. 
Members of the Liberal Party talk about violence in the streets. They are absolutely beside themselves. They are absolutely delighted that a few people out of the 10,000 who attended the meeting at the Sydney Town Hall yesterday attacked the Stock Exchange. There is absolutely no connection between the people who went to the Stock Exchange and the people who organised the rally. There is no connection between what happened at the Stock Exchange and anything that was said at the rally. I seek leave, once again, to have the speech made yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave not granted. 
All honourable members opposite want to talk about is the 120 or 130 people who went to the Stock Exchange. Violence also occurred at a football match between North Melbourne and Carlton held in Melbourne on Saturday. Do honourable members know what caused that violence? The Prime Minister turned up to watch the game. If he had stayed away from the football no violence at all would have occurred. There was violence in Brisbane. Do honourable members know why violence occurred in Brisbane? It occurred because the people who live in Queensland want the right to be able to march. The Queensland Government takes the attitude that every time an individual in Queensland steps off the footpath he is a criminal and has to be put in gaol. So much for the rights and civil liberties expressed by honourable members opposite. 
What will people do about this Budget? Will they say that they have to play by the Liberal and Country Party rules and have to stay at work by the machines and keep doing all the things that this Government wants them to do, when in return for the effort that they put into their work their wages will be reduced by 10 percent? If the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had the gall to bring in a decision that had the same impact on wages as the Budget brought in by this Government last Tuesday there would be even greater strife than we have seen in Australia already. Obviously, the peaceful rallies that have been held have worked. Today the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had to admit that one of the vilest features of the Budget, an incomes test on children, is to be reviewed. Do honourable members know why that is being reviewed? It is being reviewed because of the rallies and because people went out and frightened the back benchers on the Government side about what was going to happen at the next election. The decision is being reviewed because people came to understand that policemen were to be sent after the local newspaper boys to see how much they were earning. What twisted mind in the Government came up with that idea? What on earth gave substance to the belief that those people who sit on the back benches, spineless as they may be, ought to support a measure that would send public servants, acting as policemen, around this country to see how much money children were earning, so that if they were earning over $6 a week the mother could be fined by way of a reduction in her family allowance? That is the first victory for the rallies. We warned the Government about this last week. There will be more victories. 
Do honourable members opposite think that public servants will take a drop in their living standards of 6 or 7 per cent under the threat of dismissal? Are they serious in their belief that that is what will occur in Australia? They would have to have rocks in their heads if they thought that 250,000 workers in the Public Service of this country would bow to the dictates of this Government; that unless they and their families accepted a substantial reduction in their living standards they would be dismissed. That is another one of the smelly features of the 1 978-79 Budget. 
Let us have a look at some of the other reasons why people may want to talk about the Budget. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  says that we should just talk about it quietly in this House, that we should not be taking action about it outside this House. Let me remind him that there are no women in the House of Representatives. Fifty per cent of the electorate is constituted of women. Women want some say about what the Government is doing to the incomes that come into their homes. Women, as well as other members of the community, are having their say outside this House in rallies. Yesterday a peaceful rally was held outside the office of the honourable member for Boothby,  Mr McLeay.  I can tell the House the names of 20 people who were there. They rang me yesterday morning. They were dismissed from the City Brick Works Co. Pty Ltd. They were told, when they were given their week's notice yesterday morning, that City Bricks was hoping that there would be something in the Budget for the building industry. As there was nothing in the Budget for the building industry the company was going to start laying off its workers as from yesterday morning. Yesterday morning those 20 men from the brickyards went to demonstrate outside John McLeay 's office against the Budget. 
What does the Government think people will do? It has been warned for so long- since it has been in office for  Vh  years- that if it keeps building up unemployment there will be more social disorder. The situation has nothing to do with the Australian Labor Party or any other political party; it has something to do with the attitudes of people who are condemned to be unemployed. Some of them will be unemployed perhaps for the rest of their .lives. Others who leave school after 12 to 16 years of intensive education, will be unemployed for a year or more. What sort of an attitude does the Government think these people will take? When handing down the Budget last week the Government discriminated against them again. It says that it is not going to index the unemployment benefit for a single person. People want to know about these things. They want to know how a government can be so twisted as to make a decision like that at the same time as the Prime Minister makes a decision to spend $40 m on new aircraft in which to travel overseas. What is going on in the Government that brings about such results? What about taxation? What does the Government expect people to say? It was only a few months ago that the Liberal Party spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on a newspaper photograph of a person holding a big bundle of $5 notes and saying: 'If you vote Liberal, this is what you will get in February'. There is nothing in the hand now. Not only is there nothing in the hand but there is less in the hand than there was before the election. The Australian people have to protest about these lies, the deception and the deviousness that is being practised. 
This is the sort of thing that the people are rallying about. They do not accept the 1978-79 Budget; they are going to discuss it. Many people do not realise that although they are paying the increased rate of taxation it is not coming out of their pay packets yet. They have yet to understand that they will have to pay 12 months' extra tax from the first pay period in November- 12 months' tax in an eight-month period. Workers earning between $ 1 14 and $238 a week- the majority of wage and salary earners in this countrywill be paying 8 per cent more tax from the first pay period in November. The honourable member for Dundas says: 'Let us discuss it in here. Do not let anybody out in the workshop say anything. You are only talking about the living standards of people in this country. Why should they have any say? They do not elect us to this House so that they cannot touch us or talk to us'. That is not the game at all. They put us in here to represent them. If the honourable member for Dundas goes back to his electorate he will find that there are many people there who are not so terribly happy. Let him go a little distance from his electorate to the harshly hit areas in the western suburbs of Sydney or to the electorate of Werriwa to campaign in the by-election and tell the people there that he does not want them to discuss the Budget. Let him tell them that he is not concerned about unemployment. Let him tell them that he is not concerned about the fact that 50 per cent of unemployed people in Liverpool are under 24 years of age and that Australia has the second highest unemployment rate in the Western world amongst people under 24 years of age. He should tell them that sort of thing and not carry on with the lies that have been told or the distortions that have been made about a few people who went to the Sydney Stock Exchange after a peaceful rally had been addressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the Premier of New South Wales. There is a lot more to be said about the situation and about what will happen in Australia. I will read to the House a couple of things that the Leader of the Opposition has been saying in past months. They give warning to what sorts of things will occur as a result of this massive unemployment, particularly amongst young people in Australia. In a speech made to the American Chamber of Commerce on 1 1 August the Leader of the Opposition said: 
Furthermore, there are disturbing social costs associated with high, long term unemployment among our young people. These costs have already been identified in some areas by several social surveys in a number of our major cities; drug taking, neurotic behaviour such as attempted suicide, a higher proportion of the young unemployed appearing in the Police courts, and so on. 
Fine young people with good educational qualifications are finding there's no place for them in the work force, the system has failed them. The outer suburbs of the larger capital cities are a stricken wasteland for our young people. Unemployment among the young at Liverpool in Sydney exceeds SO percent. 
Further, in a speech that was made to the Sydney Chamber of Commerce the Leader of the Opposition said: 
To be quite blunt, I believe the union movement has again been forced into the inevitable confrontation with the Government over unreasonable wage compressions both as a  tactic  for the Government's short-term political advantage, and as a diversion for the Government's mismanagement of the economy. 
This debate is a farce. The Liberal Party is delighted that someone went to the Stock Exchange and threw a rock through a window. That is not the tactic or the ploy of the Labor Party. We have logic, right and honesty on our side. We will win this debate. The Liberal Party is delighted with what has happened. It would be delighted if the Prime Minister took action to put some employees of Telecom in gaol. What it does not want, the last thing in the world that it wants, is people throughout Australia being called together to discuss this Budget. It knows that the back down by the Treasurer today in relation to the income test for children is the start; it will snowball. What will be next? Indexation of pensions or, perhaps, the taxation on the long service leave and the annual leave of workers. That hits those workers who do not have any superannuation. The only thing they have to look forward to when they retire after a lifetime of work in industry is their annual and long service leave payment, and some twisted mind in this Government has said: 'Let us take a third of that off them as well '. No wonder people go to rallies, no wonder people get angry, no wonder people will not believe this Government of lies and distortions that we have had in Australia for the last  2Vi  years. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  jumped to his feet to seek leave to make a statement - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
. . . which the Opposition has not had for more than three minutes. 
-The Opposition is opposed to the restriction of the speaking time on this Budget. It is certainly the most controversial Budget the Parliament has had before it in the life of most people who are now serving in the Parliament. There is no justification whatsoever for this motion, other than the very sinister one that there ought to be restriction on speech about the Budget both here and in the party rooms. We do not for one instant agree with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  who said that it is merely to give members more time. The Parliament could sit for longer if it were necessary to give everybody the opportunity to speak. We have been sitting now for two weeks and are adjourning for two weeks. According to all the rumours, the Government is likely to try to get the Parliament up quickly so that there will be as little controversy over this Budget as is possible. This morning's newspaper reports tell us that there is even a total ban on the discussion of the Budget in the Government party room, that now the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is a political ombudsman for all back benchers. They have to line up at the Treasurer's room and go to confession with him, and he then buzzes the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on his little machine and tells him what they have to do. They are not allowed to discuss, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  found out in the party room yesterday, the sort of burden that the Government has placed on the pensioners of Australia. The 
Government is not prepared to discuss it in the party room but now it wants to restrict everyone in the Parliament. 
We do not intend for one instant to become a party to that sort of arrangement. If the Government is sincere about the number of people it wishes to speak on the Government side, let the Parliament sit a little longer. We are not opposed to that idea. Perhaps, if the Government would do that, everybody would have an opportunity. What the Leader of the House says is nonsense. By the time everybody on this side has spoken the Government will have stopped debate on the Budget anyhow. It is not a Budget debate that they are going to allow to go on for weeks and weeks. We have already seen, on Tuesday of this week, how the Government has fallen at the first hurdle- the incomes test on children has already gone. Other measures will go, as there are rallies around Australia and support is given to those who are speaking out against this Budget. Back benchers going home this weekend, unlike the Prime Minister who has not yet spoken to anybody who finds the Budget unsavoury, might find that in their electorates there are a lot of people who are opposed to it. Why honourable members on the other side of the chamber sit there and accept having their time restricted on this most important economic document is beyond me. Certainly, we on this side of the chamber do not accept that proposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-First of all, I would like to object to the very crude manner in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has treated this Parliament. It is a convention of this Parliament that the Opposition is given two hours' notice of any statement to be made by a Minister, including a Prime Minister. On occasions we have bent that rule because we realise that in relation to some of the statements that have to be made there has not necessarily been the time available to give the Opposition two hours' notice. We were informed tonight at 6.15 that a statement would be made by the Prime Minister, after the dinner break, at five past eight and that the statement would be given to us at 7 o'clock. We received that statement exactly two minutes before the Prime Minister came into this chamber. It is not the statement which has been made to the Parliament. Honourable members on the Government benches can accept the very crude fashion in which the Prime Minister treats this Parliament but the people of Australia ought to know the way in which he is doing it. We object to it most strongly. 
This is an extremely important issue. Of course, as is always the case with conservative political parties, the Government parties are delighted to be able to engulf themselves in an industrial dispute. They are delighted when they think that there is some political advantage in involving themselves in getting stuck into a trade union. So the Government embarks on a threat, or an offer which it says the union cannot refuse. It says that on Monday and Tuesday the rank and file members of the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association must vote for a return to work. What a very stupid proposition the Prime Minister of this country has made in this House tonight. He has put the union members on notice that on Monday and Tuesday they must vote to return to work and consequently allow the Prime Minister to say that he has had a great victory. Already one can predict with all the certainty in the world that on Monday and Tuesday, because of the stupidity of the Prime Minister tonight, the men will vote to stay out. He has left them with no alternative- I repeat, no alternative. Why does not the Minister responsible for Telecom - 
-They do not want to listen,  Mr Speaker,  because they know that the Prime Minister has made a very crude error in bringing on this debate tonight, when the negotiations are at a very sensitive stage and when the men will meet on Monday and Tuesday to discuss the sixpoint proposal put by Commissioner Clarkson and to decide what ought to be done. What everybody ought to know is that Telecom Australia, like the back bench supporters of the Government, is merely the lackey of this Prime Minister. Telecom has been carrying out the directions of this Government ever since the dispute started. How else can the Government submerge the Withers issue and the Budget? It needs something to get those two issues off the front page of the newspapers. Telecom is lined up like the back benchers to meet the Prime Minister to see how it can overcome its problems. 
No effort at all has been made by this Government to look seriously at the prime mover of the problem that is now being confronted by Telecom and by the employees of Telecom. Telecom itself has admitted that at the root of the problem is the technological change which is to be introduced into Telecom over the next few years. There is a dispute about how the men in the industry will be de-skilled. There is a dispute over the number of positions that will be lost in 
Telecom over the next seven years. It is not as though Australia has a shortage of a work force. Due to the actions of this Government, there are at the moment 500,000 people who are ready to go to work. We should be looking at the problems and ramifications of the introduction of new technologies into our industries. We have to have running parallel with the introduction of new technologies into all our industries, especially the public utilities, areas of policy that deal with the problems of manpower. This Government has no such policies. When this dispute arose the Government could have moved to have a parliamentary committee look at the introduction of this technology and discuss with the union and Telecom itself what action ought to be undertaken to try to solve this dispute. But not at all. The role of the Government has been to agitate for a deepening of the problem and to provoke the members of the union to stay on strike. 
The Prime Minister said that the members of the ATEA have already lost $ 1 .6m in wages. One would think that he himself would realise that the workers who have been prepared to sacrifice $1.6m in wages up to tonight- that figure is not correct; indeed the figure he gave on the number of people who have been laid off is also incorrect- are making that sort of sacrifice because they view the problem very seriously. They are prepared to continue to be stood down in an effort to have the people of the community, especially the Government of this country, look at the problems concerning the introduction of this new technology. It is not confined to Telecom. It is a threat that hangs over the job security of people who work in banks and insurance companies- in fact, the white collar industry right throughout Australia. This Government shows the same degree of concern for this new problem facing the white collar workers as it has shown for the problems of the blue collar worker. If in a couple of years there happen to be 200,000 or 300,000 people being put out of work in those areas the Prime Minister would be delighted, as he is delighted tonight to have the Telecom dispute take over from the Withers affair and the Budget issues. 
The ATEA has put together a list of the problems that confront the industry. Honourable members opposite would do well to read some of them. The problems inherent in this dispute have been on show for honourable members to understand for some years. The number of people taken on by Telecom at the apprenticeship level has dropped alarmingly in the last three or four years. Only a fraction of the number of people who were being taken on by Telecom five years ago is being taken on today. It is all right for the Government to say that we have to push ahead with technology as quickly as possible, but what is going to happen to the people who are affected by these decisions? The threat to jobs cannot be overcome simply by the Prime Minister saying: We guarantee those who are there that for 10 years they will not lose their jobs '. 
The members of the ATEA have taken up a fight on behalf of a good many people in this country. This is the first time that the Government has brought about discussion of the matter of technological change. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  have not made one statement to this House in 2V4 years about the difficulties facing the work force because of technological change. Everybody knows that the pace we have been setting since the war is only a fraction of the pace at which we will have to go between now and 1990. We will have to find tens of thousands of jobs if we are to be able to place everybody in work, otherwise we will have to follow the philosophy of the Prime Minister and the Liberal Party of good luck to those who have jobs and the dole for those who have not. We on this side of the House say to the Prime Minister and to the Government that the people of the ATEA are taking up a very important fight and Telecom ought to look at it far more seriously than it has to date. The fact that the Prime Minister now wants to involve himself so as to deepen the dispute is an example of how stupidly he is treating this  matter. 
Let us look at what the ATEA says in its summary of the effects on employment in the industry as a result of the introduction of this new technology. It says that Telecom 's plans to introduce computer-controlled telephone exchange equipment will have a major impact on employment opportunities in the exchange maintenance and installation areas of Telecom operators. There will be a subsequent impact on employment opportunities in most other areas, such as clerical, engineering, administration and support staff. The overall reduction in job opportunities planned by Telecom over the next 10 years is of a very significant level when compared with the rate of growth in the industry and the level of unemployment existing in Australia. There will also be a subsequent impact on employment levels in the private manufacturing sector of the telecommunications industry. If processes existed to provide a more public evaluation of Telecom's plan, which is a very important aspect and a responsibility which the Parliament itself ought to take up so as to enable it to evaluate the decision of Telecom, the impact on employment opportunities could be significant enough to weigh heavily against the computerisation of the network at this time. The immense number of job opportunities in Telecom lost to the community by the introduction of new technology in telecommunications should be the cause of national concern. The union demands that an examination be conducted of, firstly, the rate of introduction of new technology and, secondly, the ability of the economy to create alternative employment opportunities, which is the point which I made earlier. 
As I was saying, the union says that one of the most important aspects of this dispute is the ability of the economy to create alternative employment opportunities. We on this side of the House know, as do people throughout Australia, that we cannot hold back the introduction of new technology in the fields that have been important to Australia since the war. It was very important for us at a time when manpower was short to introduce technology as quickly as possible. The great fear that we on this side of the House have always had is that Australia is technologically derivative. We have been relying almost entirely upon the multinationals which operate in this country to give us the level of technology which they themselves see Australia fit to have. We have never had the technology to compete with their parent companies outside Australia and we have never had a government that is prepared to commit itself to building up the work force in this country to develop the technology that Australian industries may have. We accept willy-nilly that this is going to occur. We have reached the crossroads as far as technology is concerned. We have reached the crossroads as far as putting people into poverty is concerned. We have also reached the crossroads as far as the growing employment is concerned. 
Why on earth does the Government not take seriously the solving of this dispute by setting up a parliamentary committee to look at the impact on Telecom and at the impact on the work force of the introduction of this technology? Why does it not let the Parliament understand better the fundamental changes that will take place so that the Parliament itself can get some grasp of what is likely to occur in this white collar area throughout Australia? For a long time people have believed that technology cannot affect the work opportunities. It has been said in Australia that, as the manufacturing industry and the rural industry take up less and less of the labour force in this country, the service industries- the tertiary industries- will take up those who become available for employment. But now the transfer is not quite so easy. We cannot transfer people overnight from the manufacturing industry to the tertiary industry. It is not possible to transfer the thousands of people who have left manufacturing industry because of technological change to areas that cannot take on the additional work force. We now have the problem that the white collar area- the tertiary area itself- is building into its framework a technology as a result of which it will need a smaller and smaller work force. We will have a work force of about 7 million people in a few years time and jobs for about 5.5 million people. 
The Government ought to be taking this problem seriously because there is an enormous threat to the jobs of people who work in these areas. It is wrong of the Government to try to provoke or stand over the members of the union who are to meet on Monday and Tuesday by saying: 'If you do not do so and so- vote to go back to work- we will deregister you'. I challenge any honourable member opposite to walk out of this chamber tonight and ring Laurie Short of the Federated Ironworkers Association, Norm Gallagher of the Builders ' Labourers Federation, Pat Clancy from the Building Workers Industrial Union or any of the secretaries of the unions which have been deregistered and ask him what deregistering a union proves. Ask them what on earth is achieved by deregistering a union. It achieves absolutely nothing. A situation of confrontation in which the communications of this country come to a standstill will be reached because of the stupidity of the Prime Minister tonight. 
Instead of taking the bull by the horns in terms of looking at the problem now faced by ATEA members- that problem is soon to be faced by thousands of other people working in these areas, including members of the Public Service, the employees of this Government- the Government refuses to recognise the inherent problem in technological change. It says: 'Where there is a dispute between an employer and union members, we are always on the side of the employer. The employer is always right'. That is the infallible gospel of a Liberal conservative government. It does not worry about the 27,000 members of a union. It does not concern itself with the fact that they are prepared to sacrifice $1.6m in wages. It says: 'That is just not significant. The men are wrong'. I suggest to the Prime Minister that this problem goes far deeper than just the Telecom dispute. The matter has been handled very badly by Telecom. It has been handled even worse by the Government of the day and far worse by the Prime Minister. He deserves the condemnation of every person who works in an area like Telecom and who in the next few years will suffer the very same fate and the very same problem that members of the ATEA are facing today. 
-The latest unemployment figures are a disaster for Australia and Australians. This Government is playing the role of Pontius Pilate on the issue. It washes its hands in the hope that the blame and the responsibility for this massive unemployment in Australia and the threat to job security will be shifted elsewhere. What we are witnessing in Australia today is social madness carried out consciously and deliberately by this Government on a grand scale. The plight of those already unemployed or the anguish of those hundreds of thousands of Australians who are now feeling threatened in their employment continues to be ignored by this Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  both of whom are devoid of social conscience. The rhetoric of this Government is aimed solely at misleading the electorate. This Government is capable of saying anything in order to hide its own shameful lack of policy. 'Only under the Liberals would there be work for all who want it '. Does that not have a familiar ring to it? It is the promise of the Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, in December 1975. In the past three years of Fraserism there has not been the slightest attempt to deal with the problems of the unemployed. 
What is the real position? In August 1978, according to the most recent figures available from the Bureau of Statistics, 396,000 people were registered as actively seeking employment in Australia. In seasonally adjusted terms, in Australia at the end of August there were 418,000 people out of work-68,000 more than in July 1977, just prior to the last Federal election. There are 22 people out of work in this country for every vacancy. The August figures show that there was a growth of 7,400 in the number of young people looking for their first job, which means that parents and young people at school are prepared to sacrifice the completion of their education in the hope that they will be able to find employment before the rush comes at the end of this year. So education has gone up in the air as young people search for their first job. 
The most recent statement on this issue by the Government was contained in the Budget. The Government told us that over the next yearfrom August 1978 to August 1979- it expected the growth in the work force to be something like 0.5 per cent or in the vicinity of 30,000 people, but that the growth in the labour force was going to be 2 per cent or 120,000 people. So, on the Government's own admission, over the next year a further 90,000 people will have to be put out of work in this country. In the last 72 hours, the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has called for a national inquiry. He is not the first to do so and he will not be the last. Even the close colleagues of this Government in the States are becoming increasingly concerned about the lack of concern in this Parliament for the unemployed and the threat to those who already have jobs. Day by day  Mr Hamer  comes closer to an election in his own State. He is feeling the thrust of the Government's policies- not just in the Budget but also at the last Premiers Conference. 
In the last financial year, the South Australian Government spent $26m putting people to work on special State unemployment relief schemes. As a result of the last Premiers Conference, the South Australian Government will have to trim the amount to something like $5m for 1978-79. Hundreds of people in South Australia have been thrown into unemployment because this Government refuses to co-operate with any State government that does anything for the unemployed. The Federal Government will not even subsidise relief schemes on a dollar-for-dollar basis, in spite of the fact that those people who are put to work on unemployment relief schemes within the States must pay taxes to the Federal Government. The Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  is feeling the pinch. The South Australian Government has said already that, as a result of the last Premiers Conference, there will be more and more unemployment in South Australia. That is happening because this Government is not prepared to do anything at all about this question. 
Let us analyse the statement of the Prime Minister of December of last year that from February of this year the level of unemployment would fall and would continue to fall. The August figures which I have just cited have already given lie to that claim. There are more unemployed today than there were in February of this year. Some people might be attracted to the argument by saying: 'Well,  Mr Fraser  was almost right. The unemployment in August was almost the same as it was in February of this year'. That was record unemployment. Let us look at the facts on unemployment. This Government is pushing people permanently out of the work force. Between February 1978 and June 1978 the total labour work force fell by 25,000 people, that is, from 61.7 per cent to 61 per cent of the civilian population aged 1 5 years and over. The number of people at work in June of this year was less than the number of people at work in February of this year. In February 1977, the labour force was 62.5 per cent of the population aged 15 years or over. A return to that figure of 1977 would add 157,000 people to the work force today. So 157,000 should be added to the unemployment figures just over the last 20 months. 
We on this side of the House believe that it is our duty to inform people outside this House that although they may feel that it is absolutely hopeless to try to find employment, whether they be young persons leaving educational institutions, married women returning to the home or persons approaching retirement, they should continue to register for employment, in spite of the fact that they may not be entitled to any of the benefits under the present means test. Everybody in Australia should continue to register for employment. That is his entitlement as a citizen. If all the people registered for employment between February 1977 and June 1978 had continued to be registered, to actively seek employment in this country, the August unemployment figure would not be 396,000; it would be 540,000. 
Let us look at some of the things that are occurring. People say that the level of unemployment amongst the young is dwindling. Unemployment amongst the young did decline from February 1 978. At ages 1 5 to 1 9 years it dropped from 175,400 or 21,2 per cent in February to 124,900 or 16 per cent in May and to 1 19,900 in June. At ages 20 to 24 years it declined from 93,500 or 9.8 per cent in February to 79,600 or 8.5 per cent in May, but rose to 82,200 in June. These declines were not matched by increases in employment. Between February and June the number of 15 to 24-year-olds in jobs fell by 3,900. The one great thing that this Government will not tell the people is that it is forcing people out of the work force. It is forcing people into believing that it is absolutely hopeless to continue to look for employment. The reason we have 396,000 registered unemployed instead of 540,000 registered unemployed is that people believe it is hopeless to continue to look for employment. In the period I mentioned there was a withdrawal of young people from the labour force. There was a disappearance of 50,100 people aged between 15 and 19 from the work force. This represents a drop in participation for that group of from 65.2 per cent to 6 1 . 1 per cent. There were 18,200 fewer people aged from 20 to 24 in the work force. The participation rate for that group is down from 81.1 per cent to 79. 1 per cent. The decline in unemployment for the young is illusory. It has been achieved by their withdrawal from the labour force. Indeed, the only way in which the Prime Minister can say that he has some grasp on the unemployment situation in Australia is found in the fact that people are not registering for employment. In one union in South Australia, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, over the last two years, 300 young people registered with that union have had their apprenticeships broken as industry closed down. Three hundred people who signed their indentures to start apprenticeships have had them stopped under the policies of this Government. 
Thousands of women who were in the work force, because they cannot claim unemployment benefit, do not continue to register for employment. All these things add up to the fact that unemployment in this country is far worse than the Government is prepared to admit. All the information on unemployment which one has is available to the Government. The Telecom Australia dispute acted like a hydrogen bomb as far as the community was concerned, in awakening it to the threat of technology, what it means and how it has to be handled. But what does the Government do? The Prime Minister came into the Parliament and in trying to handle the dispute gave a very good impression of a Nareen bull. It does not take that sort of activity for people to understand that we have a government that is not concerned at all about the massive unemployment problem in this country. 
Technology is a massive threat and it ought to be dealt with by the Parliament. In the absence of parliamentary sittings over the last two weeks and in the light of the experience of people in the Telecom dispute the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  moved to set up an interdepartmental committee. He completely ignored the Parliament, and completely opted out of the responsibility of doing what ought to be done. He completely opted out of the appointment of a national inquiry into the imposition of new technology on this country. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet is not represented on the committee nor are the educational authorities. The interdepartmental committee will come to absolutely nothing. People have questions about the jobs that will be lost in the years ahead. 
This Government is building an army of unemployed with which it is prepared to continue to live. The future under Fraser is black with a capital B. On the latest population projectionsallowing for an immigration target of 70,000 persons annually and assuming that we return to the participation rates of February 1 978 which were much lower than those for 1977 or 1976- the work force can be expected to rise from 6,384,200 in 1978 to 7,000,000 in 1981. That represents a 9.6 per cent increase in three years or 3.2 per cent per annum. To return to the unemployment rate of 1.5 per cent, the number of jobs will have to be increased by 5 per cent in each of those three years. The Prime Minister is ignoring the challenge that lies ahead for this country. He is deliberately building up an army of unemployed. Areas like the western suburbs of Sydney are foreign to him and, as such, are the pivot of his hatred for wage and salary earners. In the Liverpool area 50 per cent of those people who are unemployed are under 24 years of age. 
In the Western world, with which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has just asked us to compare ourselves, next to Italy we have the highest unemployment rate among people under 24 years of age. It would be much higher if all people under 24 years of age who could not find employment would go to the local Commonwealth Employment Service office and register for work. I urge them all to do that. Anybody who is out of work but who would like to go to work should register as quickly as possible so that we can emphasise to the Government the real position with unemployment in this country. The Prime Minister late last year promised that no one in manufacturing industry would lose his job. Would he like to compare his statements with the realistic statements made by the Australian Labor Party about the impact of the subsidy which is being paid by the Government to buy new machinery. From June 1977 to June 1978 33,000 jobs were lost in manufacturing industry. From June 1976 to June 1978, a period of Liberal-National Country Party Government, 73,700 jobs were lost in manufacturing industry. So much for the promise of the Prime Minister to maintain jobs in that area. 
In the construction industry 18,500 jobs are gone. Who is next to go under the hammer? It will be the Government's own employees, the public servants. They have been told in the Budget that there will be a further slashing of 2,800 jobs in the Public Service on top of the 12,000 jobs that have disappeared since this Government came to office. Over the last couple of years under this Government private employment has dropped by 70,000. There are 70,000 fewer people working in private industry today- it is the God of this Government- than there were when the Government came to power. Something drastic must be done about this unemployment situation and about the social scar that it is leaving. It is no good the Liberal Party in New South Wales running scare advertisements about people taking drugs. Part of the responsibility for young people taking drugs in this country today can be aimed fairly and squarely at this Government which is doing nothing about unemployment. 
-In the couple of minutes that are available to me, I participate in the discussion that has taken place tonight about the rights of people to join and not to join unions. I think that all unions recognise that there are people in the community who hold very deep religious beliefs about not joining trade unions. But it is astounding that Government members spend a lot of time talking about one or two people who are glorying in publicity for not joining a trade union but never mention the  millions of people who are members of trade unions. One of the reasons this present fiasco will not continue is that the employers will not let it continue. The cost to industry of allowing this sort of problem to continue and of allowing people to be attracted to the idea that they can get some cheap publicity easily by merely saying that they are conscientious objectors is great. Something has to be done about it. A mechanism has to be found. 
Last year when the Government amended the Conciliation and Arbitration Act we told it that what it was doing in widening the sections of the Act so that the Registrar virtually had to grant exemption was going to lead to trouble. So it has. But it seems to me that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ought to provide for the appropriate trade union to be involved in the granting of exemption, as well as perhaps the appropriate employer and the Registrar. The Government is sadly lacking in an understanding of the relationship that exists between employers and employees in Australia today if it thinks it is going to allow this sort of argument to interfere with a relationship that might have gone on for many years. 
Substantial industries in this country are described by both employers and employees as closed shops'. It suits the employer as much as it suits the employee that a person who is going to work in one of these industries is a member of an organisation that is covered by the award in the establishment before that person commences work. But the conscientious objection can be recognised within the confines of that industrial relations that exist at the plant. If the Government thinks it is continually going to be able to push these people who have in the widest terms an objection to joining a trade union in order to break down what has been the relationship established over many years it is going to find that that sort of action just will not work. 
-This Government is a government of gross deceit and dishonesty, and that dishonesty and deceit has been exposed in this House on a number of occasions over the last two and a half years by members of this side of the House. The culmination of this exposure came on Thursday of last week when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made a statement to the House. For the first time this House and this nation were told the truth about unemployment and the problems which will confront people leaving educational institutions and seeking employment next year and into the 1980s. It was the first time this House had been told the truth. An extraordinary feature of this matter is that the media since last Thursday has given weight to what I say. Editorials in a number of newspapers throughout Australia have congratulated the Minister for telling the truth. Apparently one Minister out of 27 Ministers has been picked out and congratulated for telling the truth. 
A number of editorials took Opposition spokesmen to task for being too harsh on the Minister. The Opposition criticised the Minister for having waited almost three years to tell the truth. The Opposition was criticised for doing this. The media said that we ought to be thankful that now the Minister is telling the truth. But what about all the lies that have been told to the Australian people in that three year period since the Government took office? What about the Ministers who have been involved in deceiving the Australian community in that three year period? What do the editorial writers of the media have to say about those people? The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, notwithstanding a squabble that took place in Cabinet during which a number of senior Ministers did not even want him to make the statement, told us what the Labor Party has been telling Australia for three years. The Labor Party has been saying that unless the Government does something about job creation in this country we will have complete chaos in the early 1980s. We are not talking about half a million unemployed as we are predicting for early 1979; we are talking about one million people who will be out of work; we are talking about people in their early twenties who have never found employment since they left school. 
The Minister, by telling the truth, by not carrying on the deceit and the dishonesty which one associates so much with this Government, has ratified all the things that we said. He is the only one yet to have done so. No other Minister has come out in support of him although I suspect that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who has been given the task this afternoon of speaking in this debate, will associate himself with what the Minister has said. 
How painful it must have been for the Government to admit that unemployment is a real problem, that unemployment is leaving a social scar and that it is going to get worse. According to the Minister there is no bright future next year for young people leaving school or colleges; there is no bright future the year after; and there is no bright future into the 1980s. I ask honourable members to read the Minister's speech- read the first statement of truth to come from this Government, the first statement that cannot be condemned as another big lie. 
Why would the Government make this statement eight or nine months after the last election? No doubt there is some sort of political advantage in the timing of the statement. Obviously the Government would hope that by 1980 when the Australian people are called on to vote again the electorate will say: 'Oh,  Mr Street  told us in 1978 it was going to become worse; there is nothing that can be done about it; we have to accept it'. The statement, quite ironically, was made in support of the Budget. The statement by the Minister- the 'truth' as the media calls it- was made in support of a Budget brought down by the Treasurer, who will speak next in the debate. The Budget does absolutely nothing about employment. The statement suggests that another 100,000 people will be out of work as a result of the Budget. The Minister waited until last Thursday at the conclusion of the debate on the Budget to tell us the truth. This Government ought to be condemned for the lies, not congratulated on one issue for having told the truth. 
Let us have a look at some of the statements that have been made in respect of this matter. The first statement I want to quote was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who ever since he became Leader of the Opposition told us that we needed to change the Labor Government for a government under his leadership. He said that was all that was required in the first place. Scapegoat No. 1 has now gone because the Prime Minister cannot claim now that a change of government is the answer when we consider what his Government has achieved after having been in power for three years. The second claim made by the Prime Minister was: As soon as we get inflation down unemployment will be reduced'. Scapegoat No. 2- lie No. 2- has gone because the Government's boast about reducing inflation has not been equalled by its performance on employment and in creating employment opportunities. On 6 December 1977, at the height of the election campaign, the Prime Minister had this to say: 
Our consistent economic strategy is to getting Australia back to work and from February there will be a sustained and long-term reduction in unemployment in Australia. We are reducing inflation, reducing interest rates, protecting industry, cutting taxes - 
That is a big joke- and encouraging investment and development. All this means jobs- permanent jobs- for Australians who want to work. 
This was part of the big lie to the Australian electorate last year to get people to vote for the Government But now the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has exposed all that fabrication by his statement of truth to the 
House last week. The Prime Minister during the election campaign also said: 
Because we have reduced inflation the tax cuts will create more jobs because people can spend more, our factories will have to produce more. There will be a demand for more employees. That is why, from next February, unemployment will fall and keep on falling. We are determined to foster Australian industry's new-found vitality. 
Just recall what the Prime Minister had to say. It is a whole scheme, a whole avenue of lies which were told to the Australian people about what the Government is going to do as far as employment was concerned. The Prime Minister said that factories would produce more because of tax cuts. But what has happened to the tax cuts now? If the theory is true that factories will produce more because of tax cuts, this means that factories will have to produce less from the first week after November 1978 because people will have to pay a lot more tax. Everybody earning between $1 14 a week and $300 a week will have to pay 8 per cent more tax. That will be the rundown of the factories according to the Government's theory and the theory of the Prime Minister. What did the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations tell the House on Thursday of last week? Let us compare that with the statements of the Prime Minister. On 14 September, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said: 
There are no signs of any immediate significant improvement in the employment situation. On present indications it seems likely that a new peak will be reached in JanuaryFebruary 1979 . . . 
If new jobs were created at an average of 130,000 a year for each of the next five years, we could expect to reduce unemployment to about 4.S per cent. 
He said that if we could create 130,000 jobs in the next five years that unemployment would be reduced. Do honourable members opposite know how many jobs the Treasurer told us in the Budget would be created this year. He said that 30,000 jobs will be created by this Budget. That means that unemployment will go up above the 6.2 per cent which it is at the moment, not down to 4.5 per cent. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations prepares the way also for conditioning the Australian people into believing that there will be a great deal more and permanent unemployment. The night before the Minister made his statement the Prime Minister was interviewed by  Mr Willesee  on the channel 7 television program  Willesee at Seven.  What did the Prime Minister say then? He said: 
Training schemes . . . together with increased profitability of Australian industry, would mean anybody who wanted to work would have opportunities opened up for them. 
That also appears in the  Age  of next day. I ask honourable members to compare the remarks that anybody who wanted to work would have opportunities opened up for them with remarks made the night before by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations when he told us that we had to create 130,000 jobs in the next five years to reduce unemployment to 4.5 per cent of the work force. Who is telling the truth? On our side of the House, we say that the Minister finally has come to the conclusion that the truth ought to be made known to the Australian people. If the Minister is telling the truth, the Prime Minister is telling lies. There is no other word for it. Inside or outside the Parliament the Prime Minister has told lies, all along the line, to the Australian people. Let us examine what the Minister said later in his speech. He said: 
The trend in private sector employment, where the major improvement in employment opportunities must take place has also been steadily downward; it has fallen 48,000 in the last twelve months. 
This Government cannot blame the Labor Government for what has happened in the last 12 months, from August 1977 to August 1978. That is a period of total Liberal-National Country Party Government. Employment in the private sector in Australia in that period is down by 48,000. Compare that with the promise of the Prime Minister when interviewed by Michael Willesee. In his speech, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations stated: 
While the actual decline in employment was concentrated in the manufacturing industry, employment growth across all industries has been stagnant over this period. 
I ask honourable members to compare the remarks of the Minister with what the Prime Minister has been telling the people of Australia. This joke has to end. People are entitled to know the truth and this Government must have pressure put on it to do something about job creation programs. It cannot go on predicting this sort of fatality for the people of Australia and, at the same time, bring down economic strategies such as those contained in the Budget which does absolutely nothing about them. 
Let us have a look at youth unemployment about which the Prime Minister also is telling lies. Of male workers aged 16 to 19 in the full time labour force, 17 per cent in Australia is unemployed. The Government must be very proud of the fact that 1 7 per cent of 1 5 to 1 9 year olds in this country is unemployed. Amongst the young females 1 5 to 1 9 years of age, 17.6 per cent is unemployed. That is the second highest figure in the Western world. That is the achievement of this Government- a government of deceit and dishonesty, a government whose Prime Minister, as I said, is telling lies and who now criticises and overrules the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations for having the cheek and the audacity to tell the Australian people the truth. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Port Adelaide has been given considerable indulgence in his manner of expression. I remind him that the word 'lie' is somewhat anathema to this Parliament and that if he feels inclined - 
-It is not for the Prime Minister. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. In Australia as a whole,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
Of course, you would not be satisfied. 
-He has not taken a point of order. 

 Mr YOUNG I withdraw. 
I do. 
Let us have a look at what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said further. I am not worried about the pedantics of this debate. Honourable members can make up their own minds about the Prime Minister. I certainly have and the people of Australia have. The statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is the most important statement made by this Government in almost three years because, as the media has stated, the Minister is to be congratulated for telling the truth. Let us have a look at the other implications of the Minister's statement. At page 1032 of  Hansard,  he said: 
Unemployment is a social as well as an economic problem. Some 1 6 per cent of the labour force aged between 1 S and 1 9 years of age  is  unemployed. The periods of unemployment are lengthening noticeably and the percentage next year of unemployed in this age bracket could be even higher. 
The Minister responsible for this area is telling us that the 16 per cent to 17 per cent unemployed in that age group will be much higher in 1979. Tell the young people leaving school what a great job this Government is doing of governing the country. The Minister stated further: 
By the early 1 980s the situation could be one where, in addition to the problem of 15 to 19 year olds being unemployed, there will be a growing proportion of people in their early 20s who will have little work experience or prospects of employment. In other words, the social problem could significantly increase. 
On every occasion when Labor Party spokesmen on this side of the House have pointed out the social problems and the social scar being left by high unemployment, we have been told that we are talking nonsense. We are not going to let up on this issue because the Minister has given us the lead and has given what we have been saying credibility with a great mass of the media in Australia. The Minister has been congratulated for telling the truth. He may get congratulations for telling the truth but the Prime Minister and the rest of the Ministers will not be congratulated for telling their parliamentary untruths. 
I second the motion. It obviously gives the Government a golden opportunity . . . 
... to discuss the matter of unemployment, which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said he was going to do. Why does the Government not accept the challenge and discuss the matter of unemployment? 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
We have a proper procedure and I suggest that the Opposition should follow it. 
You have been spending too much time with your pigs. 
Question put. 
-This motion gives us the opportunity to explain to the House how once again the conventions of this House have been broken by the Government in bringing on this debate before the Parliamentary Labor Party can meet. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I seek your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to explain our attitude to this move by the Government. I do not wish to hold up proceedings for too long. We do not approve of the way in which the House is being used. It is not possible to finish by 11 o'clock. A number of our people have worked extremely hard preparing what they wish to say in this debate. It is an extremely important debate. It is one of the biggest blunders the Government has made in the Budget. Before granting leave to the Minister I put on record that we are opposed to this move. It will go through anyhow but we are opposed to the manner in which the House is being used to conduct the business of government. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be referred to a select committee. 
Arrangements could easily have been made by the Government for this very complex legislation to be dealt with by a legislation committee. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that as from 1 November hundreds of thousands of middle income earners and lower income families will have to suffer the humiliation of divulging to their local general practitioner their financial standing in order that the local practitioner can determine whether these people are socially disadvantaged? Is the Prime Minister prepared to give the Parliament and the people of Australia the same information that these hundreds of thousands of families will have to give to their local doctor? Is he prepared to tell us his total income for the year 1977-78 and how much tax he paid on that income? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented during Question Time. 
Yes, I do. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said at the conclusion of Question Time that perhaps those of us who had asked him questions about revealing his income and the amount of taxation he was paying had some ulterior motive in so asking. I deny that I have any ulterior motive. I merely asked the question to show how morally corrupt it is to ask lower income people to make that sort of information available to their doctors - 
. . . when the Prime Minister, who wrote the Budget, will not make it available to the Parliament. 
-It must be obvious to everyone now that consideration of the most important Social Services Amendment Bill and Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill under present circumstances would be reprehensible. These matters should have the most serious consideration. The Opposition objected yesterday to the way in which a multiplicity of bills were put together and rushed through this House. It was made known to us that if the vote had been split and such as the taxing of annual leave and long service leave had been put as separate issues some members of the Government parties would have considered voting against them. That will never be tested. Now we find that other Bills are to be rushed through late at night. At least nine speakers are listed and three hours and ten minutes is available for debate. Obviously if all the speakers take up their full time the debate on these matters of the utmost importance will go to 12.15 a.m. or 12.20 a.m., when no one in Australia will be able to hear it. This Government's only tactic is to put these Bills through on Wednesday when the House of Representatives is not being broadcast- to rush them through late at night, if necessary. The Bills will not be debated in the Senate until next week. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  has said, the Government is placing far more importance on the right of the Senate to debate the Bills than it is on the right of the House of government, the House of Representatives, to debate them. 
-It should be obvious to all honourable members opposite that they are dragging this House down. They are making a spectacle of themselves and of the Administration in the way they are handling this business. What is the great rush? On the present sittings, the Parliament is due to complete its business at the end of November. Normally we would go into early December. What is the great rush in the Government trying to whack through all the Bills associated with the Budget in such a short debating period? The Government will not allow even its back benchers to speak. They have been told that on important matters such as social security they are allowed three speakers. Is that all the members who want to speak on the Government side? How is it that six of Opposition's 38 members want to speak but only three of nearly 90 Government members want to speak? Are Government members ashamed to speak on these Bills? Are they bowing to the dictates of the rninistry, which is telling them that they are not allowed to speak? Are they bowing to they dictates of the ministry in not splitting the vote on some of these vicious measures which are part and parcel of the Budget Papers? The Government is just making an absolute spectacle of itself, and the results that occurred recently in New South Wales represent the opinion of this Government that is held throughout Australia. The Government is trying all sorts of devious means to get these measures through. The Government is doing anything at all- telling lies, deceiving the public and deceiving the Parliament- as long as it can rush these Bills through and keep everybody on the back benches tame. As was pointed out, it does not matter how much time is available for senators to speak in the Senate. They can have all the time they like. But when it comes to the pensioners of Australia, the Government is allowing only three speakers from each side of this House. 
I say to those sitting on the Government back benches to have a good look at themselves because they are there for two more years while they bow to these sorts of dictates. They should have a look at the results of the Ballarat byelection in a few weeks' time. Those honourable members opposite who are being cowered by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and by the Ministry are closing their mouths rather than speaking on issues which are of the utmost importance to a wide range of people in the community. They are not game to speak. This legislation is being rushed through tonight in case anybody goes to water over the weekend. It is being rushed through in case the pensioners go to some of the back benchers of the Government and say: 'Please, we want our pensions increased twice annually. That was the promise of the Government. Will you go back and vote for it?' Honourable members opposite will say: 'Yes, we will. We will try to convince our Party room'. But the Ministry is not going to allow that to happen. Yet that happened with the funeral benefits legislation. It happened with the proposal concerning the family allowance and the earnings of people such as newspaper boys. But it is not going to happen on some of these major issues. Every pensioner is going to lose $3 a week next year because of these measures- and they have to be rushed through tonight. What a spectacle of administration this is! It ought to be voted against. If the Government were doing the right thing by the Parliament it would bring the legislation on at a proper time tomorrow. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Opposition members- Yes. 

 The bells having been rung- 

That the question be now put. 
They ayes will pass to the right of the Chair - 
That the question be now put. 
I second the motion. Very briefly, I think that the Parliament would understand that if the legislation committees are to operate successfully, and we are trying to co-operate as much as possible to ensure that they do work successfully, it must be accepted that the Opposition does have some rights as to what legislation it feels ought to be presented to legislation committees. We feel quite seriously not only about this measure but also about other measures that have passed through the Parliament in the last two days. We believe that it is essential that the Government recognise the wisdom of the motion put to the House by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  and refer this matter forthwith to a legislation committee, which can deal with it quickly. If that is done the measure can be passed by the Parliament as soon as we resume sitting next week. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-There is really nothing to reply to in respect of what has been said by the two very reactionary spokesmen who have been put forward today by the Government to speak on this issue. The Government has put forward the two most right wing back bench members whom it could put forward with the exception of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  who obviously has a sore throat. It just shows how bankrupt the Government is when it has to put forward these two people, who will stand exposed by what I say. 
Firstly, let me deal with the remarks of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who has now become Australia's answer to Martha Mitchell. He talked about the role of the Australian Government, what it should do and how badly off the employees of the major firms in Tasmania would be if the Australian Government were to interfere too much. He asked what would happen to the mining project at Mt Lyell. All back bench members of the Government know what would happen to the mining project at Mt Lyell but for the intervention on a massive scale of the Australian Government. Honourable members opposite had a debate in their party room just a few weeks ago as to whether the Government should inject funds into the Mt Lyell project to keep it viable. The Australian Labor Party was faced with the very same proposition in its term of government. This is now a subject for debate and it ought to be welcomed as such by the people of Australia. Should the Australian Government pump millions and millions of dollars into companies that could otherwise not stand up without taking some equity in those companies? During our period in government we were told that the paper mills in Tasmania would collapse unless a special grant of several million dollars were given to the Tasmanian Government to bolster the paper mills. That grant was made. But again I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Is it right for the Government of Australia to use taxpayers' money to specifically help companies without the 
Australian Government getting any equity in those companies? Why should not a matter like that be debated? 
The honourable member for Denison said that members of the Opposition would not say anything about South Australia because the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  said that we are doing the wrong thing by Chrysler Australia Ltd. It might be of interest to both the honourable member for Denison and the honourable member for Kingston, who obviously are not au fait with what will happen in Cabinet next Monday, that Chrysler will be fined between $6m to $ 1 1 m. Who is crippling Chrysler now? That is the sort of fine that will be imposed on Chrysler as a result of a decision that will be taken in Cabinet next Monday because of pressure being brought to bear on this Government by the two major motor car manufacturers- Ford Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holdens' Pty Ltd. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not waste your time talking poppycock about what funds the Government uses to bolster up failing companies. They should have a thought for what the Government is doing about destroying employment in South Australia. 
-It is interesting that the Australian Labor Party is the only Party in Australia that presents documented - 
-Members on this side of the House are very anxious to hear an explanation from the Minister or anybody opposite as to why the groups that are listed in clause 45 are to be denied the proper rates of unemployment benefits that will be due to other people in the community. One gets the view that it is not so much the changes based on our experience in the past but rather in anticipation of what is going to happen in 1979, because there is going to be a further explosion in the number of people who will be unemployed under 18 years of age. I would like to broaden a little what my colleague the member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has said in relation to the families from which most of those under 18-year-olds come. It will be found that the vast majority of the young under- 18-years-olds- there are over 90,000 in Australia at the moment between the ages of 15 and 18 who are unemployed, and that number will grow enormously by early 1979- come from what we call the working class areas of this country. 
Their parents are in no position to give further financial assistance to the people who are victims of not being able to find employment. Whether it be a Labor government, a Liberal government or a Liberal-Country Party coalition government, we have no right to discriminate or to start putting the unemployed- as we might do with cattle- into cattle yards and saying that some have greater entitlements than others. This Government has a responsibility to find employment for all those who seek it. If it cannot do so it has the right to look after those people who cannot find employment. For the Government to start trying to put greater economic pressures on to the people who cannot find employment and to try to excuse itself by perhaps coining the expression that they are all dole bludgers in no way denies the responsibility of this Government to find employment for the under 18-year-olds or the over 18-year-olds with no dependants. It denies all the economic pressures that come on to the families as a result of the children not being able to find employment. 
Some of them are far from being children. As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  told us a few weeks ago, by the early 1980s a continuation of this Government's economic policy is going to see people well into their twenties with little or no work experience. We are not just talking about the under 18-year-olds. The only reason this clause is written as it is is to fit this very wild and mystic economic policy, this Budget that was brought down on 15 August, in order that the Government outlay would not be as great as it would be otherwise. But that is denying in every sense the justice that is due to these people who leave the educational institutions and who are entitled to work. It is not their responsibility to run the country. At the educational institutions it is their responsibility to fit themselves out to go into the work force. Almost without failure each and every one of those young people does just that. That has been the procedure. However, there is now a major breakdown in the transfer of people from the educational institutions into the work force and instead of the Government recognising it and dealing with it with justice, what does it do? It says: 'We recognise the fact that there is going to be a great deal more unemployment in this specific age group of under 18 years of age but we are not going to assist it. We are going to say that there is very little we can do about it. ' 
In fact, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations said that the Government has to create 130,000 jobs a year for the next five years to get unemployment down to 5 per cent. With its present policies that is a hurdle that this Government cannot jump. Therefore, we can imagine that next year and the year after from 90,000 unemployed under 18-year-olds in Australia today there are likely to be 200,000 under 18-year-olds unemployed in Australia. The people who will have to carry the mental burden of the young people in the first instance not being able to find employment, being at their wit's ends as to what to do, will now have to carry the economic burden as well; that is going to be placed very firmly in the homes of the people who are already having their wage packets suppressed. This is something which ought to be rejected by every member of this Parliament. It is certainly rejected by every member on this side of the House. It denies a certain and very important section of our community their rights as citizens. 
I want to say something more on this because it is becoming increasingly obvious that the attacks that are being made on the unemployed by the conservative forces in this country are bringing about certain results which mean that a lot of young people leaving school do not want to register as unemployed, do not want to receive unemployment benefits because they feel that there is some associated stigma. I reiterate that it is the right of every young person who leaves school to register for employment as soon as he possibly can and to receive unemployment benefits if this country cannot provide him with a job. There is absolutely no stigma associated with it at all. There is a stigma associated with this Government for culling the under 18-year- olds and saying: 'You are a different section. You are going to be treated differently'. In spite of the fact that there is going to be an enormous increase in the cost of living - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  There is no point of order. 
-In spite of the fact that the recently introduced Budget will increase enormously the cost of living for families, the Government ignores the plight of the recipients of unemployment benefits by saying: 'You will continue over the next one and half years to live on $36 a week. ' It ignores completely the further price burdens that have been placed on the community as a result of its own economic policies enunciated in the Budget. As I have said, this provision ought to be rejected. I look forward to honourable members opposite, including the Minister, trying to give some justification for such wilful action against people who are not responsible for their own plight. 
-In accordance with the arrangements that have been made in respect of this debate, I will be very brief. I worked with the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  in the administration of the Australian Labor Party between 1967 and 1972, which was before the Labor Party was elected to office and on many occasions during his work with people who were co-opted to Labor Party committees on the subject of health he was horrified at the way in which the private health funds were giving health insurance coverage to the people of Australia. During that period it was found that no fewer than 1,250,000 eligible Australians had no health insurance at all. It became the view of the Labor Party that we could not afford this sort of health insurance coverage, that we could not afford to continue to see so many of the people in the community who were already classsified as disadvantaged not having any insurance and subsequently denying themselves proper health care. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  went to great lengths to explain to us that this matter is all about total health costs and the Government is concerned about the total health costs. He talks, of course, in terms of dollars and cents. No one from the Government benches has talked about the cost to Australia of having people in ill-health, and those people in ill-health grow in number when the people are subjected to the sort of system that the Government is now to initiate. The hundreds of thousands of people on low incomes obviously will not join any health insurance scheme. They cannot afford to. As a result of not being covered for the difference between 40 per cent and 100 per cent of the cost of visiting a doctor many of them will deny themselves and their families the right to visit a doctor. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and Government supporters have had great difficulty in giving to us the definition for what is a disadvantaged person. The dictionary tells us that being disadvantaged is being in an unfavourable condition. This should not be difficult. The Government cannot define what people are disadvantaged, but there are many arms of government that can. The Schools Commission, for one, has told us of the disadvantaged areas of Australia on the basis of its allocation of funds to needy schools. We know where the needy schools are situated. They are situated in all the regions of Australia in which the parents are of the middle or lower socio-economic groups. These are the areas in which the disadvantaged schools, as classified by the Schools Commission, are located. All of those people could be classified by the doctors and should be classified automatically by the doctors as being disadvantaged. 
It is pure humbug for Government members to suggest that there is a perfect relationship between the doctors of Australia and the people who visit them. When the Minister for Health announced the new scheme he said that some people may decide to join private health funds on top of the cover given by the Government. On the other hand, some people may decide to stay out and just keep the basic Government cover. Tonight Government speakers have been paranoid about the thought that someone might opt out of joining a private health fund. When the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr 
Klugman), the Labor Party's spokesman on health, said that there are many categories of people who would be better off not joining any private health insurance fund people on the other side of the House jumped up and said it was scandalous, it was hypocrisy and that the honourable member was being irresponsible to say such things. I ask the Minister: Is it or is it not a fact that any person not joining a health fund between 1 November and 1 January will be covered anyhow and that if he gets ill during that period he can join a fund and receive the same coverage and if he does not get ill he will save the amount of money involved during that period? 
Obviously many people will be better off under this scheme. The honourable member for Petrie was quite right when he said that I am one of a very fortunate group. But I am only one of the very fortunate 124 members of parliament who sit in this chamber because, unless I am greatly mistaken and leaving aside the ministerial allowances, we all receive the same salary. So I am only an equal and members of parliament are in a very favourable situation as far as salaries are concerned. We can easily opt out. There are a number of people in the community who, because of the income they receive, can afford to carry their own insurance. We are not greatly concerned about that group. However, we are concerned about the group who will now opt out because they cannot afford to join an insurance fund and who will subsequently say: We will take the risk but if in the morning our child feels sick and we do not have the money to pay the doctor we will not go to him. ' That is the group we are concerned about and that is the group that is not covered by this scheme. 
Anybody observing this new scheme can predict with all the certainty in the world that the new scheme will not be alive by next Budget day.  Major changes  will be made to this scheme by next Budget day. There was no great public outcry about the existing Medibank operations, but the Government had to change the system. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has a pathological hatred for anything that was established by the former Labor Government. In spite of the fact that the people voted for Medibank on three occasions- in 1972, 1974 and 1975, when the present Prime Minister promised to maintain it- it had to be changed. Hundreds of people who now work for Medibank will be displaced. Another result of this decision is that at least 800 people from Medibank all over Australia will lose their jobs. There is no provision to find other employment for them within the Public Service or with any other sta,"orv authorities. They will lose their jobs because Malcolm Fraser has a pathological hatred for the term Medibank. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the GovernorGeneral recommending appropriation announced. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Primary Industry from making a full statement to the Parliament about his business affairs to reassure the public that he is not leaving the country in haste to avoid involvement in public comment on such matters in the Parliament tomorrow. 
This matter is of the utmost importance. Some time ago it even warranted comment by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  of this country. We make no allegations against the person involved - 
Yesterday the top industrial relations body, the National Labour Consultative Council, was abandoned as a result of the storm trooper mentality of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  towards trade unions. On Saturday last this Minister, unbeknown to many of his senior colleagues, embarked upon a most amazing sequence of events. He personally directed a member of his Department, together with the Commonwealth Police, to raid a travel agency with which the Australian Council of Trade Unions is associated. He did this, he says, on the basis of advice he received from the SolicitorGeneral. That advice is known only to him. He refuses to make that advice available to us. It is even more amazing because the Minister told us at Question Time that he had only general information about the operations of ACTU Jetset Travel Services Pty Ltd. One wonders as to the information given to the Solicitor-General upon which he gave his opinion. In fact, as the newspapers have pointed out, why on earth the Solicitor-General was used to give the opinion necessary for the Minister to act remains unknown to all of us. 
One further incident occurred this afternoon at Question Time to which we take very strong objection. The Minister for Transport tried to back up the actions he took on Saturday morning by suggesting in this Parliament that perhaps the ACTU- in fact, he personally named the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  who is one of the most respected public figures in this country was associated with receiving funds from overseas with which to boost his own travel agency. That is the most repugnant use to which this Parliament can be put. Similar slurs were used last week by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  They were used today by the Minister for Transport. They were used again today by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in regard to matters which were never mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
This action taken by the Minister, which was a blatantly political as it was discriminatory, led to yesterday's breakdown of the NLCC. The Minister responsible for industrial relations, who in turn is responsible for the NLCC, was not even advised of the action taken on Saturday. One would have thought that in view of the obvious response to this action the Minister for Transport would have told the Minister responsible for industrial relations that this action was to be taken. But the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations was not informed, nor were the participants at yesterday's meeting. It is not just trade unions which attend the NLCC. Employer representatives, George Polites, Ray Kirby,  Sir Samuel  Burston and others attend, as well as Bob Hawke, John Ducker, Cliff Dolan. The 
ACTU took action with the full backing of other peak councils such as the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. The members of these organisations were given no prior word of the actions of the Minister for Transport last Saturday. 
What did the newspapers have to say? One newspaper reported: 
The lengths to which the Federal Government will go to prevent consumers from enjoying the benefits of lower travel costs have been well illustrated by the absurdly melodramatic raid on the Melbourne offices of the ACTU Jetset Travel Service. 
This raid is just one more example of this Government's confrontationist approach to industrial relations. It illustrates the contempt that this Government holds for the representatives of wage and salary earners. The raid was completely absurd. The  Sydney Morning Herald  pointed out: 
It looked as though it had been copied straight from  Kojak  or  The Untouchables. 
The slapstick humour of this situation is overshadowed by its sinister aspects. 
Why did the Government not ask the travel service to make the documents available? The Minister is well aware that the ACTU Leisure Club has been in existence for four years and has been making travel grants to its members for all of that time. If he now considers that the scheme is illegal, why has he not taken action before? Why was the raid carried out on a Saturday morning when the Government was well aware that only a small and junior staff would be present? 
Why is the Government denying cheaper international air fares and holiday benefits to nearly half the population of Australia? The Minister says that he is upset by the scheme operated by ACTU Jetset because it discriminates against consumers. As has been pointed out by the Managing Director of ACTU Jetset, no fewer than six million people, who are members of trade unions and other associations and their families, have these services available to them. That is some sort of discrimination when the service is available to six million people. 
Why is the Government treating a respectable trade union organisation operating a major travel service as though it was composed of desperate criminals? The Minister is well aware that a large number of clubs and organisations throughout Australia are offering travel benefits to their members. Why have these organisations not received similar requests for information. 
The answer is simple: The Government is trying to cover up its bumbling ineptitude. In this case the Minister is attempting to portray a travel scheme offering cheaper international air fares and holiday benefits to nearly half of the population of Australia as providing a financial kickback for a favoured few, to use the Minister's own comments in a Press statement. 
He seeks to cover up the fact that the so-called new aviation policy announced last week is a sham. It offers cheaper air fares which may or may not be at stated price levels, which may or may not be introduced at some unknown time next year and which only Qantas and British Airways will be allowed to operate. 
Therefore, it is no coincidence that this raid took place at a time when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations announced a record unemployment figure and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced a review of the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. This Government is not only attempting to cover up its contempt for the travelling public; it is also seeking to camouflage its pathetic approach to the unemployment problem. What better scapegoat than the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Whenever this Government is in trouble it seeks to blame the trade unions. It insists on wielding the big stick. It viciously attacks the level of real wages and then refuses to engage in price control. It implements regressive taxation policies and then amends the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to ferment industrial unrest and division in the community. We have the illustrations of the Industrial Relations Bureau, the amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Commonwealth Employee (Employment Provisions) Act. All matters which are concerned at directly affecting the lives of wage and salary earners. 
The Government even attacks the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for granting excessive wage increases- increases which fail to keep pace with the cost of living. Now it will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal in the name of free enterprise and at the same time allow a cartel of travel agents and international airlines to fleece the travelling public. The Government has even decided to tax the lump sum payments which the traveller uses to pay for these airline flights. 
Yesterday on the agenda for a meeting of the National Labour Consultative Council were some matters which one would have thought were far more important than a decision to raid the office of the ACTU Jetset. Let us look at some of the agenda items. 
They are the effect of new technologies, employment and unemployment, discrimination in employment and the tripartite committee on issues affecting women in the work force. I know that they are matters not of great concern to the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, but they should be of far greater significance to the Ministry than they are to the Minister for Transport. They should be matters that take priority over raids on ACTU Jetset. The fact that the meeting of the NLCC would break down would have been well known to the Minister for Transport. But this illustrates the change in direction of labour relations with this Government. It is significant that just two or three weeks ago the Government set up a committee of six Ministers around the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations because a certain segment of the Cabinet, not of insignificant influence on its decisions, including all the senior Ministers of the National Country Party, believes that on every single question that affects the work force this Government has to be tough with the trade unions. So we had the raid on the office of ACTU Jetset, directed by the Minister for Transport. 
The employer representatives at the NLCC were appalled at the action taken by the Government on Saturday that led to the breakdown of their meeting with the unions. In spite of its protest about the raid the ACTU used common sense and sat down with employers and government representatives to decide upon a date for the next meeting of the NLCC. The unions in this case are being far more sensible than this Government has ever demonstrated it is capable of being. 
On Saturday the Minister for Transport used non-political people for blatant political purposes. This Government has shown that it is prepared to do anything to reach office and it has continued to display an even greater immoral stance to hold on to that power. The Press statement put out by the Minister for Transport states on page 2: 

 Mr Nixon said it appeared at this stage that the company's scheme provided a financial kick-back for the favoured few who qualified for membership of ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Limited. 
It is my concern to ensure the cost of these kick-backs is not borne by the rest of the travelling public'. 
I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  not in your capacity as a private member but rather in your capacity as  Deputy Speaker,  to fancy any member of the National Country Party, especially a senior Minister, complaining about kick-backs and perks. Of all the political parties that have ever been established in Western democracies there would be no greater kick-back and perk party than the National Country Party of Australia. For the Minister to use those terms, which obviously he is so familiar with, is a significant indication of his mentality about these issues. Fancy a National Country Party Minister saying that! All week members of that Party are in here bleating about not enough kick-backs being given to the people they represent, yet in this case they are taking offence at the fact that there might be some legal way which is open to ACTU Jetset to make cheaper travel available for six million Australians. But the Government cannot have that. It said that it would have to send in what we are now calling 'Nixon's raiders'. It is absolutely extraordinary that these sorts of situations have to be reached in Australia. 
Let us look at the ACTU Jetset relations with the Government. On 5 July 1978 the Minister for Transport was informed by Jetset that it was entering into a joint venture with the ACTU. I shall quote the last two paragraphs of the letter to see whether honourable members interpret it as a confrontation with the Government as far as the travel agency was concerned. The letter from  Mr Leibler,  the Managing Director of Jetset Tours Pty Ltd, reads: 
Therefore I would appreciate the opportunity to put to you personally our viewpoint on a number of those matters currently under government discussion. My senior management and myself would be available at short notice at your convenience. 
Receipt of that letter was acknowledged on 18 July. On 7 September the Minister for Transport wrote a letter indicating the Government's desire to talk to the industry. No further action was taken until 2 1 September. I shall read the letter which was referred to by the Minister at Question Time. It reads: 
-The Opposition has been made aware of the amendments which are being circulated this afternoon. I hope the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  takes into account that members of the Opposition will require some time to look at them. I am not too sure how consequential the amendments are. As the Public Service Amendment Bill 1978 has very wide support from the peak councils of the union movement, I would not like any major alterations being made to it that would mean that its passage would be held up. We will certainly look at the matters. As the new system of legislation committees gives us an opportunity to consider the BDI in detail, we hold no strong objection to the manner in which these amendments are now presented. 
This Bill is extremely complex. It affects the lives of tens of thousands of people who work in the Commonwealth Public Service. It is long overdue and I suggest that the operations of the Legislation Committee will give interested members a golden opportunity to look at the operations of the Public Service, especially the two major provisions of this Bill. However, it is very difficult to do that in a speech on the second reading of the Bill. My remarks this afternoon will be brief, as we will go through the clauses in the Legislation Committee in the next month. 
The Opposition will be supporting this Bill, as it will provide for some overdue changes to the machinery provisions of the Public Service Act so as to promote improvement in the overall operational efficiency and morale of the Australian Public Service. The Opposition naturally supports the new discipline provisions which are provided for by clause 20 of the Bill. The proposed provisions represent the acceptance of the recommendations of a sub-committee of the Joint Council of the Australian Public Servicerecommendations which honourable members will recall the Labor Government substantially implemented for the staff of Australia Post and Telecom Australia when in 1975 the Labor Government introduced the Telecommunications Act and the Postal Services Act. It is a pity that the Government has taken so long to introduce the new disciplinary code into the Public 
Service area. However, as the change represents improvements from both the viewpoint of personnel management and staff, the Opposition naturally supports the proposed changes. 
Features of the new disciplinary provisions of value include, firstly, a contemporary expression of behaviour constituting misconduct- the new provisions are set out in the new sections 55 and 56; and, secondly, a sounder management procedure for dealing with Second, Third and Fourth Division Staff whose conduct is under challenge. Some of the disadvantages of the new procedures are, firstly, that greater emphasis placed upon responsible supervisory behaviour and adequate staff counselling; and, secondly, the fairer processes so far as staff are concerned, for dealing with complaints of misconduct, which fortunately are not all that frequent, as the statistics show. Emphasis on counselling staff is positive emphasis which the Opposition commends. 
One aspect which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs might care to inform the House about is the likelihood that appeals by staff against charges for misconduct might soon be dealt with by a personnel appeals tribunal as was recommended by the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration, which the House will recall was established by the Whitlam Labor Government. I understand that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations have been pressing the Public Service Board on the institutions of new grievance processes as recommended by the Coombs Royal Commission. Mention of that Royal Commission's activity reminds me of the fact that despite the initiative of the Labor Government in establishing what was the major review of the Public Service system in Australia this century, the current Government has done remarkably little about implementing the major recommendations of the Royal Commission. Why, for instance, has the Government not done something about abolishing artificial distinctions of the divisional structure? Where is the legislation about that? The Labor Government abolished the divisional structure in Australia Post and Telecom Australia in 1 975 when it introduced the legislation to which I referred earlier. 
I would now like to make several comments about the other major changes to be brought about by the Bill now before the House. By clause 31 of the Bill a new code is to be introduced which will assist in the interchange of staff between the Australian Public Service and Commonwealth statutory authorities and public authorities, including State authorities. The divisions are in the new section 87. The objective of promoting greater mobility of employment will bring about its own rewards in increased management efficiency in the Commonwealth bureaucracy as well as bringing greater career opportunities and work satisfaction for staff. Interchange of staff between the Commonwealth, the States and local government does present some difficulty, but not difficulties that cannot be overcome. The effort is worth while in the interests of better administration of public sector acitivities with the consequential effect of better service to the community. One essential ingredient which the Government must provide if it wants to pay more than Up service to staff mobility is the provision of satisfactory housing facilities for transferred staff. The Minister might care to comment on what plans the Government has for making adequate housing arrangements for transferred or exchanged staff. After all without such lubrication the Bill now before us will not achieve its full objective. 
The Opposition raises no objection to the other elements of the Bill under discussion, for example, clause 15 of the Bill, which goes to the question of recognition of prior service. One matter of satisfaction to the Australian Labor Party is that the bulk of the Bill gives effect to the recommendations of the Joint Council of the Australian Public Service, which was a pioneering worker- management consultative process introduced in 1945- as long as 33 years ago- by a Labor Government. 
The Opposition supports this Bill enthusiastically on behalf of all the people who will be affected by it. We look forward to discussing this Bill further in the Legislation Committee over the next few months. 

 -Mr Speaker, the matter I raise tonight is a matter of public record. A number of articles have been written about the business affairs of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In fact, one was written this week in the  Laurie Oakes Report.  I understand that another article is to be published. As a consequence of these matters I moved prior to the suspension of the sitting: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Primary Industry from making a full statement to the Parliament about his business affairs, to reassure the public that he is not leaving the country in haste in order to avoid involvement and public comment on such matters in the Parliament tomorrow. 
It would be unthinkable for the Government to make a rash decision this evening that would lead to the Minister for Primary Industry leaving this country tonight or first thing in the morning when questions could be asked of him tomorrow. As I have said, it is a matter of public record. The  National Times  told us on Sunday that the Minister was thinking of making a statement to the Parliament prior to any report that may be brought down by the New South Wales Government. Let me go over some of the matters that have been raised on this question. Firstly - 

 -Mr Speaker, we are desirous of provoking a debate between Malcolm Fraser and Bill Hayden so that the people of Australia can make up their minds about who really is concerned about unemployment. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
-The attitude of this Government to unemployed people is a national scandal. In spite of what the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  said about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as evidenced in Question Time this morning, is running scared about being challenged by the Leader of the Opposition to a debate on the question of unemployment. As I said at Question Time this morning, let Malcolm Fraser debate Bill Hayden on the question of unemployment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will refer to the Prime Minister by his title and to the Leader of the Opposition by his title. 
-Let the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition debate the question of unemployment, and let the people of Australia make up their minds as to who is the more concerned and talented person to overcome this problem. The misguided nature of the Government's economic policies is now widely recognised in the community. The Government's dishonest approach to the unemployment problem was acknowledged even by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his revelations to the Parliament last month. 
In September this year an estimated 324,000 people were unemployed and looking for full time work. Another 59,000 people were looking for part time work. That figure is 50,000 more than at the same time last year. However, these official statistics disguise the magnitude of the real unemployment. The situation is far worse. Many thousands of young people, married women, and men approaching retiring age have simply dropped out of the labour force. Over the past two and a half years the number of involuntary retirements from the work force has been about 250,000. The real level of unemployment in Australia is therefore close to 650,000 people right now. These figures are testimony to the 
Government's brutal and inhuman approach to economic management. The inappropriateness of its economic policies is now widely recognised in the community. 
However, comparatively little critical attention has been directed to the Government's so-called training schemes or manpower programs. The National Employment and Training scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the Community Youth Support Scheme, the Education Program for Unemployed Youth and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training represent the mainstay of Government measures to overcome the labour market difficulties. The Government claims that these schemes operate to alleviate the hardship of unemployment and that they will provide people with the skills and work experience to enhance their prospects of stable employment. What a fraud. What a cruel joke. On 13 September the Prime Minister said that training schemes together with the increased profitability of Australian industry would mean that anybody who wanted to work would have the opportunity opened up to them. Can this Government seriously argue that the expenditure of $ 1 73m in 1978-79 on the programs I have outlined is an attempt to alleviate the hardship of unemployment? Detailed examination of these schemes reveals the bankruptcy of the Government's approach to employment policy. All these schemes are dependent upon the level of employment opportunities within the private sector and, on  Mr Street's  own admission, their potential is limited. In fact, there are 48,000 fewer people now working in the private sector than was the case a year ago. 
The basic problem is that there are not enough jobs to go around. There are 650,000 people unemployed who, for whatever reason, are completely untouched and unaffected by the Government 's programs. These schemes do little to provide realistic alternatives for the unemployed. Continued praise by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, extrolling the virtues of the Government's ill-conceived manpower policies, serves only to camouflage the failure of this Government to introduce job creation schemes. This Government consistently refuses to introduce job creation schemes because it panders to the ideological whims of the Prime Minister. Fortunately, we are now beginning to observe signs of unrest within the Liberal Party. There is now talk within its State branches and even within the back bench members of the Parliament of the need to embark on job creation programs. There has even been Press speculation about the introduction of community service schemes to aid the young unemployed. 
On 2 October the  Age  ran a story headlined: Volunteer Plan for the Young Jobless'. On Tuesday the  Australian  newspaper claimed that the Government was considering paying to local government $100m for jobless relief schemes. These stories reflect the growing concern within the community over the plight of our jobless. The magnitude of the unemployment problem is such that unless the Government introduces sensible job creation measures, this country will face a social and economic disaster of unprecedented proportions. Among the problems increasingly referred to are the growing alienation of the young to the community and its institutions, increases in vandalism and more serious forms of anti-social behaviour, loss of incentive and work motivation, increasing incidence of personal psychological problems, pressures on welfare services and the loss of skilled manpower resources. To date the Government has failed to act. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has presented to Cabinet a number of job creation schemes over the last 12 months. On every occasion these schemes were rejected. 
In July this year the Cabinet established an interdepartmental committee which was to report to Cabinet before the end of August on the options for the development of a community service scheme in Australia. I am informed that the deliberations of this committee are now in abeyance despite the fact that last month the Minister told this Parliament:  if new jobs were created at an average of 1 30,000 a year for over the next 5 years, we could expect to reduce unemployment to about 4.5 percent; 
He went on to say: 
. by the early 1980's the situation could be one, where in addition to the problem of 1 5 to 19 year olds being unemployed, there will be a growing proportion of people in their early 20s who will have little work experience or prospects of employment. In other words, the social problem could significantly increase. 
These statements of the Minister are particularly relevant when we consider the deliberations of the interdepartmental committee on community service. At its meeting on the 12 July 1978 the committee resolved: 
The main thrust of any scheme should be directed towards young unemployed people; that consideration should be given to options which combine work experience and service to the community. 
On the one hand, the Government admits the gravity and seriousness of the unemployment problem, but on the other, it refuses to consider any program which could provide the unemployed with work opportunities. Those most vulnerable to social and economic disruption will suffer- the poor, the unskilled and semi-skilled and members of certain ethnic groups. Worst hit will be our young people. Nearly 40 per cent of the unemployed are under 21- young people in whom we have an enormous investment and in whom we have inculcated unprecedented aspirations. As the economy sinks into deeper recession and as the rate of technological change increases, they will be joined by another older group, namely, those well experienced in the workforce but rendered redundant. People like skilled typists, desk and office machine operators, newspaper tradesmen, telecom technicians and retail employees will also be relegated to the indignities of the dole queue. 
These prospects threaten to de-skill and demoralise our work force. The Labor Party in government would not tolerate this situation. We are committed to increasing employment so that all those willing to work will find the opportunity to do so. We make no apology for advocating job creation programs. Nor will the Labor Party, unlike this Government, shirk the responsibility of educating and training an industrial work force capable of adapting to rapid periods of structural change within industry. In the short term, the Labor Party would not hesitate to introduce an unemployment relief scheme in conjunction and consultation with State and local governments. Such a scheme would form an integral part of a Labor economic program of controlled growth, both in the public sector directly and in the private sector through the public sector. 
Our employment policy, however, would not be limited to the creation of a certain number of jobs. We would pursue an active manpower policy which would involve the following factors: A commitment to economic planning in order to identify those industries requiring a skilled and proficient labour force. There is a need for the preparation and dissemination of information about future requirements, availability and conditions of employment for different categories of labour. Until this is done, any attempts to review the efficacy of present educational and training policies is merely stabbing in the dark. 
The Williams inquiry is expected to make major recommendations about the future of education and training in this country without any honest indication from the Government of the long term prospects for Australian industry. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has already told the Government that it could expect the manufacturing sector to provide no more than 10 per cent of new jobs in the future and that the Government would have to look more to the tertiary and public sectors for employment creation than it has in the past. Even more disturbing is the fact that the Department has advised the Government that 10 per cent of the work force will be permanently unemployed because of the effects of structural change, especially through new technology, unless the Government creates necessary job opportunities. 
In addition to that, at the National Conference of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations yesterday Professor Bill Ford said that the real crisis of technological change will hit Australia in 1 980-8 1 . He said that as a result of the Government's investment allowance millions and millions of dollars of taxpayers' money was paid out to companies in the latter part of last financial year for machinery, technology and computers that they will not use for another year or so. The real crisis of technological change will certainly hit us in 1980-81. This situation calls for a radical re-think of how we educate our children. Yet the Williams inquiry is expected to make recommendations without receiving any indication from the Government regarding its intentions about Australian industry. 
The second factor in the Labor Party's manpower policy would be the use of selective employment promotion measures to alleviate labour market disabilities of groups disadvantaged by poverty, discrimination, inadequate training and obsolete skills. The Labor Party would look at providing to employers incentives which would enable them to adjust work, work organisation and working conditions to the skills and abilities of the unemployed. Several Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries are already using schemes of this sort, including exemption from payroll tax, new forms of vocational training, paid education leave and work experience programs for schoolage youth. A Labor Government would establish a permanent community service scheme to involve unemployed young people in constructive, imaginative activities which would enhance individual motivation and develop social and work skills. Such a scheme would be developed in consultation with young people who would be paid a training allowance based on award rates of pay. The Labor Party, unlike the Government, does not expect unemployed young people to work for nothing. 
Time does not permit a detailed examination of the failures of present training schemes. The 
Labor Party can only draw to the attention of the Australian public the Government's failure to introduce short term and long-term measures to rectify the impending social and economic disaster. The time lags involved in developing new programs and implementing them to an effective standard of administrative efficiency are considerable. Thus far the Government has been content to argue that the answers lie in the recommendations of the Williams inquiry and the Crawford inquiry. Nothing which might emerge from these inquiries would prevent the Government from implementing emergency relief measures. Given this Government's record, it is quite likely that any credible solutions emerging from these inquiries will fall foul of the Prime Minister's personal ideologies and piggy-bank economic thinking. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
-In the few minutes available I want to pay some specific attention to the Government's manpower programs, so-called- the National Employment and Training scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the Community Youth Support scheme, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. The Government maintains that these programs provide people with skills and work experience to enhance their prospects of stable employment. Even if existing programs were successful in achieving these limited aims the expenditure of $ 173.8m is a pitiful amount to invest in Australia's future productive capacity. Australia needs an integrated and systematic plan that offers the unemployed the choice of employment, job training, education or community service. Present schemes do little to provide realistic alternatives for the unemployed. Clearly this Government has failed in the area of job creation. Close scrutiny of training schemes also reveals that it has failed to comprehend the immense problem of educating and training an industrial work force capable of adapting to rapid periods of structural change within industry. 
The appropriation for the NEAT scheme has gone up from $84.9m to $122m. The SYETP scheme, which forms such a large part of the NEAT scheme, has had an increase from $47. lm to $80m, The SYETP scheme will receive $80m or two-thirds of the total NEAT allocation this financial year. The period of training under the SYETP scheme is reduced from six to four months in 1978-79 and the rate of wage subsidy payable to employers is reduced from $67 to $45 a week. This was done, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  to correct 'the present tendency for SYETP to favour unduly younger age groups to the detriment of older age groups '. Of the estimated throughput of about 1 10,000 trainees under NEAT in 1978-79 about 80,000 are expected to be trained under the SYEPT scheme. Therefore NEAT has an estimated throughput of 30,000 trainees in 1978-79, which provides little hope that NEAT will make any significant contribution to the education and training of the adult work force over the age of 24 years. This figure in itself represents a clear admission by the Government that it is prepared  to deny  large numbers of the unemployed the right to obtain the necessary skills required to work in an economy characterised by dramatic changes in skill requirements. Indeed this is not surprising, given the Government's reluctance to engage in the forecasting of the future manpower requirements of Australian industry. 
The SYETP scheme is the main government measure used to alleviate youth unemployment. It is totally dependent upon the level of employment opportunities within the private sector and therefore it does not add to the overall stock of jobs in the community. There is considerable evidence to suggest that its effect upon the level of employment is counterproductive. I give some reasons why. Employers are not obliged to create an additional position to qualify for the subsidy; employers are not required to retain the employee when the subsidy period expires; and there is no bar on employers hiring a succession of trainees, although the young people themselves are eligible for only one period of subsidised training under the scheme. Therefore the scheme has the effect of recycling unemployment. Firms simply hire unemployed workers to replace other workers who then become unemployed. The scheme has the effect of creating less stable and less satisfactory jobs which may take the place of permanent ones. It has the effect of discouraging a rational deployment of manpower. SYETP approvals are not subject to the labour market lists which are used to vet applications for general NEAT funding. Thus, the socalled trainees may be absorbed into areas where employment opportunities are most threatened by structural adjustment and technological change. The Government is not even able to tell the Parliament what type of training has been provided for SYETP beneficiaries. 
I understand that a survey conducted by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations earlier this year shows that between October and December last year only 35 per cent of those taken on under the scheme and completing it had been given permanent jobs by their employers, whilst an earlier survey gave the figure at 50 per cent. This is a clear indication that the employers are misusing the scheme by retrenching young people at the end of the sixmonth subsidised training period. The Government's cutback in the subsidy is a clear indication also that employers have abused this generous level of wage subsidy. 
The contention that the changes have been made to correct the present tendency for SYETP to favour unduly younger groups to the detriment of the employment prospects of older age groups is not borne out in the unemployment figures. Although unemployment for 15 to 19- year-olds dropped from 175,000 in February to 125,000 in May and to 1 19,000 in August, these declines were not matched by increases in employment. Between February and August the number of 15 to 24-year-olds in jobs fell by 3,900. In addition this period was characterised by a withdrawal of young people from the labour force with a drop in the participation rate of 1 5 to 19-year-olds from 65.2 per cent to 61 per cent- 50,000 young people simply disappeared from the labour force. The decline in youth unemployment is therefore illusory. 
The SYETP scheme therefore is clearly a failure as a job creation scheme. The Government however maintains that the scheme is a training scheme despite the following facts: Conventional business is not often in a position to provide adequate resources for the development of basic job skills. The CES does not have the resources adequately to supervise in-plant training. There is no requirement that the employer provide marketable job skills. A flat rate subsidy ensures that the training that is provided is orientated towards secondary and low wage occupations. The scheme therefore swallows some two-thirds of the NEAT budget but fails to ensure any net increase in jobs while conducting a training component of dubious validity. 
The budget for the Community Youth Support Scheme rose from $5.7m last year to $9m this year. The purpose of the scheme is to fund community based organisations to run activities and work orientation programs for local young people without jobs. The Government recently has introduced new guidelines that hinder the ability of these projects to cater for the unemployed in any meaningful way. The guidelines prevent projects from engaging in job related activities, such as self-employment, the production of goods for sale and job search and placement. Given the fact that 29 young people are unemployed for every CES vacancy, these guidelines effectively prevent the Community Youth Support Scheme's ability to operate a socalled 'employment related scheme'. In effect the scheme's role under the new guidelines is aptly described as cuddle therapy. Its only purpose is to instil the work ethic into kids who stand little chance of getting a job because any local initiatives which could create employment are forbidden. 
The training element involved in CYSS is also constrained by the guidelines which prevent 'formal education classes or instruction in job skills as those normally provided by educational and training institutions'. Under the guidelines CYSS schemes are confined to the role of drop-in centres. There is little doubt that some CYSS schemes have been highly successful in providing essential moral and personal support for the unemployed. They do, however, vary enormously in their effectiveness. If the Government was serious, there is no doubt CYSS could easily be absorbed into NEAT as a job creation and training project where participants could be paid a training allowance. 
The estimates for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-Time Training scheme have gone up from $ 15.8m in 1977-78 to $38m in 1978-79. Despite the introduction of CRAFT in January 1977 a drop of 5.6 per cent in apprenticeship intakes occurred in 1977-78 compared with the previous year. Quite clearly, employers are still reluctant to boost their apprenticeship intakes. This, to a large extent, is a reflection of the shrinkage in the overall labour market particularly in the building and construction industries. Let me refer to the major labour intensive industries. We note that the intake of apprentices in 1977-78 compared with 1976-77 in the metal industries throughout Australia dropped by 5.2 per cent. The number of apprentices employed in the building industry dropped dramatically by 18.3 per cent. There was a drop of 6.9 per cent in the number of apprentices taken into the vehicle industry in 1977-78. These figures had varying effects throughout the States. 
As I said this morning, the employment and unemployment situation has reached a crisis in Australia. The Government ignores to its peril what is occurring in Australia. Something has to be done urgently to put people back to work. The Government needs to recognise the drop-out in the labour force in Australia. More money will have to be put into job creation programs as quickly as possible if we are to avoid the sort of social crisis that is now upon us. If the Government continues to ignore the problems of unemployment with which it is confronted, there can be absolutely no doubt at all that the next time it goes to the polls we will see a change of government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the companies with which the Minister for Primary Industry is associated were permitted a tax deduction for losses incurred in circumstances which have given rise to a full investigation by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission? What was the extent of the deductions allowed? Was there any direct negotiation between the companies and the Taxation Office regarding the eligibility of the companies in these circumstances? Who participated in the negotiations on behalf of these companies? 
I second the motion. I think it is most important for the Parliament to discuss this matter of the priorities of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)- 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Port Adelaide be not further heard. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
I think it is imperative that the Opposition makes its position clear in relation to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  At the Legislation Committee we opposed the suggestion of an amendment. Indeed, we were guided a great deal by our earlier discussions with representatives of the peak councils concerned with these matters and also by the reports of Joint Council, which for some years had worked on the amendments to the Act, and of the sub-committee which dealt specifically with disciplinary action that could be taken against members of" the Public Service. These things were spelt out quite specifically in those reports. Both Joint Council and the subcommittee had on them representatives of the peak councils. We were attempting, without rushing the matter too much, to get this Bill through the Parliament this session. We were not looking for ways and means of delaying the passage of the Bill. Therefore, we are in no way persuaded by the argument of the honourable member for Denison that there will be wholesale disruption in the Public Service if this Bill becomes law. 
I pointed out at the Legislation Committee that the sub-committee dealing with these matters looked not so much at the relevance of people participating in street marches in Brisbane and whether that brought the Public Service into disrepute as at public utterances by public servants in their position as public servants. I referred to the situation where the head of a department argued publicly against a government decision. That may be looked upon as bringing the Service into disrepute and as something for which action could be taken against the public servant. By and large, the Opposition, in agreeing with the way in which the Act has been amended, has been guided by the discussions with the peak councils, by the reports of Joint Council, particularly the reports of the disciplinary sub-committee of Joint Council. The Act has been amended very closely in accordance with the specific recommendations of Joint Council which has worked on the Bill for about seven years. 
Amendment negatived. 
-The Opposition is not persuaded to vote for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  As someone who will be a Minister in a couple of years time, let me say that the primary relationship is between the Minister and the departmental head. The Minister has certain responsibilities that do not rest with people making allegations to him. In some cases commitments are never made by Ministers but departmental heads are shifted sideways without anything going on the record at all. That has occurred in the past. It may well be - 
-I do not think that Hal Cook was terribly displeased about living by the lake in Geneva for a couple of years. In fact, I do not think he liked coming back. Obviously at the time of a change of government different priorities are adopted and there may be a reorganisation of departments themselves as occurred at the end of 1972 and in early 1973. Quite new departments may be established. Be that as it may, certainly no relationship is more important than the relationship between the body politic, in this case the Minister, and the head of a public service department. Even though some may describe the honourable member for Denison as a sort of super jurist who is looking after and protecting the public servants, we do not have fears about the way in which amendments are being made to the Act on this occasion. We are not persuaded to vote for the amendment of the honourable member for Denison. 
It does not seem that the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is having a very good year. Perhaps he cannot hear. I did not say anything about the political affiliation of departmental heads. 
An interjection was made that Hal Cook, at the end of 1 972 - 
-That is right. A new departmental head was appointed to the Department of Labor. I did not suggest for one instance that governments look at the political affiliations of departmental heads. Whilst we are on the subject I would like to say that political leaders on both sides of politics have tended to surround themselves with people they think are confidants of their own political persuasion. The office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is buzzing with people who adhere to his point of view. I do not suggest for one instance that that should not be the case. On the other hand nor do I bury my head like an ostrich and say that a party can move into power and that everybody at every level is totally acceptable to it. A new government is usually elected because it has different ideas from the previous government. Of course, people will be promoted to see that the new government's policies are carried out. Perhaps that will occur more and more in Australia. I am not suggesting for one instance that people will have to register their political views so that new governments can decide whom they appoint and whom they promote. That was not the point of view I put at all. 
-On the same point, the Leader of the House has not moved a motion, but on behalf of the Opposition I want to say that we resent the way in which this proposal is being carried out. We see absolutely no need at all for a decision to be taken now, so late in the sittings, that is going to restrict the sittings of the House of Representatives by one week. Absolutely no reason has been given by the Leader of the House. We have no idea of the business to come before the House. We are not privy - 
-Let me, in the first instance, rebut the argument used by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  about the Labor Government reducing tariffs and causing so many problems. It is to be hoped that Australia does not have to go too often through the problems of the boom and recession of that period that flowed throughout the Western world, because the decision to reduce tariffs was one of the very few options open to the Labor Government in that period in order to make the goods available to what was a much steamed up economy. It would be interesting indeed to see what formula would be used by the present incumbents of office in this country if they were faced with the same sort of boom and then recessionary problems as the Labor Government was faced with. 
The other interesting factor about the 20 per cent across-the-board tariff reduction that took place in that period is that it was much criticised by the then Opposition, now the Government, but it has never been reversed. It is interesting to note that, in spite of all the criticisms of the Government of those days and of its decisions regarding tariffs, specifically the 25 per cent tariff cut, this Government has refused and refused steadfastly in the three years since it came to office to reintroduce the additional 25 per cent protection across the board. If it were such a bad decision and if it had such an impact on industry as one is led to believe by government speakers, I wonder why this Government has not taken the very simple step- it can do this without reference to the Industries Assistance Commission if it does so across the board- of reinstating the additional 25 per cent protection. It does not do so because the inaccuracy of much of what it has said has been exposed by IAC annual reports since that decision was taken, and it has not done so because it could not possibly justify doing so. Consumers in this country also have some say, but the overriding factor in that decision obviously was the economic climate through which Australia was going. No one wishes that the rise and fall in the economy which we had then would come back to Australia. I would think that most of us are contributing towards ensuring that we have a stable economy in which everybody can share in the resources of this country and in which there is work for all those people who wish to go to work. 
The honourable member for Hotham also said that the Government's decisions were right because the Government was putting emphasis on the private sector and was reducing the number of people in employment in government. Subsequently the decisions placed emphasis on and gave priority to the private sector. It seems to me that government speakers continually obscure the difficulties being engendered by the private sector in terms of employment. It is true that a great deal of structural adjustment has occurred in the private sector, including the industries about which we are talking tonight. In the long term, this adjustment will benefit those industries. Obviously the decision tonight will be of great benefit to the machine tool industry, but we also have to take into account that that restructuring is still going on and will continue to go on by virtue of the decision tonight and very much by virtue of the generous investment allowance made available to industry by this Government. It should not go unnoticed that despite all the additional help being given to the private sector by this Government, 48,000 fewer people were working in the private sector in June 1978 than were working in that sector in June 1 977. 
It is no good saying that the machine tool industry is going to be assisted enormously by this decision tonight, it is no good all of us saying Rah, rah; good on you' and all of us putting up our hands and saying how beautiful it is going to be, if in the long term the decision adds to the length of the dole queues. I am not suggesting that there is any equation between the decision we are making tonight and the factor of unemployment. In the past, the hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money which have been handed over to industry, has helped industry in one way. Certainly industry is more efficient, more competitive and more aware of the outside world, but we have a greater problem in our midst than we had before the Government started to give these handouts. I refer to unemployment. Tonight we are talking about the machine tool industry. It might interest the honourable member for Hotham to know that in South Australia alone- this is indicative of the situation throughout the Commonwealth- over 1,500 skilled metal tradesmen are registered as unemployed. As many as 300 apprentices have had their indentures broken because industry has closed in that State alone. They are waiting to go back to complete their apprenticeships. 
We have to look at some of the decisions we make in relation to all aspects affecting the people of Australia, not just how much we are able to give industry, how much it will assist industry and how much more efficient industry will be as a result. There is no grey area about our support for this measure. As the former honourable member for Wakefield used to say, in many instances we would much prefer to see the bounty mechanism used in assisting industry so that everybody throughout the country, whoever he might be, could see quite clearly the amount of assistance that is being given. In this case something like $8m is being provided. Everybody can see that quite clearly and knows what is involved. There is another factor related to this decision, a factor which we have pointed out on many occasions. Members who perform in this Parliament as free traders ought to think about this. There are many reasons, including the one given by the IAC, for giving this sort of assistance. The IAC has stated that in this instance the machine tool industry is defence related and as such plays an important role in the Australian defence capacity. Therefore, it ought to be given assistance to get over the sorts of problems it will face between now and 1 984. 
The IAC placed emphasis on giving encouragement to development design prowess in the Australian industry. There are other reasons for giving this sort of assistance. An infant machine tool industry might be given the same sort of assistance to get it started and to enable it to get on its feet before it has to compete with imports that do not have any duty imposed on them. It might be that the industry is labour intensive, which also would be a reason for our supporting the sort of measure which we are debating tonight as a result of IAC recommendations. There are all sorts of reasons for our providing this sort of assistance. 
The added factor which I want to stress to the House tonight is that these decisions cannot be taken in isolation. It is now accepted by everybody that in February next year we will have half a million people unemployed. From time to time we will hear people associated with the immigration policies of this country and some industry leaders saying that we need more skilled tradesmen; that the only way we will get skilled tradesmen is to have a greater inflow of migrants. As I have pointed out, in South Australia 1,500 metal tradesmen are registered as unemployed. The type of assistance we are debating tonight is a bit like unemployment- there are so many hidden factors. With unemployment there is the hidden factor of the number of tradesmen who are unemployed because of the relativity of wages. The jobs of some people can be protected, not merely by paying a bounty to an industry, but by seeing that the remuneration of a person entering a trade is commensurate with the sort of responsibility that he accepts within the industry. In this respect people who have worked in Australia as tradesmen have lost their relativity in respect of remuneration, particularly over the past 15 years. 
In some instances governments have lost their rationale about what may be required when the Australian economy picks up. For instance, it seems to me to be an absolute disaster that not only are apprentices now having their time broken, but also our intake of apprentices in 1978 is down 8 per cent on the intake in 1977. In the metal industry, the car industry, the machine tool industry and so forth the intake of apprentices this year is about 8 per cent or 9 per cent lower than it was last year, which also was down on the previous year. If the economy picks up, which we hope it will do, and if it starts to provide jobs one of the great problems we will face will be that we will have insufficient numbers of skilled people to carry out the work that will be required to build the infrastructure for a stable economy. They are some of the factors that have to be looked at also when one talks about assisting industries further by the imposition of bounties. As I said earlier, previously when legislation was introduced into this Parliament to provide bounties for certain textile industries and the data processing industry, which was very much an infant industry in this country- we produced our first commercial computer only in 1968- it was agreed that those sorts of industries, which held a great future in this country, had to be assisted. As I said, it is clear to see whether we are assisting if we do it by way of a bounty. 
So it is with the machine tool industry. It seems to me to be elementary that we should all support assisting this industry, which employs so many people and which can give great backup to the defence industry. On the matter of defence, a number of members from both sides of this Parliament served on a committee which considered the industries that ought to be maintained in order to give us that sort of industrial complex that is needed to back up our defence capacity. It is unfortunate that the decision to be taken here tonight is not the decision that should have been taken in relation to the shipbuilding industry. The committee from this Parliament which said that the machine tool industry was important also said that the shipbuilding industry was important to the defence capacity of Australia. So, we have to look at these aspects in total but, more importantly, we have to look at the massive impact that some of the assistance we are giving to industry is likely to have on the long term opportunities for people to go to work because it is that which is going to leave a great social scar on this country. No bounty of any amount, of any level or of any duration will assist us unless we have manpower policies commensurate with the sort of assistance we are giving to industry. 
-This Bill is not a nation-rocking event. It is merely indicative of the Shylock-type mentality of this Government to try to steal 20c wherever it possibly can. The amount of money involved in these measures is quite miserable. When the Budget was being framed earlier in the year every possible means were used to take money off people of all ages, of both sexes, no matter where they worked and lived and in what circumstances they lived. This maternity leave legislation is a further extension of that Budget mentality. The Government has put this measure before the Parliament not so much as a government but as an employer and, as is the wont of politics in Australia, the responsibility falls to this side of this House to defend working people and to try to improve the working conditions of people who go to the work place. It has been the tradition and want of the Liberal and National Country Parties to try to tear down those conditions which have been established over the years. 
So, as with so many other things that have come before us in the past three years, this legislation seeks to amend a measure introduced by the Labor Government in 1973 establishing conditions for the first time in Australia for a very large proportion of our work force, something that was enunicated by the International Labour Organisation many years hence and which had been established and followed by many countries around the world. We were not the first, the trailblazer, in this type of legislation. Yet here we see it being partially dismantled by this Government in line with its penny-pinching policies which were enunciated first in the Budget and now in the dismantling of this legislation. This Bill represents just one more attack upon the living and working conditions of the Australian work force. In this case the Government has chosen to single out women working in Commonwealth employment who for the first time in the history of Australian industrial legislation have achieved paid maternity leave. It is widely recognised in the Australian community that the legislation introduced by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  as Minister for Labour and Immigration in 1973 was a significant breakthrough in the quest of working women to achieve equality of opportunity. 
The measures outlined in this Bill represent a retrograde step. They are an insult to the integrity of many thousands of women working in public employment. The Australian Labor Party believes that maternity leave is a basic element of a woman's right to work, her job security and her ability to compete on equal terms in the work force. In February this year one in every three people working was a woman. Of those women two out of three were married. Most women bear children and they should not be discriminated against in the work force because of their unique biological function of childbearing. Maternity leave is necessary to enable women to combine their dual roles as workers and child bearers. In 1973 the present Government, then in Opposition, did not disagree wth these propositions when the then Labor Government introduced its path-finding legislation. As recently as the last election the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  reiterated that point when he said: 
The Government is committed to complete equality of opportunity for women. 
So what does the Government do today? It amends the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill to completely abolish paternity leave, to introduce a 12-month qualifying period before maternity leave can be taken, to remove automatic access to sick leave, and to limit paid maternity leave to a maximum of 12 weeks. In his introductory comments to this Bill, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  sought to camouflage the Government's real intent by arguing that the amendments were designed to reduce the possibility of exploitation and the overall cost to the Australian taxpayer. He even had the nerve to argue that the provision of paternity leave was unnecessary. There is no evidence publicy available which can lead to the conclusion that there were excesses in respect of such leave. 
I turn to the most recent publication of the Australian Capital Territory branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association which gives the lie to some of the comments made by people in favour of dismantling this Labor legislation. The publication shows that 2.7 per cent of Government employees who had access to these leave provisions had less than one years' service, 88 per cent had between two and 10 years' service, and 8.3 per cent had 10 or more years' service. In regard to the duration of paid maternity leave, 3.5 per cent of government employees took less than 12 weeks' paid leave, 69.2 per cent took 12 weeks' paid leave, and 27.3 per cent took more than 12 weeks' paid leave. The breakdown of other types of leave available under the previous legislation was as follows: Average of unpaid leave, 14.5 weeks; average of paid leave, 24 weeks, including paid maternity leave, sick leave, et cetera; 65 per cent of employees took some leave without pay; 2.8 per cent took furlough; and 81.8 per cent used recreation leave for maternity purposes. That does not give any evidence of the excesses which are referred to by people who argue against these provisions. The Government initiated an internal inquiry in which the unions were unable to make representations or to examine the evidence, if any. The peak councils had no prior opportunity to represent their views on this matter directly to the Government. It is little wonder that the Government was not willing to consult them. When the Government talks about abuses, it really means that it disagrees with the concept of maternity and paternity leave. 
Last year paternity leave cost less than $0.9m. Maternity leave cost $6.1m last year. Is that expensive? That is what those who disagree with such leave say. Just have a look at the way in which this Government spends money. The Prime Minister had a suite in New York for $600 a night. We talk in this Parliament of paying $2m each for torpedoes for defence purposes. The cancelling of orders for 10 torpedoes could pay for paternity leave in the Australian Public Service until into the 2 1st century. This is the sort of penny-pinching mentality that the Government has, instead of looking to extend the provisions and looking to support people outside establishing for themselves some conditions which may be established overseas. The Government looks to restricting such provisions. Most of the alleged problems associated with this legislation are: The women never come back; women join the Public Service when they are already pregnant just to get the benefits that are available; and women tie up jobs. These charges are either factually incorrect or due to the effects of management practices resulting from this Government's inane application of staff ceilings. Surveys show that, despite the enormous difficulties in getting child care for children under 1 8 months old, 50 per cent of women return from maternity leave. The inclusion of staff on maternity leave in staff ceilings leads to work load imbalances. Why blame the pregnant woman for these inefficiencies? 
This legislation must be viewed in the broader context. Last year the Government introduced the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill which will allow the Government to dismiss or stand down Commonwealth employees at will. Earlier this year the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  threatened public servants with retrenchment if the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission granted so-called excessive wage increases. Now the Government presents this legislation. I know of no previous instance in which either Commonwealth or State governments have introduced legislation to diminish existing conditions of employment for their employees. This Bill reveals the Government's callous disregard for working women in Australia. Instead of cutting back on maternity leave for public employees it should be concerned to see that all Australian women have access to paid maternity leave. 
The dramatic increases in female participation in the work force over recent years- in 196 1; 29. 1 percent; in 1966, 35.2 percent and in 1975, 41.7 per cent- underline women's tremendous contribution to Australian society. Despite this increase women still tend to be employed in those areas that are considered traditionally female- the less skilled and lower paid jobs. Yet this Government, and particularly the less rational sections of its back bench, speak of women as invaders of the work place. Sections of this Government and the ratbag element in our media have taken up the 'dump women' slogan. The amendments in the Bill reflect this influence. How long will it be before the Government abolishes Public Service maternity leave altogether? Why did Government not support the Australian Council of Trade Unions maternity leave case, if it is genuine in its concern for working women? Why has it abolished paternity leave- an essential element in achieving equality between the sexes? 
Most other Western industrialised nations have legislated for paid maternity and paternity leave, adequate child care facilities and work on a permanent part time basis for parents caring for young children. By the end of World War II all European countries had introduced basic rights to maternity leave benefits and employment security. For example, in Belgium maternity leave of six weeks before the expected date of birth and eight weeks after the actual confinement may be taken by any worker; a manual worker receives full pay from her employer for one week and social security benefits amounting to 80 per cent of earnings for the remaining 13 weeks of leave; and a non-manual worker receives full pay from her employer for one month and social security benefits for the remainder of the leave period. In France maternity leave of six weeks before the expected date of birth and 10 weeks after confinement may be taken by any worker; and workers may claim social security benefits amounting to 90 per cent of normal earnings. In Germany maternity leave of six weeks before the expected date of birth and eight weeks after the actual confinement may be taken; and benefits amounting to average net pay are available. In Italy maternity leave of eight weeks before the expected date of birth and 12 weeks after the confinement may be taken; and workers are entitled to claim benefits amounting to 80 per cent of normal pay. 
Increased female participation is basic to the evolution of work and employment in industrial societies.. The increasing number of female entrants to the labour force is associated with the growth of the service and public sectors and greater opportunities for part time work. To this must be added heightened career and occupational aspirations of women themselves. Many women find it essential to return to work after having a child because they are family breadwinners or because the survival of the family depends upon two incomes. The implication is clear: The stock of jobs must be increased to meet their growing employment aspirations and governments must act to ensure that women are not discriminated against in employment on the grounds of marriage and pregnancy. This Bill, combined with the failure of the Government even to acknowledge the need for these measures, simply endorses its continued repression of half of the working population of Australia. 
There is one further matter which is of great significance in the debate on maternity leave. This matter involves the role of adopting parents. The Joint Council- the staff management consultative body established under the Public Service Act- had something to say on the question of adopting parents in these circumstances and it made certain recommendations. The recommendations were that adopting parents ought to be subject to the same provisions as anyone else. The Government, in restricting the provisions of this Bill, has not taken any notice of the Joint Council. It has taken the liberty of completely ignoring the recommendations of the Joint Council in reaching its conclusions. In so doing, the Government has ignored the advice not only of the people involved in the Joint Council but also of many other advisory bodies which have made recommendations concerning the role of adopting parents. I would like the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner),  in his summary, to tell us why the moves of the Joint Council in relation to adopting parents- the Joint Council may not have been involved in other areas which we are debating- have been completely ignored. The role of adopting parents is extremely important. The role of the parents in getting to know the adopted child is equally as important as that of natural parents. We would like to know why the Government on this occasion has completely ignored the recommendations of the Joint Council. 
As I said earlier, this is just a furtherance of the penny-pinching attitude of this Government. It seeks, wherever possible, to cut expenditure, irrespective of who is hurt. Firstly it was the paper boys, then the pensioners, then the workers, and now its own employees. As a government or as an employer, however we wish to judge this Administration, it is a bad administration. We can save less than a million dollars by seeing that the father is not at home when the child returns home with the mother, but we can pay $40m for VIP aircraft for the Prime Minister to fly overseas. We can save perhaps a million dollars on maternity or sick leave which may have been available. There is no substance in the charges that there have been excesses. They have all been answered by the peak councils and will be answered in this debate, as it proceeds, by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  We are opposed to the way in which this Government has gone about trying to alter the history making Labor legislation introduced in 1973. 
I second the motion. I will be extremely brief. We on this side of the House dissent from your ruling because it seems to us that before any substantive motion can be moved in any way, in addition to the substantive motion that has already been moved against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  questions must be asked. Those questions must delve into the statements which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  himself has made publicly, both inside this Parliament and outside it. The personal integrity of the Minister does affect his public standing, the standing of the Government and the standing of this Parliament, and should be subject to question. I should have thought that the Minister would be more than happy to answer those questions. There is certain ministerial accountability in this Parliament and the Minister ought to face up to it. 

 -Mr Speaker, I think that you ought to allow that course to be followed. You pointed out here once before that we do not follow the Westminster system in every way in terms of the role of the  Speaker  and that your activities outside the Parliament were not necessarily the course that would be followed by the  Speaker  at Westminster. It seems to honourable members on this side of the House that, unless we are allowed to follow this course, perhaps your role will come under a cloud. I cast no further reflection on it, but we do have a course to follow in seeking the role - 
-I am not threatening you  Mr Speaker.  This matter does throw up the matter of the difference between the role of the  Speaker  at Westminster and the role of the  Speaker,  as interpreted by you, in the Parliament of Australia. If the air is to be cleared on this issue, the Minister for Primary Industry ought to make himself available to answer the questions we are putting to him. 
I move: 
That a joint select committee be established to inquire into and report upon: 
1 ) all aspects of existing electoral laws affecting the Australian Parliament; 
changes that should be made to existing legislation; 
the provision of proportionate subsidies by the Australian Government to political parties and candidates in federal election campaigns and the disclosure of the amount and nature of assistance by corporations and individuals to these parties and candidates, and 
the possibility of establishing fixed election dates subject to a government retaining the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
The Opposition presents to the Parliament today a most reasonable and rational proposition: That a joint select committee be established to inquire into and to report upon the matters listed in the motion I have just moved. 
This is not the first occasion upon which I have spoken on many of these subjects, especially the funding of political parties and candidates and the disclosure of political donations, and it will not be the last. But in the period since I spoke on this subject there has been some movement by Government members. Private discussions reveal to me that there is a growing number of supporters of the view that these steps that have been taken in so many other countries, are going to have to be taken in Australia. The standards set in other countries are standards that are going to have to be set in Australia. 
This motion is not put forward as a party political proposition: It is put forward in the manner in which it has been put forward and carried in so many of the democracies- as the motion of a private member. We have previously presented private member's Bills. The Government was reluctant to agree with them. In 1973, 1974 and 1975, the Opposition, the present Government, opposed all the reform measures presented to the Parliament, using its numbers in the Senate to frustrate the legislation introduced by the then Labor Government. Subsequent upon the Liberal-National Country Party coalition taking over the government of this country at the end of 1975, the Labor Party sought on no less than three occasions, through a private member's Bill and through separate motions in this House, to get some movement going to inquire into the funding of political parties and the electoral laws that govern this country. 
There has never been a major overview of the electoral laws of Australia. As a result, one tends to believe that people do not take the electoral laws of Australia as seriously as they ought to. Some people do not even know the electoral laws of Australia until they become a candidate or a member of parliament. Some people in the Parliament are not aware of the strange way in which the law moves; are not aware of how the electoral laws of this country affect the electoral responsibilities of candidates and of members and the rights of voters. We ask nothing more than that a parliamentary committee should look at those laws, should see the way in which reform is required to bring about some sense to them, especially those laws which honourable members know are frustrating the proper rights of citizens of this country and are being ignored by those of us who stand as candidates for our respective political parties. I will say more on this as I come to each of the sections. 
The Electoral Act is a most complex document and it has a very interesting history. It covers all the matters affecting the rights of citizens, lt is an enormously important document, following upon the Constitution, in seeing that civil liberties are available- for example, the right to elect or not elect a party in this country. Why people have not taken this matter more seriously in the past is beyond me. Already this year a very senior Minister of this Government has been dismissed because of an inquiry in Queensland. The royal commissioner said that the Minister had acted improperly and in contravention of the law set down in the Electoral Act. Leaving aside that specific case, it seems to me that we ought to look a little more closely at the way in which these laws perhaps could catch us all at some time. Every member of this Parliament knows that if the law were enforced, certainly in respect of the limitation of expenses incurred by candidates, which is covered by a section of this Electoral Act, we could perhaps all be subject to some sort of legal action. 
I wish to raise just one or two matters that could provoke some thought on the other side of the House about whether or not there should be a committee of this Parliament to look at the Act before I deal in more substance with the question of subsidies paid to political parties. We must look in the first place at the question of electoral commissioners. There has always been in this Parliament, irrespective of who is in government, some question about the third commissioner appointed in each of the States. It seems to me that perhaps there is a mechanism for overcoming those criticisms which arise when the Government of the day takes it upon itself to appoint the third commissioner in each State. As honourable members will know, there was a raging controversy over the way in which the redistribution was carried out in Queensland. I raise that matter because two positions of commissioner are laid down in the Act, but the appointment of the third commissioner is still subject to the whims of the Government of the day. 
The second matter, which again was subject to a great deal of debate prior to the 1977 general election- it resulted from the 1977 redistribution- is the final report of the commissioners. We would all want to continue to have the right to object to the first report of the commissioners. But the final report- the report that is tabled in this Parliament as being the final redistribution upon which we will go to the polls- is not subject to objection. Some very major changes were made to it. Boundaries in the inner city area of Sydney were changed radically because of minor objections that were raised with the Commissioners. It seems to honourable members on this side of the House that if the Commissioners were brought to task on the way in which they varied their first report they would find it very difficult to justify what they had done. If objections can be raised to the first report, why should objections not be raised to the second report before it goes to the Parliament? 
Nothing is more important than the way in which these things are done. Nothing could bring the Electoral Act into jeopardy more than the way in which the Commissioners carry out their duties. A simple thing like the right to abolish polling booths also causes problems. We all know that if action is taken to abolish the smallest polling booth in our electorate all the constituents in that area think that it is the greatest sin ever carried out under the Electoral Act. Perhaps we can have some more permanency about where people go to vote as it seems to be extremely important to the electors. That is something else that could be looked at. 
Not the least reason for which I raise this matter today is the question that is raised from time to time of compulsory enrolment and compulsory voting. Much argument has taken place about who was responsible for the introduction of compulsory voting. A search of the record shows that in 1924 all the major parties agreed with the introduction of compulsory voting but no party would introduce it. It became law as a result of a private member's Bill. I suggest that that epitomises the point I am making today. Perhaps the only way in which we can bring about reform in this area is by establishing a parliamentary committee so that all the major parties which make up this Parliament can look at the matter. I will read from a speech that was made a short time ago about this subject by the Acting Chief Australian Electoral Officer,  Mr White.  He said: 
Until 1911 enrolment on the Commonwealth Electoral Roll was voluntary, although the electoral authorities and political organisations made every effort to secure the enrolment of qualified persons. However, in that year the compulsory enrolment provisions were embodied in the Commonwealth electoral law for the first time. The enrolment of persons already enrolled on the Electoral Rolls was unaffected, but the introduction of these compulsory enrolment provisions necessitated a complete revision of the existing Electoral Rolls and, henceforth, the submission of a claim for enrolment by every qualified person. 
With the introduction of compulsory enrolment, the responsibility for enrolment or change of enrolment devolved upon the elector and, from that time forward, every person becoming entitled to enrolment was required to complete an electoral claim and forward it to the Electoral Registrar for the Subdivision. 
Compulsory voting for Commonwealth elections was introduced in 1924 and became applicable for the first time at the Senate and House of Representatives elections held on 14 November 1925. 
While compulsory voting was apparently favoured by both the Government and the Opposition at the time, no party wished to take the responsibility for its introduction. By arrangement, the Bill was introduced as a Private Member's Bill. No Minister in either House spoke on the Bill. 
One of the most important measures in the Electoral Act of this country was agreed to by the major parties and introduced by a private member. So no Minister spoke upon it. This is indicative of the fact that if a parliamentary committee looked at all these measures and said that we did not need any changes at all no harm would have been done. I suggest that the honourable members who are participating in the new House of Representatives legislation committees will vouch for the value of giving closer scrutiny to legislation that has been brought before this Parliament. No doubt exists in my mind that a joint parliamentary committee looking at the Electoral Act would agree on amendments that should be made to it. 
Obviously other matters ought to be looked at. An issue arose last year in relation to nominations under section 70 of Part XI of the Electoral Act. Two previous State members of Parliament were elected to this House. I refer to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  The Act says that a State member cannot be a candidate at a federal election. We have never thoroughly discussed why. The matter affects both sides of this Parliament. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  was also a State member of Parliament. These members resigned their positions to stand as federal candidates. It seems to me to be logical to look at whether that provision is absolutely necessary. 
Who in this Parliament likes the procedures that are followed, particularly in the marginal electorates, for postal voting? Who likes to go round the hospitals trying to get the matrons on side with respect to assisting in getting the maximum number of votes out of the private nursing homes, the geriatric wards, the hospitals and so forth? No one likes the system in this respect. The system under the South Australian Electoral Act has been altered so that the Electoral Office sends its own officers into those places which have a certain number of beds. No one acting on behalf of a political party is allowed by law to visit those places. The South Austraiian Electoral Act used to be the same as the federal Electoral Act in this respect but it has been changed radically. 
The names of candidates for the Senate are placed into groups and those groups of names are put into a barrel which is rolled over and then the group names are picked out one by one, and that is the way the candidates then appear on the ballot paper. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  will sympathise with me when I ask: Why should the Yates and the Youngs of the world always appear last on a House of Representatives ballot paper? The names should be drawn out of a hat and the names should appear on the ballot paper in that order. No one should suffer because his name starts with a letter at the bottom of the alphabet. Obviously it would be common sense to amend the law to see that names are put on the ballot paper in the order in which they are drawn, as is done in the Senate. Now is the time for a committee to look very seriously at the introduction of an optional preferential voting system. It is a system that is looked upon more kindly now than it was years ago. 
Everyone knows that the part of the Art concerning the limitation of electoral expenses, which I touched on briefly at the commencement of my speech, is a joke. I do not know how many members fill out the returns required by the Electoral Act. Section 151 of Part XVI requires a form to be returned within eight weeks showing how much has been spent and how it was spent. There are all sorts of laws covering things which cannot be done. Everybody knows, especially me after having been a campaign director for 11 campaigns, that it is an absolute joke. That part of the Act ought to be looked at seriously. We have introduced, both in government and in opposition, Bills that would have set a certain ceiling on expenditure, depending on whether a House of Representatives election, a separate Senate election or a joint election was being held. This would have enabled some common sense to prevail in regard to the expenditure on elections in this country. I notice that under the part of the Act dealing with electoral offences and punishments a person who wagers on an election result is liable to a fine of $100. Many members would be subject to those provisions if close scrutiny were made of their activities. 
I refer now to the question of the funding of political parties, which forms an enormously important section of the motion that I moved this morning and which I have moved so many times before. I do not believe that members of the Government will take notice of what I say as an individual about this matter but I have very strong feelings about it. I turn again to the most recent, comprehensive and perhaps most relevant report on this subject to be brought down overseas. I refer to the report of the Houghton Committee to the British Parliament. I will read a summary of its recommendations. 
We recommend the introduction of a system of state financial aid for political patties in the United Kingdom. 
Such aid should take the form of: 
annual grants to be paid from Exchequer funds to the central organisations of the parties for their general purposes, the amounts being determined according to the extent of each party's electoral support; 
at local level, a limited reimbursement of the election expenses of Parliamentary and local government candidates. 
In order to qualify for a grant a party must at the previous general election have either. 
saved the deposits of its candidates in at least six constituencies; or 
had at least two of its candidates returned as Members; or 
had one of its candidates returned as a Member, and received as a party a total of not less than 150,000 votes. 
Under those recommendations the total cost of state aid to political parties was estimated at Stg2.25m a year. It is also interesting to note the reactions of the various parties. The Conservative Party as a party said it did not believe in state aid. The Labour Party said that as the parties were indispensable to democracy they should be assisted, they were finding things difficult and it came down in support of state aid being given to political parties. The Co-operative Party said that it also would support state aid. The Liberal Party said that previously it had a view which opposed state aid but now it came down in support of it. The Confederation of British Industry came down reluctantly in favour of a limited form of state aid. The British United Industrialists came down in favour of the present system of private donations. A number of trade unions were opposed to the idea; a number of major trade unions were in support of the idea. Other groups throughout England had mixed views on whether state aid should be provided. 
Let me give the results of a survey throughout England of people representing the various political parties. Of the 91 replies received from various sections of the Labour Party throughout the United Kingdom 69 were in favour of state aid, 10 were opposed to it and 12 were neutral. In spite of the fact that the Conservative Party in its formal submission to the inquiry said that no state aid should be given to political parties, of the 84 replies received 32 were in favour of state aid 39 were opposed to it and 13 were neutral. Of the 80 replies received from Liberal Party organisations, 63 were in favour of state aid and 10 were opposed to it. 
A survey, commissioned by the Houghton Committee, of the British public without any canvassing at all showed that 45 per cent of those interviewed were opposed to state aid for political parties and that 44 per cent were in favour of it. State aid for political parties is becoming the system throughout the Western world. We cannot continually hide our heads in the sand and say that it does not exist or there is no reason for providing state aid. People a lot smarter than us have adopted the system in favour of consolidating the role of political parties, not just at the parliamentary level, not just for the purpose of issuing propaganda and making announcements at election times, but to establish proper research and work in the electorate from the local level right through to the national level that we serve in the Parliament. 
All we on this side of the House are asking is that a parliamentary committee be established to look at the system. If that committee recommends that nothing should be done, then we can have a look at its report. I assure the House, as I have done so many times before that on these questions if we form such a committee it will recommend change. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (MrMillar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. Is there a seconder to the motion? 
-Yes. This is a most important issue. We have granted leave from this side of the House so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  could tell the Parliament when he became aware of the suggestion made by what he says is a 'middle order official' from the Soviet Embassy, which this Parliament ought to have been aware of. We gave him leave on that basis. He was then allowed by the Chair to go racing off onto other issues which have absolutely nothing to do with the issue for which we gave him leave. It appeared as though the Chair was giving him protection to do that. 
The point raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is valid. The Minister ought to be made to keep to the relevant points raised in this Parliament by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  The Parliamentary delegation that went to the Soviet Union could have been looked upon as one that was elected to comply with the wishes of the middle order official from the Soviet Embassy. This side of the Parliament was not made aware of the suggestion made by that middle order official from the Soviet Embassy. The Minister was aware of it but did not tell the Parliament. That is what we wanted to listen to. 
Yes. 
That my ruling be upheld. 
Those of that opinion say ' aye '. 
Government members- Aye. 
Opposition members- No. 
That the Speaker's ruling be disagreed with. 
Those of that opinion say ' aye '. 
Opposition members- Aye. 
Government members- No. 
Opposition members- The ' ayes ' have it. 
Question put- 
That the Speaker's ruling be disagreed with. 
-The Opposition is opposed to the existence, the extension or the extension or the use of the Trade Practices Act in trying to settle industrial disputes. Nothing epitomises the Government's policy in industrial relations more than the way in which it tries to use the Trade Practices Act. Nothing epitomises how sloppy this Goverment is than the way in which it introduces legislation in relation to trade practices. On every occasion that we have had to debate the Trade Practices Act in this Parliament it has been necessary for the Government, in spite of the fact that the amending Bill may be quite simple, to bring in further amendments at the time when the debate is to take place. The further amendment of which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has given notice tonight is of no great significance to the Opposition because we are totally opposed to the existence of that section of the Act. 
If the imposition of penalties could solve industrial disputes in Australia, there would be no industrial disputes because we have applied to trade unions a wide ranging group of penalties that does not exist in any other part of the world. But those penalties are not helping to solve industrial disputes in this country. It is unbelievable that this awesome power contained in section 45D could now be extended to be placed in the hands of so many more people and to be used in a way that could bring this nation to its knees. We have seen this demonstrated in the last few days by a very small distributor of oil in the countryside of Victoria who used section 45D to try to solve with the Transport Workers Union of 
Australia an industrial dispute that had its impact in the three eastern States of AustraliaVictoria, New South Wales and Queensland. Had this distributor continued his litigation, there is absolutely no doubt that he could have brought the country to a halt. It is a power of which he was not aware a few weeks ago. 
Now we find the Government extending that power because the strict interpretation of section 45D before this amendment foreshadowed by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs may not have allowed it to rope in the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union in the case of the export of live sheep. There are no building bridges with this Government; it is burning them down all the time. There is no negotiation or conciliation; they are out the window. Either the Government wins by brute force or it does not win at all. What a failure this Government's policies have been! 
There was no mention in the Minister's second reading speech where this amendment is directed. There was no mention of the major industrial disputes in which so many people have taken an interest. The Government thinks it has no cause to tell us why it feels compelled to move this amendment. It is brought in, as are so many pieces of legislation introduced by this Government, in order to deceive us. Therefore, one must necessarily look around for the reasons why the Government would introduce an extension to the provisions of section 45D. Where is the success of the section? Can the Government indicate where conciliation has not beaten the penalties that are contained in section 4SD. What will happen when the first employer or now the first growertakes action under section 45D which will stop this country completely? Is that what the Government hopes for? Has this Government no comprehension of what industrial relations are about? Does it not understand how these relations have to be pursued? That the Government should ask every small employer or grower to understand the ramifications of the action that he is taking is unbelievable. 
As I said earlier, the Government is giving power almost to every employer in the country to take action against a trade union when, in the first instance, there is no mechanism for conciliation. The oil distributor in Seymour went straight to the Trade Practices Act for redress. Obviously, he was guided by professional advice- anti-trade union professional advice. That practice will be followed by all the people who might enter into a dispute involving the export of live sheep.  Major companies  which are involved in the operation of the labour intensive industries in this country would not dare take the action that may now be taken by some of the small employers in this country. 
It is because they have departments of industrial relations, they have people who are expert in the carrying out of industrial relations, they have people who understand the trade unions and who are dealing with the trade unions every day, and they think it is in the interests of this country not to stop industry. That is why they would not take such an action; it is as simple as that. However, that was not the case with the chap at Seymour or with all of the small sheep owners around the country. Of course, some people will like to take this action. Obviously, as soon as this legislation becomes law, and there is a dispute again on the waterfront, someone will be backed financially to take action against the meat workers union. But the Government does not have the decency or the honesty to tell us what this legislation is all about. It did not even understand that it could not extend the existing Act to cover what it now considers to be a breach. Australia's trade has to be brought into it to cover in very general terms the actions of people involved in this country. What was the meat workers union about? It had a terrible case. It was trying to save the jobs of its members. It was not asking for extra money, extra long service leave, extra annual leave or extra sick leave. All it was trying to do was to present a case to preserve the jobs of its members. 
Our little friend used to be an office boy for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. He is telling us that he knows all about it and what has to be done. BHP would not take the action that some of these people may now take. As I said earlier, if the Government thinks that it can solve industrial problems by penalties it should solve them easily. Australia has more penalties than any other country. The Government is now extending the penalties. Do Government members know what will happen in this country? It does not matter who takes the action; as soon as a union is fined $250,000 Australia will stop. It does not matter what the Malcolm Frasers of the world say or what twisted views they may have on how problems ought to be solved; if the Government tries to use the Trade Practices Act to solve industrial problems it is doomed to failure. So it should be. It is as we predicted. 
The Minister did not have the guts or the decency to tell us in the second reading speech what the Government was about. After the dispute it sent a delegation to the Middle East. There are still areas of dispute between the parties involved. The Government should sit down to try to talk with all the parties about what has to be done. If the export of live sheep is going to cause redundancy of employees in the meat workers union at the abattoirs around the country the matter is worthy of consideration. Companies can do things in this country that they cannot do in their home countries. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and the Ford Company et ceteras can sack people with a week's notice in this country. They cannot do it in their own country. We can pontificate about what is best for Australia and the best way to save the lives of people who work in the abattoirs, but because we have found a new market for the export of live sheep those workers do not matter. It is more important to look after the sheep owner. Both are extremely important. The Opposition does not ignore what has been the plight of people on the land and the wild fluctuations in their incomes. We understand that. We also understand that we will not find a solution to the problem that has come upon us so quickly in the last three or four years by punitive action. It just will not work. The Government ought to understand that. 
I wonder what the honourable member for Maranoa would do when some of the small growers take action to stop the export of merino rams. Does he want the Trade Practices Act used against those people? Does he want to see the small grower who lives at the behest of some of the major breeders in the country fined $250,000 because that grower gets together with the Australian Workers Union to stop the export of merino rams? This is the sort of power that the Government is now writing into the Trade Practices Act. The trade union movement will have to look closely at the way in which members of the National Country Party operate. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  told the growers not to bring their beef to the market until the price goes up. What about using some of the laws to people against those who decide collectively to carry out the whims of the  Deputy  Prime Minister? 
The purpose of the proposed amendment is obviously to facilitate proceedings against unions, their officials and members. It was not necessary merely to provide extra avenues for proceedings against unions, their officials and members. However, the proposed amendment makes proceedings much easier. Under the proposed amendment it will no longer be necessary to prove that any substantial loss or damage is done to the business of a corporation. It will be sufficient merely to prove that the conduct complained of was engaged in for the purpose of having or likely to have the effect of preventing or substantially hindering a third person from engaging in trade or commerce. For example, it will no longer be necessary as in the recent Tillman's Butcheries Pty Ltd v. the Australasian Meat Industry Employees' Union case for the complainant to prove that the union, its officials or members had caused substantial loss or damage to the business. The Act is widened so that it is applied to, say, the live sheep dispute in Adelaide. Elder Smith-Goldsborough Mort could institute proceedings as in Goldsborough Mort v. AMIEU in the Adelaide case; Clausens, the shippers, could complain; and a third company which was taking delivery of the sheep on the ship could also complain. 
I understand the complexities of this case extremely well. As one of the members who service the stevedoring industry in his electorate I understand the work generated by the export of live sheep. Employees in small engineering works, waterside workers, shearers, foremen, stevedores and transport workers would get additional work as a result of the export of live sheep. We do not underestimate the importance of the extra income to the people selling the sheep. We understand both sides of the story. We understand well- this is something the Government is ignoring- that we will not throw members of the meat workers union on the dole heap. It has now become the great theory of this Government that it can sack people out of industry willy nilly and make them part of the 400,000 or 500,000 unemployed as long as it gets to where its economic policies want to take it. 
Quite simply, this provision will not work. Does the Government think that if it takes action against the meat workers union all the unions involved in the stevedoring industry will capitulate, go down on their hands and knees and say: Malcolm, we are sorry. Now we will load the ship because you fined the meat workers union $250,000"? This legislation will bring into confrontation the person taking the action or the industry involved in taking the action and the whole trade union movement. The unions have made a decision as a result of the last Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress that they will not stand by and watch unions penalised under this section of the Trade Practices Act. It is another example of this Government's madness in industrial relations. One had only to sit in this chamber a few short weeks ago to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speak about the Telecom dispute. He said: 'They must go back to work. They cannot win. They will not win. Money lost is money lost. They will not get their wages back'. When Mary Gaudron sat down with the parties involved for 13 hours there was a substantial victory for the Telecom employees. Who solved the air traffic controllers dispute? The trade union movement solved it. What solved the oil dispute last week in spite of the action and encouragement given to the small employer at Seymour in Victoria? Common sense and conciliation solved the dispute. With the further extension by this Government of the coverage of the Trade Practices Act conciliation goes out the window. The Government does not want it. There is no compulsion on anyone taking action under the Trade Practices Act to force them in the first place to sit down with the parties involved to see whether they can find a settlement. John Moore has done more for this country in the last three years than Malcolm Fraser will do in a hundred years. 
-I am a little alarmed that I have only half an hour to speak on this. The House would be aware that earlier in the year the Opposition was very much opposed to changes that were made to the original Bill that set up the Trade Union Training Authority in this country. We place great emphasis upon the work that it can do. Nevertheless, the changes have been made and we find that the Bill now before us makes the alterations that are necessary to see that the newly appointed director and the  chairman  from the various States or people who may be candidates or members of Parliament who play some role in the affairs of TUTA can be adequately catered for. We find no opposition to the essence of the Bill in that effect. A future Labor Government would reverse the decisions that have been made by this Government in altering the way in which the machinery of TUTA is now set up. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-by leave-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has presented a most significant statement. At the behest of the Government I attended this year for the first time meetings of the International Labour Organisation. I was somewhat amazed by the machinery of the ILO and not altogether undaunted by the work done by the Australian representatives in making decisions and reaching agreement on resolutions and conventions, and the politics that are involved in the ILO itself. I place on record my thanks to the Government for continuing the practice that was established by the Labour Government of sending the shadow Minister responsible for labour to the International Labour Organisation meetings. I am not too sure whether the Government will continue that practice. Nevertheless I have had the benefit of attending a meeting, observing what happens and meeting with the people from the employers, the trade union movement and the Government. As a consequence the ILO has a much more important role in my thinking about industrial relations than beforehand. 
I cannot place too much emphasis upon the role of the people who attend the meetings. I must say- I think the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  would agree with me on this-that the senior spokesman from the employers, who is in the House tonight,  Mr Polites,  and the senior spokesman for the union movement in Australia who is in this city tonight,  Mr Hawke,  have an influence way above what one would think Australia is entitled to at a forum such as the International Labour Organisation. I am not sure that they do not work out tactics before they go into some of these meetings. Nevertheless, whatever they do, it works very successfully. Those of us who have had the privilege of attending meetings as observers have found it gratifying to watch the operations of the ILO. It give us some insight into how international industrial relations are progressing and what is occurring as a result of the ILO 's practices. 
After I left that meeting of the ILO I took the opportunity of visiting several countries, one of which was South Korea. That country comes in for a certain amount of criticism for the way in which it carries out its industrial practices. Certainly it receives a lot of criticism about the way in which people may be restricted in organising and perhaps presenting a case for better working conditions. The influence of the ILO now is even reaching that country, as I found just a few days after I left Geneva. I was told that for the first time a delegation from the ILO was allowed into South Korea to investigate, in this case, industrial accidents there. Undoubtedly most countries are very sensitive to observance by the ILO of the way in which they carry out industrial practices. I know that many people in Australia do not think that is very important. Because the time of travel is contracting so greatly it is becoming increasingly important that we should understand what is occurring in some of these countries. The Minister tonight in tabling this document said, against this background:   . . Ratification of the two conventions and acceptance of the two recommendations would not appear to be possible at present 
The ILO can pass a certain resolution. Politics are present at every session, committee and tripartite meeting of the ILO, so some things are not possible. Nevertheless, the ILO makes certain decisions which it wants to have accepted internationally. For Australia to say that it cannot accept that means that we are saying to the overwhelming majority of countries in the world: 'If Australia in our circumstances cannot ratify a convention of the ILO there is certainly no chance that most other countries could do the same thing'. 
The Minister interjects, quite legitimately, to say that one of our main problems is the federal structure. Perhaps it means that we need a greater involvement of the States in the ILO at every level if there is no other way of overcoming the problem. I know the effect and influence just going to the ILO meeting had on me. Before I left Australia a number of people who had not attended an ILO meeting previously said to me: 'This will be a great junket; you will have a great time going to Geneva; it is beautiful; the Labor Government established the principle and this Government is carrying it out; you do not have to do anything; you will have a good time'. I must say to all honourable members- I am not talking about myself in this instance because I had no specific responsiblity, apart from the observation of what was happening at the various committees and the General Assembly of the ILO- that those people who go to the ILO work very hard and conscientiously, far beyond my wildest dreams about what people would be doing at an international conference. They worked for long hours every day. They took the series of conferences and committee meetings extremely seriously. 
The Australian representatives were doing their best to show that we have a sophistication of POlitiCS between employers, government and employees that can compete with the best that other groups or interests may be able to present at the ILO. I thought it was terribly important, but it is also important to note that the Minister made a statement tonight. I am not critical of the Minister. All I am saying is that there is a barrier in the federal system in Australia as a result of which we cannot ratify these conventions or adopt the recommendations. Perhaps that is another matter that should be looked at by the various meetings which the Minister calls between the State Ministers. 
The newspapers today ran articles stating that the Commonwealth employees stand-down provisions legislation is coming in for a great deal of criticism by the committee that has been set up by the ILO. I do not think in any circumstance, in spite of the fact that Australia may be in a position to say that it has certain legal and constitutional barriers that prevents it from doing all the things that the ILO would like it to do, we want to be in the spotlight and the ILO saying that the Federal Government of Australia is introducing legislation which it finds contrary to the best interests of industrial relations. I do not know that those people who attend regularly the meetings of the ILO Executive,  Mr Hawke  or  Mr Polites  or government representatives, want to present those views. I think the Minister would have to look very seriously at the legislation that is being introduced into this Parliament- I do not forget also the inclusion of industrial relations provisions in the Trade Practices Act which may also become subject to ILO scrutiny- and I think the Minister should do more to explain to his colleagues in the Cabinet that we have not only a national responsibility but also in this case, when we are talking about the ILO, an international responsibility: I hope that the Government would have second thoughts about the legislation which it has previously introduced which has become the subject of criticism by an international organisation. 
I think that the practice of sending people to ILO meetings is good. I am not too sure that in my own case a representative of the Opposition, or the same Opposition spokesman, should be sent to every meeting, but if the problem be that we should have more representatives from the States so that when the Minister comes back to Australia he then does not have to go through the problem or hurdles of explaining in detail word by word all the things that the ILO expects of Australia, as it does of most other countries around Australia. The Minister should discuss that with the States in the hope that we can overcome these problems so that when these recommendations are made, when these conventions are to be ratified, we can have a unified voice in Australia. 
-This matter now dominates the politics of Australia. It is concerned with whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will continue to allow a very senior Cabinet Minister to be treated differently from other members of the Ministry who have been dealt with by the Prime Minister over the past three years. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is surviving, not because of bis conduct and not because of the allegations that may not have been proved; he is surviving because Reg Withers was sacked. Reg Withers is saving the Minister for Primary Industry because the Prime Minister does not dare again take the action against the Minister for Primary Industry that he took against the former Minister for Administrative Services. When one compares the offences, allegations and situations in which all the Ministers have found themselves, one would have thought that this Minister whose affairs are under discussion today in this Parliament has more hanging over his head than did the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr 
Garland), the right honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  and  Senator Withers  combined. 
We from this side of the Parliament are entitled to ask: Why is the Prime Minister making a different decision? Obviously he has weighed up the politics of the matter and has decided that he dare not take action against the Minister for Primary Industry, in spite of all the allegations, that he took against  Senator Withers  because the disruption to the coalition that would be caused by that action cannot be tolerated. The Minister for Primary Industry says that he is waiting on a report from the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales. That is not the point at all. That is a quite independent investigation that is being undertaken in New South Wales. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has pointed out, an investigation has been going on for 34 months by the Minister's accountants. What has happened to that report? The Minister for Primary Industry signed a document in 1977 in which he stated: 
Losses by misappropriation by persons unnamed. 
He signed it 'Ian Sinclair'. Not too many people are associated with the company who could have had their hands in the till. We want to know which person it was. Was it the Minister for Primary Industry? If it was not, why does he not tell us? We gave him 22V4 minutes in which to do so. We are prepared to sit here all day. All we want to know is: Was the Minister for Primary Industry a person unnamed? He signed the document. That is all we want to know. Perhaps he has told the Prime Minister that he was not involved and perhaps that is why the Prime Minister does not take any action. But what if he tells the Prime Minister that he was involved? What if that is the result of either of these inquiries? Why has it taken 34 months? Honourable members opposite take a very peculiar stand on this matter. They say that it is no business of ours that this misappropriation became the subject of a tax rebate. Not only did someone have his hand in the till but the taxpayers of Australia had to make up the losses. We just put a surcharge on the taxpayers of Australia. What did we put on that surcharge for? To pay all the crooks who misappropriate money from their companies? Is that what we have the surcharge for? 
We are entitled to know on this side of the House. It is quite simple, we did not take a point of order on the Minister for Primary Industry quite deliberately. We wanted to give him all the time he had. He got up and spoke about the prayers and the end of democracy and the order of business in the Parliament, what a decent fellow he is and what terrible people we are on this side of the House. But he did not tell us how he can explain this statement Let me say it again: Losses by misappropriation by persons unnamed', signed Ian Sinclair. It is as simple as that. Is there another Ian Sinclair who we have not been told about? We took it on this side of the House that as that report was signed in 1 977, that would have been long enough to find out who had his hand in the till. One would have thought that by now the Minister for Primary Industry could come in here, as a senior Minister in the Australian Parliament, and say: 'It was not me. I did not receive any benefit and I am not associated with the misappropriation.' We do not want to hear his views on the prayers that are said before the Parliament sits. We have all been through that and we all know it pretty well. We want to know who misappropriated the money from the companies and who got the benefit of the tax rebate. 
There are two very simple questions, and the Minister for Primary Industry ought to be able to tell us. We will allow him to get on his feet again if he will promise to tell us who misappropriated the money and who were the persons unnamed in 1977. Of course, the Minister for Primary Industry says that it was quite legal, that he got the rebate quite legally to the companies on losses. Of course the Taxation Commissioner pays on losses. He pays if a payroll is knocked off. He pays on all sorts of losses. But who made the misappropriation in the first place? We are quite entitled to ask that Fancy honourable members opposite having a double value on this. Can one imagine anybody on that side of the House sitting quietly and saying that it is none of his business if any one of my colleagues had been involved in this scandal? If anybody on this side of the House had been involved in this theft, this scandal, could one imagine them all sitting there and saying: 'It is none of our business*? They would be on their feet every day. 
The Minister for Primary Industry told us the last time we moved this motion that it was not important because we had not asked a question. We are asking a question today and we are going to go on asking it, as are people throughout Australia: 'Losses by misappropriation by persons unnamed,' signed Ian Sinclair, and the taxpayers had to make up the losses. So there were two lots of people- the people who were not sharing in the misappropriation, some of the company directors, and the people who did not share in the tax rebate that was given because of the misappropriation. We are entitled to know. 
The Prime Minister tried to shelter this whole scandal by taking a point of order for five minutes in order to limit the time given to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  That is how important he thinks it is to cover up. Poor old Reg Withers. I wonder what he thinks about all this? He made a telephone call - 
This is relevant to the values of the Prime Minister and the way he is treating the Ministers. The members of the Liberal Party ought to look at it more seriously than anybody else because their colleagues have all been hung. The Prime Minister said he saw the report on Phil Lynch and that he did nothing wrong, but he was sacked. Eric Robinson was stood down. Garland was stood down. Reg Withers was dismissed. The Minister for Primary Industry is associated with the misappropriation of large sums of money and he is sitting there smiling because he is a member of the National Country Party. What strange values they are prepared to tolerate on that side of the House, and they say we are not to ask questions and that it is no business of the Parliament. They have got to be joking. As I said at the outset, this matter is dominating politics in Australia. People want to know what sort of values this Prime Minister has. How can he sit there day after day with a cloud hanging over the head of one of his three or four senior Ministers, a person who has been associated with this scandal right from the start? 
Do not worry about the investigation in New South Wales, worry about the investigation that has been set alight by the Minister through his own accountants. That has been going on for 34 months. If we are going to get the Parliament up early in order to avoid debate on this question we will never come back. That accountant must be the slowest accountant in the world. He has had 34 months to look at these books, and the matter was signed in September 1977 saying that the money had been knocked off. Honourable members opposite ought to have Darcy Dugan look at it He could tell them what has happened and he could probably tell them in five minutes who has got it. He could probably tell them why the Minister for Primary Industry is always smiling. It is an absolute joke that this matter is allowed to continue. The Minister for Primary Industry ought to explain. He ought to use the time we are prepared to give him to tell us where the money went and why this action with the Taxation Office was taken by the company. 'Money misappropriated by persons unnamed'- let me just imprint that on the minds of honourable members. It was written by the Minister for Primary Industry in September 1977. Why is no action taken? No one is named and nothing is done. The Prime Minister puts up with it, and I finish on that note. The Prime Minister puts up with it because of Reg Withers. Poor old Reg Withers is sitting over there on the back bench of the Senate, sacked for making a phone call to the electoral commissioner of Queensland. I will tell Government members what they have to do to survive under Malcolm Fraser Join the Country Party. 
-That this Government is the greatest bunch of incompetent economic managers that this country has ever seen is no better exemplified than by the way the Government has deliberately allowed unemployment to build to the record level of last week, when 493,000 people in this country were registered as being out of work. That represents the highest number of people without jobs that has ever been recorded in the history of Australia. At the height of the Depression there were 480,000 people out of work. In 1978 under Malcolm Fraser 493,000 Australians were registered as unemployed. This has been done deliberately, as can be easily proven. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  certain terms are not allowed to be used in this Parliament to describe people who say things outside Parliament and then do not carry them through. What do people outside think about a Prime Minister who in his first election campaign as the Prime Minister of this country in 1975 made the following promise: 
Only under the Liberalswill there be jobs for everybody who wants to work. 
In 1977 at another election period he had the following to say: 
Our consistent economic strategy is getting Australia back to work and from February there will be a sustained and long-term reduction in unemployment in Australia. 
What do people say about a man who will make statements such as those at elections and then do absolutely nothing about them in administering the economy of this country? Just look at the brief record of this Government which now has  been in office longer than the Labor Government of which it is so critical. This Government is now in its fourth year of office. In January 1977, 354,000 people were out of work; in January 1978, 445,000 people were out of work; and, in 1979, 493,000 people are out of work in this country. This level of unemployment is an utter disgrace for any government. And the Prime Minister says 'our economic strategy is working'. In an interview which appeared last week in the international magazine  Business Week,  the Prime Minister pointed out that one example of evidence that the economy was picking up and that there would be more jobs was that Australia was exporting ladies underwear to Japan. A close check of our exports of that commodity to Japan shows that we are exporting exactly $2,000 worth of pantyhose. That is the evidence given by the Prime Minister of this country of more jobs being available. Last year he pretended that the export of chairs to Sweden was going to get us out of trouble. A quick check of the number of chairs that we were sending to Sweden shows that we were sending 278 chairs at a total cost of $7,000. This was another example that the Prime Minister gave to show that Australia is getting out of trouble. 
Half a million Australians are now unemployed. A further 250,000 have given up all hope of finding work. They are all victims of the Prime Minister's crank economic policies. Last September, the previous Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  acknowledged that the Government was deliberately creating a permanent pool of unemployed. So, he was sacked by the Prime Minister and replaced with perhaps the greatest cosmetic politician this country has ever seen and had the misfortune to tolerate.  His  record of arrogance and cold hear.tedness over the past few months is astonishing. It would be laughable if its effect were not so grave. In December the present Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs,  Mr Viner,  offered these comments on our unemployed youth. He said: 
Get off your tails and start hunting for jobs because the Government is not going to hand them to you. The Government is philosophically opposed to creating jobs for people. 
I think we should put his little Press statement where it belongs- in the trash can. He further stated: 
If you can mobilise a positive attitude among adults as well as the young that is when you start to bring some pressure on young people who are more content to live off the dole than get off their tails and find work. 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, the latest addition to this role appointed by the Prime Minister, thinks that 197,200 unemployed young people are dole bludgers. That is the attitude of the Minister. For every vacancy registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service, there are presently 28 unemployed people under 21 years of age unable to find work. In Charlestown on the North Coast of New South Wales last week, 1,400 people queued up for 121 vacant positions at a new K-Mart being built in that area. Honourable members on this side of the House- as I am sure honourable members on the other side of the House- can relate dozens of similar instances. In Tea Tree Gully in the north-east suburbs of Adelaide the week before last there was a similar incident when 1,000 people lined up for 100 jobs. The way the people are lining up for jobs is more reminiscent of the cattle yards of Chicago. But that is the position here in Australia in 1979. Not only does the Minister blame the unemployed for this predicament; he is also promoting division within the community by attempting to get employed against unemployed, father against son. and mother against daughter as though parents and their children have responsibility for creating jobs in the community. 
Apparently the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs is not the only member of Cabinet to espouse this selfish philosophy. The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick-  an enlightened fellow, perhaps best known for his attempts to reintroduce sectarianism into education funding- said on 4 February that our young people lack motivation and have no goals in life. Not to be outdone a week later the millionaire Minister from the Gold Coast, the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, weighed in with his comment. He said: 
There are a number of young people in this country who do not want to work. Down on the beach they are fit and tanned and look well. They are getting unemployment benefits and life is quite easy. 
Such is the audacity of a person such as the Minister for Finance who lives in luxury. I do not begrudge him that. He lives on the Isle of Capri and it upsets him and disturbs his life style when he sees people on the beaches who perhaps are unemployed as he drives from Surfers Paradise to Coolangatta to get the aeroplane to go wherever he has to travel. What about the people who do not have work because of this Government's life style? This situation reflects the mad mentality of the Prime Minister. We have to blame the people who are out of work and not in any circumstance allow the argument to be turned against the Government. 
This Government is engaged in a despicable campaign against the unemployed to help to disguise its complete neglect of unemployment. Therefore, it was not surprising that, when the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs released the November unemployment figures showing that 400,000 people could not find work, he described the situation as 'reasonably satisfactory'. The Minister thinks that 400,000 people out of work is reasonably satisfactory. I suppose that he thinks that the January figure of half a million unemployed was an excellent result as far as the Government's economic policies are concerned. He must have taken great pride in the result because since November he has announced a great number of so-called job initiatives which will not create one extra job, but more importantly will cause further division within our community. 
The Voluntary Youth Community Service scheme was announced by the Minister. What an original concept! One would have to be Einstein to come up with that one! The Government wants unemployed young people to work for nothing. The great ideas flowing from this Government will overcome unemployment if the 192,000 young people will work for nothing. Of course the Minister cannot claim all the credit. The Government back bench youth affairs committee wants participants to work for no payment for an unlimited time before the CES will give them consideration for job vacancies which do not exist. That is the first of the great ideas to flow from this Government. I am sure the youth of Australia will remember that in 1 980. 
Already the National Youth Council has rejected the proposal as being of no value to unemployed youth. Even if the unemployed reject this scheme no doubt they will be comforted to know that the Government will establish a national youth advisory group and hold a national youth conference. The quarter of a million unemployed young must be tremendously excited to know that the Government later this year will call a national youth conference! The announcement by the Minister of the addition of 1,000 young people to the Commonwealth payroll for 17 weeks heralded another terrific idea! Do honourable members know what is in store for those young people after 1 7 weeks? The sack! That is what is going to happen to those 1,000 young people. As I said, with all these crazy ideas there is not one job. The Government will just allow unemployment to grow and grow. 
The Government has announced recruitment of an extra 230 apprentices. With typical flare and generosity, the Government has also decided to increase the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training subsidy by $1 a week. That will be a terrific encouragement to employers to take more apprentices on! Last year, 5.6 per cent fewer apprentices were taken on than in the year before. Perhaps someone should tell the Minister that there is a crisis in our apprenticeship system. Instead of importing migrant tradesmen, it might be worth while spending some money on training Australians for skilled jobs. Since August 1974, the employment of tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and process workers has dropped by 94,000 people in Australia. Honourable members may not be aware that the Government has also initiated another brilliant victory on this scene. The Government has spent its money with Kerry Packer on  The Job Show.  Already a great deal of money has been spent with very little result. Perhaps the Minister in his reply would like to give us the results of that new scheme. The Prime Minister and many of his Cabinet members have nothing but contempt for the unemployed. Rather than accept the challenge of creating jobs for a generation of young Australians they are prepared to stand by and blame the unemployed, the education system, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but never their own economic policies and selfish political philosophies. 
The consequences of this deliberate creation of the dole bludger have been enormous. Public discussion on unemployment has frequently degenerated into harangues of so-called bludgers, in place of rational consideration of the causes, nature and effect of the employment crisis. All too often it is insinuated that the unemployment problem stems less from economic factors than from the individual characteristics of the jobless. Thus, the powerless victims of the crisis have somehow come to stand accused of having created their own unemployment- a twist of logic which represents a classic example of blaming the victim. The time has come to stop this anti-social and anti-human strategy. The cost of unemployment is measureless. The loss of a job is, to say the least, highly upsetting for many. Long periods of unemployment lead to chronic and depressed resignation in people and eventually to a lack of conscious awareness of their own capacity. 
Average duration of unemployment is now at levels unprecedented since the Great Depression. In August 1978, 30.6 per cent of all unemployed people under 2 1 years of age had been without work for six months or more while 53 per cent of those aged 45 years and over had been without work for similar periods. High and prolonged levels of unemployment are systematically de-skilling our industrial work force. The community also suffers incalculable economic, social and political costs. The payout of $1 billion in unemployment benefits in 1978-79 is one such cost. The irony of it all is that a government that refuses to pay $1 to create a job will spend $1 billion this year on unemployment benefits. The growing alienation of the young from the community, increases in vandalism, the increasing incidence of unemployment, related health problems and the associated pressures on health and welfare services must also be taken into account. 
Other countries have responded to high unemployment by establishing, amongst other things, programs of job creation. In both the United States and Canada, job creation programs have been set in motion as the trend in joblessness has risen. These programs direct energy and resources not only into the goods producing private sector but also into the services sector, public administration and the community as a whole. Unemployment in the United States fell from 7.8 per cent in December 1976 to 5.9 per cent in December 1978 as a direct result of government job creation programs, despite an increase of 5.9 million in in the number of people entering the job market over that period. In effect, in a period in which our unemployment has almost doubled, the United States has created six million new jobs. As a result, employment opportunities for women and minority groups has increased dramatically. Adult female employment increased by 3.5 million or 10.5 per cent. Black employment increased by 1.2 million or 12 per cent. Inflation during that period averaged about 7.6 per cent which is lower than Australia 's rate. 
This Government refuses to engage in job creation because it panders to the ideological whims of the Prime Minister. It prefers the soft option of income support through pathetic levels of unemployment benefit. It is inflicting a social scar which other Western nations would never tolerate. It pretends that the unemployed live the idyllic existence of a millionaire Minister. It is prepared to accept the immense loss to national output which results from people being unemployed. Its economic policies are a recipe for social and economic disaster. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
How many school leavers were recruited by (a) Commonwealth departments and (b) Commonwealth statutory authorities during each year since 1 970. 
What proportion of the previous year's total school leavers did each figure represent. 
3 ) What proportion of these school leavers were recruited to (a) the fourth division and (b) the third division during each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) How many certificates have been granted pursuant to section 144a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which concerns conscientious objection to union membership. 
How many certificates have been granted on grounds not of a religious character and where the beliefs are not part of the doctrine of any religion. 
3 ) What guidelines are used by the Industrial Registrar in deciding the eligibility of a particular individual to a certificate. 
In how many individual business establishments have certificates been granted to more than 3 objectors. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
How many students graduated from ternary institutions during each year since 1 970. 
How many of these graduates were recruited by (a) Commonwealth departments and (b) Commonwealth statutory authorities during the same years. 
What proportion of these graduate recruits were recruited to (a) the fourth division and (b) the third division during the same years. 
-I ask the Prime Minister Will he tell the Australian people which Government members are principally responsible for making Harry M. Miller the greatest national political handout beneficiary by promoting him to highly paid Government positions on the board of Qantas Airways Limited, on the Meat and Livestock Corporation and as organiser of the Australia bicentenary celebrations? Is the person appointed to these positions the same Harry M. Miller who was the architect of the disastrous computer ticket crash and the promoter of other equally lost causes? 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
-I have been a member of Parliament for only five years but this is the fifth car plan that we have had before us in that very short period. All those plans were predicted to last for a number of yearsbetween four and eight years. The present plan has been inforce for only a matter of months. It was to go until 1984 and already changes are being made. In correct circumstances this may have been very good news for Australia. We are getting a major expansion in the engine building field, we are going to get economy of scale- a term that we all use- we are going to get some export industry and we are going to be tied into the world car. But no one in this House, including the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  who is pretty vague in the information he gives, really knows what it all means. No one really knows. The reason is that Australia, like so many other small countries, does not know how to deal with multi-national companies, and multi-national companies treat us as second class citizens. 
It is predictable because so many countries around the world, some of which are very much larger than Australia, are asking for the recipe- perhaps it is co-operation between all of the countries concerned- so that we can get the answers from some of these companies which indeed are far more powerful than the countries in which they operate. It is extraordinary that we have had all these reports handed down over the years. As I said, just in the five years that I have been here one could fill one's library with the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Department of Industry and Commerce about the car industry and with the debates that have taken place in this House on that industry. But never before has such a scandalous measure been taken to alter plans laid down for the car industry as has been taken on this occasion. One has to ask oneself why General Motors-Holden's Ltd, operating as it does with so many governments in the western world, would tend to use the tactic that it has used in Australia. Why would General Motors do something here which it would not dare to do in the United States of America and which it certainly would not do in West Germany, France or the United Kingdom? I have searched for some sort of answer to that question. The only answer that I can come up with is that the company felt that it had to push the change through because of the very close relationship between the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was felt that, given time, perhaps the general manager of Ford, who is looked upon as the closest adviser to the Prime Minister on the automotive industry in this country, may have been able to talk the Government out of taking this action. 

 - Mr Carlton thinks it is not true. Perhaps honourable members opposite can give some explanation of this very weird behaviour by General Motors. It has done something here which it has not dared do in any other country. We have to be cognisant of the power of these companies and, irrespective of what side of politics we stand on, we have to have some mode of dealing with them so that they respect what we say. There are people in Australia who believe that if we tighten the rules of activity and behaviour of multinational companies in this country they are going to pack up and go home. They operate in other countries under far tougher rules than they operate under in Australia. I do not believe that any honourable member opposite thinks for one instant that General Motors would have done in any other country what it has tried to do in Australia and has done successfully in the last six weeks. 
As I said at the outset, in the long term this decision may prove to be in the best interests of Australia. But one cannot say that the evidence is there to substantiate that statement at the moment. I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  talking about all the component part industries in his electorate. The representatives of General Motors whom I met with  Mr Dunstan  several weeks ago did not have the answers to some of the questions that were raised in the discussion. They did not tell us what goods the company would bring in under by-law for the five per cent credit it intends to build up after March 1982. That is a simple enough question. They must have analysed that. They must know what parts they intend to bring in from overseas. One could say off the cuff that they would be the most expensive parts the company could bring in and that they are also being built in Australia. We should be able to identify immediately the companies that are affected by this decision. 
The Minister has made a very grave mistake, as has the Government, in the way it has dealt with this measure. We are not now dealing with the industry; we are dealing with company by company. General Motors has made a very large breakthrough in the way this whole matter has been handled. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has pointed out to the Parliament, the whole new car plan is based on submissions by one company. There are other companies in this country in the same field which are equally as powerful. I refer to the Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Australia Ltd, which is perhaps a little less powerful, and the Japanese manufacturers, Nissan and Toyota. As I have said, I have spoken in a number of debates on car plans, all of which plans were to last a number of years and none of which did. None of those discussions took the place of a debate about what the consumers may have wanted in Australia. Basically we concern ourselves about what is good for the companies and how best we can protect the employment opportunities of people in the industry. 
The Minister has pointed out in his statement that this engine plant will provide new employment opportunities. Of course it will. This is a new engine plant and there will be new jobs there, but they will be filled by people who are displaced from other industries as a result of this move. In fact, every honourable member knows that many more people will lose their jobs than will be placed in the new jobs at the General Motors engine plant. If the automated engine plants of Datsun through which I walked at Yokohama are anything like the engine plant that will be built here in Australia, it will be a highly automated plant and will not employ very many people at all. The investment for that type of plant will be enormous and the number of people who work in it will not be anything like the number we may have seen in the old engine plants of the past. For the sake of the Australian workforce we should know where people will lose jobs. We are talking about six per cent of all the people who work in the manufacturing industry in Australia. We are talking about 14 per cent of all the people who work in the manufacturing industry in my own State of South Australia. This is a very heavy decision for the future of the car industry. Whilst all the previous plans we have discussed- we have normally been discussing the reports on which they are based- were to start almost forthwith, this is the first plan we have put before us that is to be put into operation three years hence. The three years that have been described as the lead up to the new car plan in my opinion belong in an industrial no man's land. 
I do not believe that the Government, any Government member, any honourable member on this side of the House or the industry itself really knows what is going to happen. All we know, leaving aside the engine plant, is that the John McEwen plan for 95 per cent Australian content, which was a grossly stupid industrial and political decision taken years ago, is now an 80 per cent Australian content plan. We do know that a vast share of the ownership of manufacturing industry and a good deal of the share of the ownership in the larger component industry are in the hands of the overseas companies where the decisions are being made. I put it to this Parliament that we are going to have to be tougher with these companies if we want the answers, and those answers should be given. If this Plan is carried out to the letter, as announced by the Minister, until March 1 982, what powers will this Government have to monitor and police the carrying out of the new plan? If this Government were to conduct a search in other countries in which these companies operate it would find that there are powers used by the governments in those countries to monitor the activities of these companies to make sure that they live by the letter of the law. But in this country there is no such mechanism. How will the Public Service of Australia monitor the activities of GMH, the Ford Motor Co, Nissan, Datsun or Chrysler? Obviously the company policy of GMH will become the policy to be adopted not only by the Australian Government but by all Australian manufacturing industry. All of it will be affected. It will become the policy of all the other companies. The company heads are sitting at their drawing boards seeing how best they can manipulate the new plan, how best they will be able to compete with what GMH has announced. They will all be bringing in the parts which are too dear to buy in Australia. Some of those parts are now produced in the more decentralised areas of Australia. Those areas will be the first to suffer. Those companies that have the investment available to them in the component industry to produce in line with what GMH is doing will probably survive and take part in the complementation plan. No one is able to say from the Minister's statement that everything is clear and above board. I invite honourable members to have a look at the statement in respect of the Industries Assistance Commission. The Minister said: 
In the course of the next few weeks a reference will be sent to the Industries Assistance Commission . . . 
We do not even know the reference to the IAC. We were not told when the Government announced this new plan. In the statement the Minister said that the reference will seek: 
Advice within 12 months on post 1984 assistance arrangements for the motor vehicle industry; and 
An interim report within six months on the remaining elements of the export credit scheme to be introduced into the present Plan. 
What will happen if the IAC, having been given a reference which we will have a look at in a few weeks tells us something quite different, which has been its wont in the last few years in respect of the car industry? What will happen then? There is no way in the world that someone will put up his hand and stop the proposed construction of the GMH engine plant. The people who will be left crying will be those people whom it will be too late to help. If this Government had alongside its industry policy a policy to effect the manpower of this country one could perhaps sleep a little easier but there is no such thing with this Government. This Government is deliberately building up the number of unemployed people. The fact that it can introduce a plan which puts a question mark over the heads of many other people in the component industry, the manufacturing industry and the automotive industry in this country at the moment means that it will put more people out of work. If the Government were serious about the matter, obviously it would be saying that there has to be some sort of structural adjustment looked at in terms of the livelihood of the people who will be affected by this decision. But there is no such plan. There is no manpower planning running parallel with the decision of GMH. 
We have heard from the Minister that the trade union movement was consulted. It was advisable for him to use that term- it had been consulted. The trade union movement represents almost 100 per cent of the people who work in the industry. There has been an arrangement between the unions and the employers for a long time. They almost have a closed shop in the automobile industry of this country. The unions are entitled to be heard on this question. They hold great fears about what all this means. Perhaps some of those fears could be put to rest if the Government knew what was happening, but fortunately, as is evident from the statement made to the House by the Minister, the statements that have been made outside the House, the amount of information being given by the company itself and the meanderings of the component industry which has swung backwards and forwards in the last fortnight the information which the trade union movement requires is not available to be given. Everything is up in the air. I do not wish to predict doomsday for the new plan but I will be really surprised if another three years passes in this Parliament without a debate on a new car plan because another company will have another idea about what it wants to do. Enormous industrial development will take place in that three years in those countries in which industries are moving and perhaps the world concept of a car will move a few more steps along the road. I do not pretend for one moment that any decision taken by this Government can prevent it. One has only to look at the design of the latest models available to the consumers in this country to know that we are already locked in. One had only to read the 1974 report of the IAC on the automobile industry to realise that we were going to be locked in but we did not have to be a patsy and a pansy to the demands of one company to turn this industry upside down without being able to give us the professional, sophisticated answers to which the Australian people are entitled. 
Yesterday we were given a very disdainful interpretation of what is occurring in regard to unemployment in Australia by the new Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  He used as the basis for his comments about unemployment in this country the fruits and wine industry in this country and stated that the major growing areas of Shepparton and Mildura were unable to obtain all the labour they required to harvest the fruit. This has been the situation for many years. It is not unusual at the peak of the harvest period for those centres not to be able to attract all the labour they require. But the Minister took it one step further yesterday and I am pleased to see reports in today's Press that the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs knew nothing of the Minister's intentions when he rose to answer the question. 
Let me deal first with the mentality of this Government which attacks people who are out of jobs. Most of the people who are now unemployed have become unemployed since this Government came to power at the end of December 1975. Yesterday a question was asked of the Minister by  Mr Baillieu,  the honourable member for La Trobe.  Mr Baillieu  would never have had to live as an unemployed person has to live, nor would he have known very many people who have had to live in those circumstances. A glance at the  Who's Who in Australia  would show that the Baillieu family, of which  Mr Baillieu  is a member, is one of the most privileged families in this country. No fewer than four columns of  Who's Who in Australia  are taken up by the reference to the Baillieu family which shows all their connections with major Australian industries and the wealth and property that they own throughout this country.  Mr Baillieu  asked whether the work test should be extended so that perhaps people could be forced to go to work from areas a long way from their homes. 
To the astonishment and the amazement of everybody on this side of the House, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, who has held that position for approximately three months, made the harshest statement about unemployment in this country than has been made in the three and a half years of this Government. He replaced the former Minister just three months ago and there can be absolutely no doubt now why the Minister has been given this position. It is to do a hatchet job on the unemployed of this country. Last year in the August Budget $794m was allocated for the payment of unemployment benefits in the 1978-79 financial year. Everybody on both sides of this Parliament knows that the payment for unemployment benefits will be at least $100m more than the amount allocated by the Government in the Budget of last year. Someone, somehow, acting with the backing of this Government has to take action to reduce that amount. This is the thinking of the Government. 
Subsequently in his statement yesterday the Minister stated that the work test would be applied not only to the people who live in Mildura and Shepparton, the region where the work may be available- I will say a little more about that later- but also that it may be extended to Melbourne. I do not know why the Minister has looked only at the State borders or whether perhaps there will be a work test in Sydney and Adelaide to force people to go to work in those regions so far away from their homes. The Minister, according to the answer he gave in Parliament yesterday, seems to think that it is a fair thing that if these people are paid their expenses- he used the term very loosely- to go to these areas to work and they do not go, they refuse to go, the taxpayers should not have to contribute towards their unemployment benefit. 
It is a rather amusing thing about this Government that when, approximately one hour ago, it came to light that part of the Prime Minister's own very extremely wealthy family has been given a low interest loan of $250,000, the Labor Party is accused of muck-raking. But people who are legitimately out of work in Melbourne, who now refuse to go to Mildura to pick fruit, are going to be robbed of their unemployment benefit. According to this Government, they are dole bludgers, bludging on the taxpayers. But not the Prime Minister's family! The pensioners of this country have to forgo $27m in pension payments. This year the Prime Minister spent the $27m on VIP aircraft. The people of Australia ought to look at this Government when it makes decisions like that. 
There are a number of millionaires who sit on the front bench of the Government, and they make these decisions. We do not decry them their wealth. Perhaps we wish that everybody in Australia could share it so that we all could live in a privileged position similar to theirs. The honourable member for La Trobe, the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and so many of their colleagues have that privilege. We demand that some conscience be shown by them when they look at the problems of people who are out of work in this country. We demand that they understand that perhaps people in Melbourne who are unemployed- many of them newly arrived migrants- would not even know where Shepparton and Mildura are. They would have no idea of the work to be undertaken. 
I can readily understand the problems, as I have spent six years organising workers in the Riverland fruit district of South Australia. I can readily understand the massive problems that are faced by the fruit growers of this country. But why is the Government bleeding for the fruitgrowers in March, when it imposed the excise on Australian made brandy six months ago? Ask the fruitgrowers about that decision. That is another matter that the Government sees as quite separate. 
It was announced on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news in Shepparton less than one hour ago that the Shepparton Commonwealth Employment Service office does not want fruit pickers and that there are no vacancies for fruit pickers in Shepparton. That is according to the ABC news. We heard the Minister telling us yesterday that if people from Melbourne did not force themselves to go there they would lose their unemployment benefit and would have to live on absolutely nothing or hand-outs from a few friends. This is far too serious a question to be left to yesterday's announcement. It is just another factor in the way in which this Government treats unemployed people. 
I do not rely on my own knowledge of the industry or the fact that I have had something to do with it or perhaps rely on what was said in this Parliament yesterday. Today we have made inquiries of the union that covers the fruit growing industry, the Australian Workers Union. Yesterday  Mr Viner  told us that expenses would be paid to the people who travel to the district. Expenses are not paid. Our inquiries of the Department this morning revealed that a person would receive a second class rail fare. I do not think any person in his wildest dreams would declare that as being expenses. 
As far as accommodation is concerned, if we shift thousands of people for hundreds of miles away into these districts there must be a lot of accommodation available for the people to take up, because they have got to leave their own homes. According to the people we talked to this morning, the accommodation is poor and virtually non-existent. The CES in its advertising campaign in Victoria at the moment says that people with their own accommodation, caravans, et cetera, are more than welcome'. Are all the unemployed people in Melbourne expected to buy a caravan for thousands of dollars so that they can work for six or seven weeks at Shepparton or Mildura? For how long will they be off the unemployment benefit when the job finishes and they return to Melbourne? They would have to wait another six weeks to receive their unemployment benefit. 
The stance taken by the Minister is quite unreal. I asked the appropriate union what sort of pay these people would get if they did go into these industries. I am told that the payment in Victoria is a bin rate of $7 a bin; an experienced picker would do four bins a day. He would earn $28. If the picker is a novice he would be lucky to pick one bin a day. No one has any guarantee of permanency. It is a question of going to Shepparton and taking pot luck. It is trite to say that there are hundreds of jobs, when there is absolutely no guarantee of getting work, particularly when people are inexperienced. 
Let us look at the unemployment benefit, according to the CES offices that we have contacted. If a picker were sacked because he was inexperienced and just could not do the work- I can assure honourable members, having seen the work being done, there are a lot of people in Australia who could not do the work- he would have to wait seven days before he could reapply for the unemployment benefit. If he left voluntarily because of intolerable working conditions he would have to wait another six weeks before he was eligible for the benefit. I have already explained the travel expenses, which amount to a second class train fare into the district in which the work may be available. 
Let us look at the unemployed figures and the registered vacancies for last month in these districts. In Shepparton there were 3,495 people registered as unemployed. There were 64 registered vacancies. That is the situation in Shepparton according to the January figures. In Mildura 2,591 people were registered as unemployed. There were 1,700 registered vacancies at the height of the harvest. I have talked with the honourable member in whose electorate Mildura is. I believe him, because the same thing happens in Renmark, Loxton, Berri and Waikerie, when he says that people living locally, even people who do not normally work during the year, take on these positions. But they return to their homes and families every night. 
What this Government fails to understand is that there are a lot of highly trained unemployed people in this country. The Government cannot say to them: 'Irrespective of how much training you have done, your higher school certificate or tertiary education, you are going to leave your family, you are going to leave your home. Here is a second class train fare. You are going to Mildura to pick grapes'. We in this House need to have some understanding of the industry, the plight of the industry, what it needs and the labour force that is required at the height of the harvest. But more and more this Government should have a greater conscience about the plight of unemployed people. 
Without this sort of attack occurring there are enough hurdles in the way of the recipients of unemployment benefits. They are financially worse off than many other people, for reasons that I will outline. They are not eligible for the supplementary rent allowance paid to other pensioners and those who have been on sickness benefits for more than six weeks. They or their spouses may not earn more than $6 a week without a dollar for dollar deduction from their benefit. Other pensioners can earn up to $20 a week without penalty. Allowances for dependent spouses and children of unemployment beneficiaries are taxable. They are not taxable for other pensioners and lone parents. They receive no fringe benefits. They have no telephone, travel, rates, pharmaceutical and other concessions. They have no pensioner health benefit card and are at the mercy of their doctors' political and philosophical views. 
They must produce proof of looking for work constantly, but can receive travel expenses only for jobs to which they are referred by the CES. All other expenses in looking for work must be borne personally. Unemployment benefit is withdrawn from persons whose dress is considered below an acceptable standard, necessitating constant expenditure on clothing. If an unemployment benefit is withdrawn and an appeal is lodged with the Social Security Appeals Tribunal, the unemployment benefit is not paid while the appeal is considered. For other pensioners, continuity of pension or benefit continues during consideration of the appeal. 
There are many hurdles already in the way of people who are unemployed in this country. Their dignity has already been submerged below a line which we in the Labor Party find acceptable. It is about time the bunch of millionaires sitting on the front bench of the Liberal-National Country Party Government, with all the perks of office that they have, with the privileged position that they have given themselves over the years, took into consideration the plight of unemployed people in this country. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Again the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Government have demonstrated their complete lack of humanity in dealing with this monumental problem of unemployment in Australia. For every job that is now available in Australia there are at least 22 people out of work. In the unskilled arena, for every job that is available there are 100 people out of work. There are 493,000 people in Australia registered as unemployed. Two inquiries have already been conducted- the Norgard inquiry and the Myers inquiry- into the allocation of resources within the Commonwealth Employment Service and the payment of unemployment benefit. But the only thing that this Government can do is play on the fears of taxpayers, of those who are in work, that perhaps some of their taxes are being paid to people who are not legitimately entitled to unemployment benefit. The only solution that the Government can put forward to the national Parliament in order to get the unemployment figures down is to increase the policing of or to extend the means testing of people receiving the miserly amount that is paid out as unemployment benefit The Government is playing on fears and is dividing this country because of the manner in which it is approaching the problem. 
Last night in Chicago the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made a statement on this subject. In normal circumstances I would not comment on what a senior Minister was saying outside this country, but in a speech that the Treasurer made last night- a speech which is now available to every member of this Parliament because it has come through on the telex- he told a group of American businessmen that the economic policy of the Government of Australia was to continue to fight inflation, even at the cost of high unemployment. They are the words used by the Treasurer when speaking outside the country. That is something that he is not prepared to admit inside the country. 
Now that it is out in the open, everybody ought to realise that those who find themselves unfortunate enough to be unemployed are unemployed as a direct result of policies being adopted by this Government. Every policy adopted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  since coming to power at the end of 1 975 has been designed to put on the shoulders of all the working people of this country the complete burden of the economic policies of this Government We have seen the rate of unemployment grow to last month's figure of 493,000. The Minister does not refer to the work done by Norgard or Myers; nor should he because if Government members read the recommendations of those two inquiries they will find that the recommendations of the Minister today fly in the face of quite comprehensive inquiries carried out by professional people. 
I have a word of warning for those people who may be falling for the theory being put forward by this Government. Of course taxpayers are concerned. Not only are they carrying their normal burden of income tax, but also in this financial year as a result of the economic bungling by this Government they are paying a  lib  per cent surcharge. They do not want to be caught, it would seem, in view of the Government's charges, by the need to pay more taxes that will in turn have to be paid out in unemployment benefits. This Government that will not spend a cent to create a job now admits to have paid out in this financial year in the vicinity of $900m in unemployment and sickness benefits. This Government, on its performance on this issue, should resign and allow someone to attempt to overcome this massive problem. On work tests the Minister says that everybody is to be forced to do the job. The inquiry that has been announced by the Minister today is a sham. I do not for one instant believe that there will be any further, thorough inquiry by the departments concerned. I believe that the Prime Minister has made up his mind and wants an interdepartmental committee to justify his decision to tell us why there ought to be a tougher work test on the people that he deliberately has put out of work. His attitude is: Make them travel from their homes; make them do jobs they are not trained to do; make them do anything at all but get the unemployment figures down. 
Already the Government has succeeded in this. The latest figures show that 46,000 school leavers have disappeared. They are not registered for employment and they are not in the work force. A young chap, a report of an interview with whom appeared in the  National Times  on Sunday, said that people on the north shore of Sydney do not want their children to register for employment. They do not want them to put their names down at the CES office. They do not want their children to receive unemployment benefits- not because of a rationale that the young people are not entitled to them but because they live in fear of the stigma that would be associated with the family if a young person was out of work and receiving unemployment benefits. This is what is occurring. Thousands of young people are not registering because of the fear of the stigma that would be associated with it. 
Why does not the Minister or the Government tell us why the recommendations of the Myers and Norgard committees cannot be adopted? What are the inadequacies of the two reports that require another interdepartmental committee to be set up? What is the Government trying to hide? People are entitled to some answers on this question. Talk about taxpayers being concerned. In this country at the moment the people who have a job and who are paying taxes are the lucky ones. They should consider themselves very fortunate that they can go to work while this Government is in office because as the opportunities in industry dwindle the axe hangs over the head of a lot more people there. I refer honourable members to some of the remarks that have been reported in today's Press. The Prime Minister is reported, in referring to the administration of unemployment benefits, as saying: 
I've no reason not to be satisfied- it's a highly complex area and improvements have been made. 
No notice was given that later in the day there would be a statement that things were not as the Government would like them to be: 'We are going to tighten them up even further'. Instead, on the same day we have a review announced by the new Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs,  Mr Viner,  on the administration of a work test, a subject that had been covered comprehensively by two previous reviews that were in general agreement. The Norgard Committee, which was set up on 17 October 1976, reported in June 1977. That committee was to look at the objectives and functions of the CES, including its role vis-a-vis unemployment benefits. At the beginning of 1977 an early draft indicated to the Government that the committee was not going to come up with any tough recommendations about the unemployed. . 
So the Government set up another review body, the Myers Committee. That committee was set up in March 1977, and reported in July 1977. It was to look at unemployment benefits with a view to ascertaining, among other things, what limits if any should be set to levels and duration of unemployment, and the effect of income support measures on the incentive of unemployed persons actively to seek employment. The Government has implemented neither of these reports. The Norgard Committee made, and the Myers Committee supported, certain major recommendations. First, the creation of job opportunities was to have the highest priority. Let me reiterate that when the Government set up outside committees to look at this question they did not come down with recommendations to reduce unemployment by imposing a tougher work test, by breaking up families or pushing people all over the country. They said that the No. 1 priority had to be that of creating jobs. 
The committees further recommended the removal of responsibility for continual work testing and income support procedures from the CES; that income support should be assumed by the Department of Social Security; that the CES should concentrate on the placement of job seekers; and that the Department of Social Security needed more decentralised offices and outposted staff to carry out face to face interviews and counselling. In the experience of some honourable members on this side of the chamber, because of the instructions that are being channelled through CES offices, employers are receiving people who are just not accustomed to the sort of work that is available in their work places. Employers are being annoyed by the fact that all of these people are being channelled through to them, even though they are totally unsatisfactory for the sort of jobs that may be available. In both cases these major reports have been pigeonholed. . 
The Myers Committee reported that-  . . . the provision of unemployment benefit is a poor substitute for full or nearly- full employment. 
People have to keep in mind what the Government has been saying about this issue during the  Vh  years that it has been in office. Do not forget that it was this Government which, at the end of 1975, said that the Labor Government had bungled things but that under the Liberals there would be jobs for everyone. This is the Government that followed up that promise in 1977, when Malcolm Fraser, the architect of high unemployment, told the people of Australia during an election campaign- a period during which he will say anything- that unemployment would drop as from February 1978 and would continue to drop. A total lie about this question has been told in Australia by this Government. People are expected now to believe that it will overcome the problem by imposing a harsher work test. The Myers Committee said also: 
Registration with the CES should be regarded as prima facie evidence of the willingness to work. 
Prima facie evidence of the willingness to work, according to the Myers Committee, is registering with the CES. I say to the taxpayers, to whom the Minister directed most of his suggestions and innuendo about why the Government was doing these things: Why is it that the Government believes that this generation of Australians will not go to work, when other generations would? I remind them, as I did at the outset, that for every vacancy throughout Australia 22 people are out of work. If every vacancy were taken up tomorrow we would still have 470,000 people out of work, and in the unskilled areas the proportion of applicants to vacancies would be perhaps 100 to one. The Myers Committee said further: 
The Inquiry has doubts also about the desirability of the work test. If it succeeds in its objective of encouraging the reluctant worker into the workforce, unless an additional job is created, the consequence is that another worker is displaced from the workforce and becomes eligible for benefit . . . unless the community is willing to allow one of its members to receive no income whatever, the value of a general application of the work test must be in doubt. 
Why has the Minister decided to ignore all of the advice of the committees? It was this Government, not a Labor government which created the Norgard and Myers committees and sought their advice. Now the Government has ignored it. No explanation has been given to this Parliamentjust the big hammer for the unemployed. Put the blame on the people that this Government has put out of work! The Myers Committee said also: 
Further tightening -  of the work testis  not really practicable in the absence of vacancies against which to test people. 
The Myers Committee also recommended a more lenient approach than that of the Government on voluntary unemployment should be taken. It held that a six weeks penalty should not be imposed unless circumstances had been carefully investigated. This Government is not very keen on carefully investigating the enormous problems that are being faced by unemployed people in this country. Recommendation No. 16 of the Myers Committee states: 
That where an adverse work test report is received the Department of Social Security immediately interview the claimant or beneficiary with a view to obtaining a written acknowledgement of the facts in the CES report and any further statement he may wish to make, and that these matters be taken into account by the Department of Social Security in deciding the issue. 
But there is none of the sophistication to which Myers and Norgard applied themselves, about the operation of the payment and the operation of finding people jobs through the CES, in the bludgeoning that is characteristic of the Minister's statement of today. What a sham it is to say: 'We are going to have a fortnight's inquiry to see the way it is going to apply'. This Government is trying to build fear amongst those who are at work, that perhaps some of their money is being wasted. Perhaps the people who are concerned about that ought to look at other ways in which this Government is spending money. Malcolm Fraser is the greatest lurk man that this Parliament has ever seen. He spends money on VIP jets, additions to the Lodge and hotel bills of $600 a night in New York. Malcolm Fraser can have all those things but the benefit to the unemployed has to be cut from $53 a week. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I refer the Minister to his utterances that taxpayers were concerned that many able-bodied people were wandering around Australia when they should be working. I ask the Minister to give the Parliament and the people of Australia, including all taxpayers, the latest figures the Government has for the financial year 1977-78 on how many people were prosecuted and convicted for illegally receiving the unemployment benefit? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. 
I did not wish to enter into a debate with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  What I said in the Parliament had nothing to do with the private discussion that I had with him previously. The figures I gave to the Parliament were the latest figures available from the Bureau of Statistics and those figures were made available to members of the Parliament. If any honourable member looks at the figures for January, he will find them to be accurate. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence I wish to make some reference to the remarks you made yesterday about the role of the  Speaker  because I want you to take another matter into account when you are writing letters to the parties involved. 

 - Mr Speaker, as you know from my interjection yesterday, I am very much in support of the matter of the role of the  Speaker  being researched. As you would also know, some two years ago the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  raised with you in this Parliament the role of the  Speaker  outside the Parliament. You explained then, as you did yesterday, that the role of the  Speaker  in this Parliament was not seen in the same light as the role of the  Speaker  under the Westminster system in the House of Commons. 
I say to you,  Mr Speaker,  that perhaps the matter raised previously by the honourable member for Gellibrand is also a matter that you should take into account when you are writing to the parties, although not so much in terms of your own personal role, which was the subject of some controversy, but in terms of the effect on the media. From observing the way in which the media treated the role of the  Speaker,  in this case yourself, acting in industrial jurisdiction, it is obvious that it seems to give a great deal more attention to a case because you are the  Speaker  than it might do if you appeared just as an industrial advocate. I raise this matter with you because it has been raised with me by several of my constituents who were involved in the last industrial case in Adelaide in which I think you appeared. It was given a great deal of publicity by the media and I think that a lot of that media coverage was given as a result of your being  Speaker  of this House. I just ask that you take my remarks into account when you write to the parties involved. 
As to the publicity that was given to the industrial case in which I appeared, that is a matter for the media, not for me. I cannot control the media, as the honourable gentleman would know. The issues that were involved in that particular case were of very great significance to the whole of the work force of this country, and I felt that I was making a very considerable contribution to a major issue. If the matter was covered by the media, then that was the media's decision. I will take into account what the honourable gentleman has said, but I see the matter as totally separate and distinct from the issue I am putting forward and which I indicated yesterday I would put forward. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the discussion of and support given to public funding of campaigns by political parties? Does he agree with this concept and will he now establish a joint committee of this Parliament to look at all aspects of the financing of political parties during campaigns? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the procedures as outlined by the Leader of the Government  (Mr Sinclair).  However, in reference to the comment made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr 
Bryant), we believe that it would be impossible for the national Parliament of this country to be used on very many occasions as it is being used today. For instance, if someone is to give notice next week about capital punishment, are we to believe that the Government is going to turn over one day of our sittings to debate capital punishment? Are we going to go through all the procedures of the amendments that may be moved in a debate of that nature? In my opinion, and on behalf of the Opposition, in view of the matters that the Government refuses to debate in this Parliament, it is most derisory that so much time is being spent going over a subject which has already been debated at length in this Parliament. Now that the Government has brought it on, we have no opposition to the procedures. We just wish that some of our speakers may have had more time available to them. 
The way that the procedure will be followed, the mover of the motion and the mover of the first amendment obviously will be given precedence in the debate. Some honourable members on our side will not be allowed to make their views known as they ought to be because the Government, in its idiotic manner of handling business in this Parliament, has encouraged every pressure group in Australia over the last fortnight to try to change our minds from the way we may have voted some years ago in the Parliament on the same subject. What the Government is doing today really exposes that it does not want to discuss some of the national economic issues which confront it. 
I am very much opposed to the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  both on ethical grounds- the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  supports it on ethical grounds- and on economic grounds. I put it to the House that the number of terminations of pregnancy that have been cited to this House today will not be altered by any decision of this House. Father Murray Courtnay, a very eminent Catholic of the United States of America, says: Parliament cannot legislate on morality'. We cannot do that. What will occur, as the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  quite brilliantly pointed out, is that the low wage and salary earners of this country will return to using the sorts of facilities that were available to them prior to any decent arrangements being made with the medical profession in this country by way of legislation. The other important factor about this issue is that State parliaments which have made the laws which the Lusher motion now calls on us to condemn are made up a little differently from this House: Most of those parliaments have some women members. By and large the parliamentarians who serve in the State parliaments and who have made those laws are people like the members of this Parliament. 
This is not a debate about the miserable amount of money to which the Lusher motion points. This debate is a rearguard action mounted by people who are not happy with the decisions that have already been made by the various legislatures around this country. Those people ought to recognise that parliaments are made up of people like ourselves; they are not made up of criminals or people who introduce laws designed to force people to take certain actions to terminate pregnancies. It is men and women- people like ourselves- who are making these laws. These people expect us to work in harmony and in co-operation with them and to take a decent attitude towards them. 
There are many other issues involved in this debate, as  Dr Jenkins  has pointed out. If we prevent medical benefits from being paid in relation to the termination of pregnancies, how many other areas of medical treatment will we look at in preventing a similar amount of money from being paid out? In conclusion, I suggest that if we carry the Lusher motion, which seeks to remove the medical benefits that are paid by the Commonwealth, the States will have to meet that financial commitment, and I am sure that they will. 
If I were to go beyond that, I think the list would stretch a little far. I have a list of speakers which I could pursue if that were the wish of the House. It is obvious that some significant names are not on the list I have given- for instance, that of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The reason I have been reluctant to establish a list of speakers is simply that I do not know the names of all the people who want to speak and I do not know the attitudes of all of the people who want to speak. Unless I have that information I cannot call alternately people with opposing points of view. I think I have gone far enough in the indication I have given of the order in which I may call honourable members. It is open to any honourable member to come to the Chair and ask for his name to be placed on the list in a position higher than that in which it now appears. 
Sitting suspended from 6.3 to 8 p.m. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.0)- I support the motion known as the Lusher motion moved by the honourable member for Hume. I feel that I should read the motion because it is some time since its terms were put to the House. The motion states: 
That this House requests the Government to introduce legislation which will provide that- 
1 ) medical benefits shall not be provided by the Commonwealth for the termination of pregnancy unless the termination was performed to protect the life of the mother from a physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way, and 
where medical expenses are incurred in respect of a medical service specified in the Medical Benefits Schedule which could include the termination of pregnancy, the doctor who performed the service shall be required to certify to the Department of Health that- 
the operation was not performed to terminate a pregnancy, but was for a stated, other purpose, or 
if the operation was performed to terminate a pregnancy, it was carried out in order to protect the life of the mother from a specified physical pathological condition and that the life could be protected in no other way. 
I support this motion because I am morally opposed to abortion. I believe from the thousands of letters I have received, mostly from women, that the vast majority of people in my electorate also are morally opposed to abortion. But over and above that, we believe that the Australian Parliament as the custodian of civil liberties and human values has a responsibility when dealing with human rights such as the public funding of abortions to consider the effect that decisions reached in this Parliament will have not only on this generation but also on future generations of Australians. No one in this Parliament surely believes that by spending $3.4m plus to encourage 60,000 abortions we are laying down the foundations of a better nation. I believe that great nations are built only by governments that accept the responsibility to reinforce and positively provide the right morality in the community. I do not think this can be achieved by encouraging 60,000 abortions. 
I respect the view put forward by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  that he has every consideration for those people who have views different to his own on this problem. I have a genuine respect for the conscientious convictions and viewpoints of other honourable members that differ from those I hold. Many of these honourable member's regardless of the way they feel, claim that we have no justification to interfere with a woman's right to do what she wishes with her own body. But I feel that we cannot shunt off our responsibility in this manner because there is a moral aspect in the termination of pregnancy that in our opinion involves the right of an unborn child. This Parliament must ask itself: What are the facts in the biological development of a child; is there life at stake in every abortion; what are the possible long term complications to the mother, the family and the nation; does an abortion terminate the life of a child or is the so-called foetus just a piece of tissue? It seems to me that these fundamental considerations have been glossed over in public discussions on this matter and in the debate in this Parliament. Yet we are repeatedly told by renowned authorities that life begins at conception. Jerome Lejeune, Professor of Fundamental Genetics at the University of Paris, feels so strongly on this very point that he has stated: 
If I could not agree that life begins at conception I could not teach genetics. 
Betrand Nathason, Director of the Centre for Reproductive and  Sexual  Health in the United States of America, also states: 
There is no longer any doubt in my mind that human life exists in the womb from the very onset of pregnancy. 
Other members who have spoken before me have already pointed out the authorities who share this view. It seems to me then that we are not dealing with something that is mere tissue. It seems to be clearly established that the baby in the womb has its own blood group, its own bloodstream and its own individuality. 
It must be admitted that in planned or unplanned pregnancy followed by an abortion or even by childbirth the female pays the greater price in human involvement and in human suffering. We agree with many speakers who oppose the motion in this respect. A woman in such a circumstance is entitled to every consideration and assistance. Fortunately we can say that in the vast majority of cases she receives this consideration and assistance. But society cannot escape its responsibility to the unfortunate woman who does not get this assistance by simply saying: 'You can do what you like with the unborn child and we'- that is society or the government- 'will pay the medical or surgical bill'. There can be no doubt that 60,000 medical benefit funded abortions indicate how many unfortunate women are reading the present attitude of this Parliament or Government to abortion. 
The single girl with an unplanned or unwanted pregnancy is often in the same predicament as a married woman whose husband refuses to share the responsibility. The present message to both these unfortunate women is: We have left you an escape; you have an abortion and we will pay the medical or surgical bill'. We cannot escape our responsibility in this manner. We know that social, economical and physiological problems exist, but they do not justify the destruction of human life. We have no right to offer abortion as the only solution to these unfortunate women. We should endeavour to solve the problem in several other ways instead of destroying the life in the mother's womb. 
I am pleased to say from thousands of letters I have received that the vast majority of women do not want the termination of pregnancy to be something they should have to decide on their own. They realise that the termination of pregnancy involves the termination of a life. Scientific evidence clearly indicates that once conception takes place we have the life of an unborn child to consider. This is a moral issue that concerns all the people of the nation who have a right to object to their tax money being used for such a purpose, unless, of course, the life of the mother is involved. 
The argument has been put forward that many of us oppose abortion only because of some Christian faith or some Christian belief. If we accept that argument we must also accept the converse argument that pro-abortion support is generated by an anti-Christian attitude to the sacredness of life. I do not like the argument but if it can be applied one way we are justified in applying it the other way. 
However, let me state my position on this matter. I believe that the conception and life of a child in a mother's womb and its birth concern not only co-operation between man and woman to bring new life into the world but are also the very basis of Christian belief in the creator and in the sacredness of human life. I do not mind being counted on that issue. Many people say that the poor will be discriminated against if the motion is carried. I say that with 60,000 abortions in one year the present legislation discriminates against the poor. We know that some people will always take the easy way out, but I do not believe that this is the case in the majority of the 60,000 abortions. Many of these women feel that society is saying to them: 'If you cannot alford the confinement or if you do not think you can keep the child after birth, we have given you a way out. You can have an abortion and we will pay for it'. Is this not discrimination against the poor? Have they not a right to carry the child and see the birth of the child? I would say that in most cases this is the most callous way out possible. The amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan, in my opinion, displays a Pontius Pilate attitude by saying to the people. 'We will provide the money but the States have the responsibility for making the law'. Surely this is not standing up to a national obligation. We should be giving the States some clear indication of how this national Parliament thinks about these things. 
Let me return to the claim that it is the responsibility of members of this Parliament to spend the nation's revenue for the welfare of the nation. Surely no one would say that 60,000 abortions a year at a cost of between $4m and $6m are in the best interests of the nation. Is this the way we dispense our responsibility to the nation? The abortion syndrome is gathering momentum. If an honourable member can see no danger now, will he see any danger when the number of abortions reaches 100,000 or 200,000 or when the cost reaches $10m, $20m or more millions of dollars? At what stage will he consider that there is a danger to the welfare of the nation? I claim that with 60,000 abortions a year there is already a danger to the welfare of the nation, and the taxpayer who believes that this is so should not be forced to pay for a practice that is destroying the welfare of our nation. 
-This is a corrupt Government which is in the pocket of the oil companies. The reason it will not debate this issue in the Parliament is that it is hiding what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  said behind closed doors. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
He will not disclose in the Parliament what he said. 
This is a corrupt Government in the pocket of the oil companies. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was not being disrespectful to the Chair. Because all the yahoos on the other side were making so much noise, I could not hear. 
Question put- 
-By any standard which one judges members of this Government, it must be said that they are the most incompetent bunch of people in economic or as in this case, industrial relations matters. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  knows that what he said is pure humbug. The fact that he has made this statement after the ranting and raving and the four-paragraph statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to which this Parliament was subjected last Thursday shows that the Government is not interested at all in good industrial relations. The Government is the largest employer in this country of people who work less than 40 hours. 
Some major decisions have been made while this Government has been in power. I refer not just to the decisions of governments, unions or employers. The senior industrial tribunal in this country has spoken on the question of a shorter working week and on the question of workers sharing the benefits of greater productivity. It does not see those benefits as being merely in the form of wages; it sees those benefits also in the form of a shorter working week. I wish to quote what  Deputy President  Isaac had to say on the question of a shorter working week in the case of the Australian Postal Commission versus the Telecom technicians. He said: 
With practically no extra cost to the consumer, but also promises of better industrial relations and greater production in the future, we would be failing in our statutory duty if we did not grant the application and applaud the new spirit of industrial relations which it represents. 
The senior industrial tribunal in this country spoke on how the matter being discussed before it assisted the work force in sharing the benefits of greater productivity not only by an increase in wages but also by a shorter working week. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sent his boy, the Treasurer, to rant and rave in a four paragraph statement last Thursday. This important statement which has been put to the House today to be debated by eight speakers shows quite clearly how much seriousness is given to the matter by this Government. One would have thought that this was a major breakthrough and that the decision of the New South Wales Government to grant a  3VA  hour working week to the power workers in New South Wales was some unique precedent that did not exist in the rest of Australia. What absolute nonsense! What absolute rubbish! A shorter working week applies in many institutions throughout this country, none more, as I said previously, than where this Government is the employer. 
If the Minister for Industrial Relations were in private employment he would be known as the personnel officer. He would be the personnel officer for more people working fewer than 40 hours than any other man in this country. He can give his employees a shorter working week, employees of the Commonwealth can have a shorter working week, but when Neville Wran in New South Wales says that the 54 per cent of the power workers in New South Wales who are working a 40-hour week should join the other 46 per cent, mainly the white collar workers who are working 37V4 hours a week, this Government says that he cannot do it. The Government has said that it will cut off funds to New South Wales. If it does so the voters of New South Wales will wipe the floor with it. 
The standard working week in Australian Government employment could be said to be 36% hours. The vast majority of employees who work for the Australian Government work a standard week of 36% hours. During the past few years there has been a trend for those wages employees, in particular those who worked a 40-hour week, to have their standard working week reduced to 36% hours. As an indication of this, workers in the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Postal Commission, the Overseas Telecommunication Commission, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and almost half the staff of the Reserve Bank of Australia have had their hours reduced from 40 to 36%. These employees should be added to all other public servants. This, in essence, represents a movement in the last few years of no fewer than 60,000 employees working directly for the Commonwealth Government or for statutory authorities. 
The position with respect to the electricity generated industry is that the majority of employees work fewer than 40 hours per week although there is a dichotomy between wages employees and professional staff which the New South Wales Government has attempted to remove. In the State Electricity Commission of Victoria all clerical, administrative, engineering and technical staff work fewer than 40 hours a week. In the State Energy Commission of Western Australia engineers, chemists, draftsmen, technical officers and assistants and administrative and clerical officers work fewer than 40 hours a week. In the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania the professional and clerical staff and the majority of technical staff work fewer than 40 hours a week. In the Electricity Trust of South Australia all employees work fewer than 40 hours a week. They work a 37W hour week. In the northern electric authority and regional electricity boards of Queensland the professional, administrative and clerical staff work fewer than 40 hours a week. Employees of the Sydney County Council work fewer than 40 hours a week. All clerical and administrative staff of the electricity councils of New South Wales work fewer than 40 hours a week. 
I re-emphasise and reiterate that there has been gross discrimination in many of these areas between the white collar workers and the blue collar workers. For decades white collar workers in Telecom have worked fewer than 40 hours a week. But when Telecom moved to reduce the working hours of its blue collar workers this Government spoke as though the heavens would fall on the Parliament. It is an estimate of the unions involved in the electricity industry that over 75 per cent of all employees who work in that industry throughout Australia work fewer than 40 hours a week. There are a number of areas in the community in which the standard is less than 40 hours a week. All employees under all awards and agreements in the oil industry are entitled to a nine day fortnight. Nearly all State instrumentalities in Victoria and in most other States provide for work between 35 and 3716 hours per week. The stevedoring and waterside industry, the coal mining industry, the insurance and finance industry and the health and research industry provide for a working week of fewer than 40 hours. From a list tendered in the proceedings before the Conciliation and Arbitration 
Commission in the 1975 State Electricity Commission of Victoria case over 80 major federal awards provided for standards of fewer than 40 hours to all those employees working between 38 and 40 hours per week. 
I now refer to productivity. The Electricity Commission of New South Wales has demonstrated a very high rate of productivity growth. For example, the evidence tendered in the SEC case in Victoria had as its source the fact that the electricity supply in Australia indicated a productivity growth of over 8 per cent per annum during the 1960s and early 1970s. The average annual rate of growth of productivity over the period 1954 to 1974 was 6.7 per cent. The Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Commission accepted these decisions with respect to Telecom, Australia Post, the OTC and the CSL as being within the guidelines of the Commission. This is an enormously important point of which the Government ought to be cognisant. Unless it wants to change the terms of reference of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or try to interfere with the legislation setting up an authority which all sides of industrial relations recognise, it should recognise what the Commission has to say about the shorter working week. The Commission has said not once but on a number of occasions that workers in this country are entitled to the benefits of increased productivity, whether in wages or in a shorter working week. If the Government says that they cannot have a shorter working week, indexation will be thrown out of the window. If the Government says that the workers of this country can increase productivity but cannot share in the benefits there will be no increased productivity. The work force will be totally against all the ideas being put forward about the new technology. 
As I said, there has been gross discrimination by the authorities against blue collar workers. At present 5,450 employees are working a 40-hour week in the New South Wales Electricity Commission. They represent 65 per cent of the current work force in the Commission. Of the remainder, 2,871 work a 35-hour week. They represent 34 per cent of the Commission's work force. Also 4.3 per cent of the Commission's employees work a 37V4-hour week. Following lengthy and detailed investigations by the parties, agreements have been reached to introduce new working procedures and new shift procedures which will have the effect of increasing productivity in the industry. Implementation of the various shift arrangements will enable the output of high productivity power stations to be increased. These increases will be matched by reductions in generation at older and less economic power stations. The effect of these productivity improvements will ensure that the reduction in hours will be matched by these cost saving methods and will not result in any additional costs being incurred by the Electricity Commission by agreeing to reduce hours. 
Honourable members should remember that there will be no increase in costs to consumers in New South Wales by this action. I draw attention to the fact that when the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission consisting of  Deputy  Presidents Isaac and Sharp and Commissioner Cohen gave its decision to award a shorter working week for Telecom employees, one of the conditions was that Telecom had to report back to the Commission within a year to show whether there had been any increase in costs as a result of the reduced working week for 25,000 of its employees. In April 1977 Telecom reported back to the Commission.  Deputy President  Isaac was satisfied that no increased costs to consumers had resulted from the lowering of working hours for the employees of Telecom. So much for the humbug with which this Government carries on. 
The procedures involved in the examination of the productivity of the industry follow the same lines as were adopted by the parties representing Telecom and the Postal Commission in their case for a reduction of hours. Employees and management came together at all levels of the industry to examine work methods and practices with a view to increasing productivity.. The decision by the court in the case of Telecom was made in March 1976, nearly a year after the introduction of wage indexation. In fact, the Federal Government argued that to grant reduced hours would be 'economically expensive and would jeopardise the indexation package'. That extreme view of the Federal Government led by this man, Malcolm Fraser, was rejected by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission found that the Federal Government was wrong in its prediction- and that was three years ago. History has proved the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission right and the Federal Government wrong. 
As I have already said, in September 1977, the Commission was required to decide whether a reduction of hours from 40 to 36% a week by consent for other employees of the Postal Commission breached the indexation guidelines. The Commission said: 
Nothing was put to us which could lead us to the opinion that the orders sought in the applications would not be in the possible interest or would conflict with the principles including the indexation principles, followed by the Commission. 
A shorter working week in which it could be proved that there was no additional cost to consumers is within the guidelines of the most senior industrial tribunal of this country, and this Government challenges the proper workings of that industrial tribunal. 
The criticism by the Federal Government and its followers in New South Wales of the decision to reduce conditionally the hours of work of employees in the Electricity Commission has been ill-advised, inconsistent and fallacious. Arrangements are being entered into under which Electricity Commission employees will have their hours reduced in return for extension of shift work which will be of beneficial effect to the nation and the community generally by ensuring continuity of electricity supplies without any increase in cost of electricity generation. The new arrangements will provide for maintenance work to be performed on a shift work basis for the first time in the Electricity Commission's modern power stations. For a generation there has been an absolute refusal by maintenance workers to perform this work on a regular shift work basis. There has been some short term shift work, but this has been irregular and unsatisfactory. Whilst the present agreement is that shift work be confined to volunteers, the Commission's right to recruit new staff, specifically on the basis of the requirement to work shift work, has been accepted. The benefit of the performance of maintenance on a shift work basis is that it will slash the time in which generating units are out of service. In time this will save costs when the larger, more modern and more efficient units are able to be repaired or overhauled in the short term and brought back into service. 
Honourable members will notice that no one from the Government side, not the Minister for Industrial Relations or the Treasurer, makes any mention of the refinements of the arguments which have been taking place in New South Wales over a number of years. It is just a question of: Bash the people of New South Wales because some decision has been made to bring some of the employees- in fact 5,000 of theminto line with tens of thousands of people who work for this Government. Is it not about time that we stopped discriminating against the blue collar worker who, because of his work, increases the productivity of his industry? Is it not about time that we recognised his right as well as the rights of white collar workers who have had a reduced working week for decades? This Government ought to recognise that fact but it sees some political advantage in fighting it and it continues to do so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I second the motion. This Government has set an appallingly low standard of behaviour. Even the behaviour of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  will only be an equal to the behaviour of this Government in a couple of instances which have been revealed in the last three or four days. It took a Senate committee to reveal that $10m was being taken out of the Treasurer's advance account to buy a VIP aircraft. No decision was made and no statement was made to the Parliament. It took an exposure in South Africa to tell us that one of the Government Ministers had been a guest of the information office of South Africa for the purpose of telling the people of South Africa that Ministers and politicians in this country supported its terrible regime of apartheid. Let me read to the House the standards which  Mr Fraser  said he would set when we were in government. I quote from page 3607 of  Hansard  of 9 July 1 975: 
Ten per cent or even SO per cent of the truth is as good a way of misleading this Parliament and the Australian people as a downright lie. 
No one in this Parliament believes that the Minister for National Development has not been guilty to a degree of having misled this House. But such is the corruption and deception of this Government in almost every field of its administration that this Minister's action will go unnoticed in the Government. It will go unnoticed by the very standard it has set. 
What an issue we have before us. Today we debate what appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has told the Parliament, the matter goes far deeper than that. What happened on 13 February in the meeting between the Minister and the oil companies? What did the Minister tell the oil companies that allowed three of the major companies the next day, 14 February, to eradicate any discounting in petrol pricing in this country? What decision did the Minister express to those oil companies that allowed those oil companies to sell their fuel at an additional profit to them of $150m per annum? Is this Government governing on behalf of the oil companies or is it governing on behalf of the Australian people? Last year, in the Budget, the Government said: 'We will have to go to world parity prices. We have to have more money for exploration in this country. It is a decision of the greatest national consequence that we must abide by world parity prices for our fuel. The Australian people will have to put up with it because we need more money for exploration. ' 
This Government is handing out millions of dollars without any justification at all to some of the largest companies in the world- not just in Australia but in the world. It is the greatest rip-off that this country has ever seen. That is so not merely because of the deceit which this Minister brings to the Parliament. His deceit is exceeded only by his incompetence, because on either level he fails this Parliament and he fails the people. The Minister for National Development- we have lost the word honourable today- told the Australian people in his Press statement of 13 February, after he met the oil companies in Canberra which must have been a nice sleazy meeting, that after discussions with oil industry representatives he was satisfied that there were no grounds for concern about the immediate outlook for the supply of petroleum products to the Australian market. Let me remind honourable members that the next day three of the largest oil companies in this country eradicated discounting. 
Why did that happen? Why does the Minister not tell the Parliament why those oil companies took the decision the next day, that is 24 hours after he met with them? Why does the Minister not produce all the documents relating to the price of oil in this country including the now famous telex which has been referred to in today's newspaper? Why are they not given to this Parliament? Why are they hidden away in the Minister's office? All honorable members on the Government side of the Parliament must understand the frustration being met by the Australian motorist and by the Australian people as oil prices continually go up and up. The Government says that this is happening at the behest of greater exploration. It is not at the behest of greater exploration at all. It is at the behest of greater super-profits by the oil companies so that they can contribute next year to the coffers of the Liberal-National Country parties so that they can remain in office. 
If I were running an oil company I would not say: 'Here is $10,000 for you for the elections in 1 980 '. I would say: 'Go and spend what you like. I will underwrite your campaign because you are so good to us. I will underwrite your campaign completely.' If there is no dishonesty in the situation that campaign funds come from oil companies to the Government, and if there is nothing to hide, then why does the Government not adopt some reform in that field. I will tell the Government what will happen in 1980. All Government members know it. Although their greasy fingers might not touch it, it will be the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the people who sit on the front bench, who will go to the uranium companies and to the oil companies and say: 'Look, we cannot give you decent government. We are not asking you to support us because we can give you decent government. We are asking you to support us because we will give you greater profits. We will give you greater access to the resources of this country which a Labor Government, acting in the interests of the Australian people, will never give you. ' 
That is the reason the Government will give. That is the reason why the Minister for National Development ought to be dismissed. But why should he have to go when that is the standard of this Government? How many Ministers have been found guilty of some charge against them because of their behaviour? But some people argue that this is a very good government. They say that no government in the history of Australia has had so many Ministers found not guilty. But no government in Australia has had so many Ministers charged with bad behaviour, with misdemeanours, with trying to bribe candidates and with trying to have some influence on electoral commissioners. Of course, the Minister has been up to this. He cannot explain his behaviour or explain the behaviour of the Government today. 
At Question Time when the censure motion was moved the Government hoped the matter could be quietened. All the evidence was there. Why did the Government not take the censure motion on board at Question Time. No, something else had to happen and what happened? The Minister was totally exposed this evening when the reporter who wrote the story substantiated it and when another journalist substantiated her story. Everybody in Australia now knows that last night this Minister told the journalist: 'It is a good story'. So what does he do today? He gives a Dorothy Dix question to one of his back bench members, the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter),  and we all know what back bench members have to do for Ministers. They have to do everything except something really ugly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Barker will resume his seat. That is not a point of order. The honourable member will have the right, at a later stage in the debate, to make a personal explanation if he so desires. 
-It does not matter whether the honourable member for Barker asked the question because of his own supreme intelligence or whether in fact the messenger from the Minister for National Development brought the question around to him. Irrespective of either of those two events taking place the Minister was asked a question about the story. Now the Minister has some reservations about what he said at Question Time. Let me quote him to see whether anybody else in the Parliament misunderstood what the Minister said at Question Time in answer to the honourable member for Barker as to the report in this morning's  Australian Financial Review.  He stated: . . . let me say this about that report: In short, it is bunkum. 
Later on he stated: 
Just let me repeat that the report in this morning's  Australian Financial Review is  entirely without foundation. 
What is the Minister saying tonight on the program  PM1  He has had a change of mind. He tells us: 
Just let me finish for a moment. The point that I was making to  Mrs Hoare  - 

 Ms Hoare I expect he meant; was that there was no attack on her article. What I was attacking was both the headline and the editorial . . . 
Now would honourable members not have thought that a sophisticated Minister like the Minister for National Development would know the difference between calling a story bunkum and refuting the headlines. Would they not have thought that a sophisticated Minister like the Minister for National Development who bungles along in this Parliament- as he did last week and as he is doing this week- would know the difference between the descriptions he gives to the story. But he did not come in, as he should have today, and say: 'Well look, I have been partly found out but everything is above board. Here is all the correspondence and telexes between the oil companies and myself. I want the Parliament and the people of Australia to know that they are being represented by a decent, honest Government'. Honourable members may ask why he did not. It is because he cannot. We are being represented by a rotten, corrupt Government that thinks more about the telexes it receives from the oil companies than it does about those it receives from millions of Australian voters. 
-For many months now the Government has tried to conceal, to trivialise and to cover up, what almost every Australian- including, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  well knows, a good number of those sitting behind him in this House today- knows is, at this dme, a national scandal. Indeed, it might be so described at any time. This is the purchase, for the Prime Minister's personal use, of two luxury Boeing 707 aircraft. Again I stress that they are for the Prime Minister's personal use. They are for the use of the man who promised Australia he would not be a tourist Prime Minister. This is yet another promise from this Prime Minister rendered inoperative within weeks of its utterance. This issue cannot be trivialised and, as the Prime Minister is learning today, it cannot be covered up, however hard he and his hapless Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  might try. We on this side of the House consider it an important issue, not only in its own right, but also for its reflection on the whole style of Fraser Government. The purchase of these luxury planes for  Mr Malcolm  Frasermake no mistake, they are bought for him and nobody else because it was his decision not, as he would have us believe, a decision made by an independent security inquiry- epitomises the two characteristics which, after three years, have become outstanding of the Fraser Government. These characteristics epitomise both the Fraser Government's style and its quality. To my shame, I have to say that these Fraser characteristics are deceit and self-indulgence. No man occupying the high office that  Mr Fraser  occupies today - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Port Adelaide will refer to the Prime Minister as such in a direct reference. 
No man occupying the high office that the Prime Minister occupies today has given Australians a more generous measure of both than the man who occupies that position. From the time he crawled into that chair as Prime Minister, he has demonstrated both overtly, and wherever possible covertly, these two characteristics. They have become not only his standards but also the standards of his Government. Both, needless to say, are demonstrated yet again in the aircraft scandal. The Prime Minister talks a lot about the obligations of the workers, their rights and their conditions. In the latter two cases he talks more about what they should not have rather than what they should have. 
We knew little of the Prime Minister's private lifestyle before he assumed his present office. But in the last three years we have learned much, not I need hardly add, with any assistance from the Prime Minister himself. It was not the Prime Minister who revealed the fact that while life for the people was not meant to be easy, he could afford to spend $9,000 on an imported dinner set for the Lodge, replacing a set which had been good enough for Whitlam, Gorton, McMahon, Holt and even Menzies. It was the Press, again it was not the Prime Minister, who told us about his lavish refurnishing of the Lodge at a time of economic hardship, and of his wife's connection with the firm that carried it out. This was another exposure which sent the Prime Minister whimpering to the Flinders Street boardroom. The Prime Minister was strangely reluctant to tell us about the loans his wife's company was able to obtain in extraordinary circumstances from the Victorian Government. He had very little to say about the $160,000 it cost the Australian taxpayer for him to stopover to have dinner with his sister in Rome on one of the junkets overseas. The Prime Minister again had nothing to do with the exposure of the fact that he was buying not one but two custom built, bullet proof cars for his personal use on his occasional visits to Melbourne. All these factors demonstrate in the Prime Minister qualities about which I spoke earlier- deceit and self-indulgence. The issue which we are debating today similarly demonstrates both. Not for the first time, the Prime Minister has been successful in involving his subordinates in such an exercise. 
Hardly surprising it was not the Prime Minister who announced the proposal to purchase these aircraft. It was the Press. It was not the Prime Minister who told us what they would ultimately cost. It was the Press. Indeed, had we believed the Prime Minister and his office from the start, the nation might have believed that the aircraft were costing a mere pittance- a mere $14m. It is not a big figure when one examines the other areas in which the Prime Minister has indulged himself over the past three years. On the one hand, he has created economic hardship for millions. On the other hand he has lived a personal life of unparalleled luxury at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. It might be fanenough for a Prime Minister to live in this way, but if it is it is fair enough also for him not to conceal it. 
The desperate measures to which the Prime Minister stooped in this scandal and in other scandals to conceal from taxpayers just how generous they are being in providing for his personal comfort would indicate to any observer, no matter from what side of the House he views it, that even the Prime Minister does not consider it is fair enough. The Prime Minister has still not told the House the cost of the luxury we are debating today. When his office provided a figure of $ 14m, that did not include the cost of spares; that did not include the cost of refitting; that did not include the cost of specialised equipment with which both aircraft are being provided. Somehow the office overlooked the fact that every engine, plus four spares, is to have expended on it $ Item- a total of $ 18m in all- to reduce noise levels so that the aircraft can be used for the purpose for which they are designed, and that is the Prime Minister's touring abroad. 
His office did not mention the fact that the taxi-ways at the Canberra airport have to be reinforced- at a figure still unknown- so that the aircraft can be conveniently on tap at the Prime Minister's home base. Frantic efforts were made by the Prime Minister and his staff to conceal these facts from the Australian public, but even the Services, not noted as radicals, found this last exercise in self-indulgence, not to mention deceit, a little rich. It is not hard to find in the Royal 
Australian Air Force now very senior officers who estimate the total cost of this extravagance at above $37m. Believe me, the Prime Minister has been in no rush to deny this figure and if he does or he has some lackey to do it on his behalf today, I would ask the House to check the figures carefully. Deceit with this man is the name of the game, particularly where his own comfort is concerned. 
The Prime Minister has a very special talent with his Ministers. Perhaps he has promised eventually to look after them as extravagantly as he looks after himself. Somehow the prefect can always find in the ministerial class some lackey who will go in to bat for him - 
Order! I feel that that expression is unparliamentary and I call on the honourable member to withdraw. 
-. . . someone who will act the part of a stooge - 
-by leave-The role of the professionally qualified migrants who have come to this country is both acknowledged and appreciated; but, as the Committee itself on Overseas Professional Qualifications in its 10th report tabled today by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  points out, many matters have changed rather radically since the Committee was established in 1969. The Committee on page 3 of its report stated: 
The Committee has noted the recent downturn in the numbers of settlers coming to Australia: In 1968-69, 175,000 settlers arrived while in 1978-79 the figure was 73,000. 
There is no doubt that not only, as we have pointed out in this Parliament previously, are the unskilled and semi-skilled people bound up in the enormous crisis and problem of unemployment, but also we have the professional people involved in it here as well as in many other countries. We have now reached the end of the search for doctors to come to this country, the desired level having been reached, but no doubt this stage will also be reached in many other professions. Much work is being done in Australia based on the necessity or the enthusiasm which existed in 1969. Should it continue? The Flinders University in a special article on professional migration in its last  Australian Bulletin of Labour  dated March 1979 pointed out:  . . that while teachers are very predominantly Australian-bom, nearly a third of professional scientists and engineers in Australia are migrants. Indeed, Australia is more dependent on migration for her engineers and scientists than for any other professional group. 
It may be that some of these past attitudes are now being questioned in Australia because from them is derived not only the technology in Australian industry but also the professional people who work in industry. The Flinders University group which did this exercise also pointed out: 
Between 1961 and 1968 some 40 per cent of academic staff appointed to Australian universities were from overseas. In 1972, a survey of 748 research managers, scientists and engineers with Ph.D. degrees and employed in research by government and industry through Australia revealed that no less than 5 1 per cent had gained their Ph.D degree overseas. 
The group also pointed out that this is not all one-way traffic and that many of the people doing their training at Australian universities head overseas afterwards. So we do face a different problem in 1979 from that which we faced in 1969, as pointed out in the report. This is a matter of which the Parliament ought to be cognisant. 
In the book  Unemployment  by Keith Windschuttle, a book which I consider to be a very major contribution on the unemployment problem, at page 241 Windschuttle pointed out the graduate unemployment that existed in Australia in 1977. It is quite alarming, and perhaps it is something to which the Government and the Committee, both of which are responsible for facilitating the entry of professional people into Australia, ought to look because there is very high unemployment, sometimes even higher than the national average, among professional groups in this country. I seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table from the 1971 Census showing the occupation by birthplace of employed population in 1971, a table from the 1966 Census showing professional occupations by birthplace as at 1966, and a table from the Windschuttle book relating to graduate unemployment in 1977. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197904034_16_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197904034_17_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197904034_17_2.jpg"></graphic>

-by leave-On behalf of the Opposition, we welcome this move by the Government. I do not think that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  is correct in saying that the impact of the analysis to be done by the Australian Electoral Office could be compared with the assessments which are made from time to time by politicians, academics, party workers, journalists and others because we do have a very special relationship between this Parliament, the Australian Electoral Office, and the distribution commissioners. One would hope that we can avoid any charge of improper conduct at the next redistribution, which will be held some time after 1984. 
I think the analyses of what might occur following redistributions are of enormous importance. Whilst it is suggested that the Distribution Commissioners might use them, I feel sure they will use them. Only at redistribution time do members of this Parliament think of themselves as individuals. Between redistributions we are very much a part of our own parties. In the larger States especially, as one could see from the massive change that took place in the proposed division of Lowe in the New South Wales redistribution, this sort of analysis is of importance to us. It throws up what every individual who serves in this Parliament and what all political parties should be happy to have above board. 
I believe that the added responsibility of the Electoral Office to make public analyses which are prepared by it, and which perhaps will add something to the debate that may take place, will be of benefit not only to those of us who participate in the Parliament but also to the public and community generally. 
-The statement presented by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on behalf of the Government is both contemptible and laughable. The exercise being conducted by the Federal Government is an exercise in bastardry on behalf of the Victorian Government in order that it may look a little better, in order that it may be able to submerge some of the murky business, including the land deals, in which it has been mixed up over the past year or so and in order that the Victorian Liberal Government can maintain its position as the Government of that State. From the evidence which is available to the public, there is absolutely no doubt that the Victorian Government is the prime mover in this dispute. In his history of the dispute, including the matter of the Transport Workers Union, the Minister has not given one piece of evidence why the Government would tend to make such threats. For instance, the Minister did not tell the Parliament the relationship with everybody who drives a truck in this country. The Minister did not take opportunity to tell non members that the Full Bench of the Commonwealth and Arbitration Commission handed down its $8 judgment in December of 1978. He did not tell the Parliament that over 70 per cent of people covered by the awards of the Transport Workers Union throughout this country have now received the $8. 
It is an act by this Government on behalf of the Victorian Government in the hope that ultimately there will be industrial confrontation which can perhaps become the major issue leading up to the Victorian elections on 5 May. The meeting of Sunday last between the parties involved in this dispute was held in  Mr Hamer  's office. The Federal Minister for Industrial Relations was called to  Mr Hamer's  office so that this meeting could be conducted. It is obvious that  Mr Hamer  wants something to cover up all the shoddy deals in which his Government has been involved. He is anxious to get something to submerge the way in which the Labor Party is campaigning in that State and the way in which the Victorian people have given notice at the byelections that they are going to change the Government. It is not just the neck of Dick Hamer about which Malcolm Fraser is concerned because if Dick Hamer becomes the Leader of the Opposition after 5 May many of the reasons for the defeat of his Government will he at the door of the paltry efforts of this Government to attain proper economic management. 
Let us look at what has happened since Sunday, in defiance of the proper conduct of industrial relations in this country. Every party associated with the dispute knew on Sunday that this morning there would be a hook-up of the Transport Workers Union executive to decide on a recommendation to the transport workers on Wednesday. This move by the Government is in defiance of what it now recognises as the proper channels for conducting industrial relations. The threat to continue with the deregistration of the Transport Workers Union, a mechanism that has proved absolutely useless in the past, is an attempt to try to grasp something out of tomorrow's decision. If the workers, in defiance of tonight's challenge by the Government, say that they are not going back to work, irrespective of the recommendation from the executive, whatever it may be, then the Government will say: 'In we go with the hammer. Dick Hamer, we have succeeded on your behalf. We have given you the issue on which you might survive'. On the other hand, if the executive in their hook-up this morning decided to recommend to the workers that they go back to work, the Government would gloat and say: 'Our threat worked. They have gone back to work under the threat of deregistration'. What a stupid, naive, infantile action for any sophisticated government to take in the area of industrial relations in the midst of negotiations within the union movement. 
As I have said, following the meeting with Hamer on Sunday,  Mr Hawke  was contacted for the first time by this Government and his assistance was sought. He was not contacted again until the Government finally made its decision last night.  Mr Hawke  was then left without any weapon with which to work. No one on the other side of the chamber would dare say that Hawke, as the chief negotiator of the trade union movement in this country for the past decade, has not been perhaps the most skilled negotiator this country has ever had. Yet what was he left to fly with? After trying all day to contact the Minister, he was told that the action had been set in train, that nothing could be done, that the workers must go back or the union would be deregistered. As I have said, it is a farce, and it has been a farce from the start. 
The Minister talked about how many fewer strikes there have been under the LiberalNational Country Party Government than there were under the Labor Government. He beat his chest about the fact that perhaps industrial relations were better, which by itself is arguable, and then took this action in the midst of mechanism being used by the union which might mean that the men would go back to work tomorrow. This action has been taken in relation to the Victorian elections in the hope that the Government can do something, that it can take some action to inflame the industrial relations arena- the hotbed the Government has always tried to use throughout its history- in order to ensure that the Victorian voters look only at that issue between now and 5 May and forget about the land scandals and the murky dealings of the Victorian Government. If there had been a Labor government in Victoria last year the media would have demanded its dismissal when those revelations were made. If a Labor government had been caught up in all those murky land deals in Victoria everybody would have said that it should resign. Now, when the opportunity is being given to the Victorian electors to bring down the Hamer Government on 5 May, the Federal Government is acting in cahoots with it to use the Transport Workers Union dispute to try to play down some of the other issues. 
Let me reiterate: Over 70 per cent of the people covered by the awards for which the Transport Workers Union has constitutional coverage already have the $8. That decision was made four months ago by the Full Bench. There is a SO-year-old historical link between all those who drive trucks in Australia. Does anyone think that, despite the words that may have been used by the Commission, the union is going to say that the flow-on is not automatic? Does anyone think that transport workers, wherever they are, including the people who are asked to drive us around Canberra, are going to say: 'Our colleagues in some other industries have got it. We do not really expect to have it '. They have always had it. That nexus has existed for 50 years and it will continue to exist, despite the protestations of this Government. 
Let us look at the efforts of this Government in terms of industrial relations in this country. Nothing stands out more clearly than the intimidation by this Government of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. On every occasion on which a national wage decision has been handed down the Commission has been abused in this Parliament by the Government. It has been abused behind closed doors. At Press conferences, where the members of the Commission cannot respond, they have been called economic pygmies. The pressure on the Commission has come from this Government. One of the features of industrial relations at the moment is that for a while there was general acceptance that the national wage hearings would be conducted every six months- twice yearly instead of four times yearly- because it was recognised by the union movement as well as by the employers and by the bench that perhaps there could be sixmonthly hearings if inflation was going to fall. But now the Government is frantic because inflation is not falling, it is again on the way up, and the unions are going to be demanding threemonthly hearings, and quite rightly. The twiceyearly indexation of pensions was discontinued because inflation was falling. The Government should tell the pensioners, who should have received their increase yesterday, that with inflation on the way up they have to live for another six months without an increase in pension. They are going to be far worse off than was first anticipated. Those are some of the ways in which this Government deals with industrial relations. 
Who will ever forget the ravings of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the Telecom dispute when he came in here and told us that if the men did not go back to work they would not be paid? He said that they could not win the dispute and it was fruitless for them to continue. What happened when the parties met before Justice Gaudron? Those people who had been stood down but had taken no action in the dispute were paid all lost wages. The union was told that in future it would be consulted by Telecom management on any technological changes, and there was a guarantee that no one would lose his job. Let us look at the way in which the dispute was resolved and compare it with the ravings of Malcolm Fraser, who again tried to use this Parliament-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will refer to the Prime Minister by his correct title. 
-The Prime Minister is trying to use this Parliament, to use the powers of the Government, to use the Full Bench, to use the employers, to inflame the arena of industrial relations. Look at this statement. For God's sake, what a joke the Government makes of Australia. The Minister stated: 
However, the Government will fully back the present resolve of the paint manufacturing industry to oppose the wage claims. It will ensure that this industry and other industries and their employees are not placed in jeopardy by any continuation of the dispute. 
I want to emphasise the final two lines: 
Accordingly, consideration will be given to importation of paint free of duty under by-law, in order to make up any shortfall in production. 
I could name many retailers who hope that the Government goes ahead with that. They are just sitting there hoping that legislation will be introduced so that every time someone in the manufacturing industry goes on strike the commodity can be brought in under by-law. What a fool the Government makes of Australia. The Minister for Special Trade Representations will go to a conference of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and say: 'I cannot tell you whether there is any duty on paint. I will ring up and see whether there is an industrial dispute in the paint industry. When we have an industrial dispute in the paint industry there is no tariff and we bring the paint in under by-law '. 
What a fool the Government makes of Australia. What a fool it makes of itself by putting forward such propositions. There is no government in our style of economy, in our style of democracy, that can completely eradicate industrial disputes. The Government has said that employers, State governments, the Federal Government and the Commission should not continue negotiations if the union or the work force concerned is taking strike action, is imposing overtime bans, or is involved in any restriction on work. Honourable members should ask the members of the work force why they are taking such action. If some people opposite would be good enough next Friday morning when they are going to the airport to ask the driver why he is sacrificing a week's wages, he could explain in very simple terms that he believes he is entitled to it. In most other cases, members of the work force will explain that they believe they cannot get anything unless they take some sort of action. 
Just a few weeks ago the shearers took action in all the major States, with the exception of Queensland, in the lead up to the hearing of their dispute. When the dispute went before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission they were granted increased wages. The Telecom people received great benefits following the dispute in which they were involved. It cannot be said that these people are wasting their time or that they make these decisions lightly. Working people cannot concede a week's wages. In fact, they live from week to week on the wages that they receive at their work place. The decisions that they make are very serious ones. It is a fruitless exercise for the Government to say in the Parliament that there will be no negotiations between parties, whether it be the employer, the State government authority, the Federal government or the Commission. Such an exercise would be like the one in which the Government involved the Parliament last week. I refer to the cutting off of funds to New South Wales because of its introduction of a 37'A-hour week. How ridiculous can the Government be? 
I thought that that matter of a 37'/4-hour week was to be the big item to be discussed at yesterday's Loan Council meeting. I thought that all the States intended to raise this matter of New South Wales granting a 37'A-hour week to power workers. But this morning's newspapers tell us that that matter took up three minutes of discussion. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last week once again used the Parliament to inflame industrial relations. They intend to continue trying to do that in order to submerge all the really important issues. The Parliament spent two days discussing the abortion issue; there were eight speakers on the matter of the granting of a 37%-hour week; there are to be six speakers on the statement just brought down by the Minister for Industrial Relations. Give us 10 speakers on unemployment; give us 10 speakers on social services and pensions; give us 10 speakers on Aboriginal affairs; give us 10 speakers on any issue in relation to which this Government can be exposed. But that is not the way in which the Government intends that this Parliament should operate. It intends to operate on the basis of the tradition of conservative-thinking people, and that is putting up issues which will divide the community and from which perhaps it can get some sort of political gain. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to  8  p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
1 ) Which members of the Government were principally responsible for promoting Harry M. Miller to highly paid Government positions on the Qantas Board, the Meat and Livestock Board and as organiser of Australia's bi-cemenary celebrations. 
Can he say whether this same person (a) was connected with the recent computicket crash, (b) is a promoter of the Country Party and (c) was an organiser of  Sir John  Kerr's Vice Regal testimonial. 
Will he produce the evidence from which the Government determined  Mr Miller  was especially suited to occupy Government posts. 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to his Press statement of 24 January this year wherein he announced the creation of 1,000 training and work experience opportunities in the Public Service for a period of 17 weeks. I ask the Minister How many young people have now been employed under this scheme and in what work have they been trained? 
-by leave-The Opposition recognises the enormous importance of the stevedoring industry in Australia and notes with satisfaction the report of the Working Party. Unfortunately, I have not been able to speak to anybody who has been involved in the drawing up of the report but one must say at the outset that the report shows advances made in industrial relations in the stevedoring industry which would be welcomed by everybody in Australia. However, there are some aspects of the report on which comments should be made. Firstly, of course, the ultimate aim of the improved industrial relations which are sought by the parties to the stevedoring industry is to see, as the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  says in his statement, the better utilisation of the labour force. 
It is true, of course, that since 1975 we have seen thousands of waterside workers leave the industry. They have left the industry because sufficient redundancy payments were made available to them. I think the way in which those redundancy payments have been made available in the stevedoring industry is a lesson for people in other industries who might have in mind doing the same sort of thing. A great deal of the breakdown currently occurring in industrial relations in this country with the advent of all the new technologies is being caused by the fact that we still have available to employers some very mediaeval systems by which to dismiss employees. It is something that the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia does not tolerate. The only means by which the Government and the employees connected with the stevedoring industry have been able to get the work force down to the level at which it stands today is by agreeing to see that those who have retired before their time were granted a sufficient redundancy payment. It is something for which the Waterside Workers Federation fought very hard. 
The impact of the reduction in the work force goes way beyond the stevedoring industry. The economies of port areas such as my own area of Port Adelaide are affected immensely when the size of the labour force is reduced. In my own area of Port Adelaide it dropped from something like 2,000 a few years ago to 500 today. There have been instances this year of more than 500 waterside workers being required. They have been made available under the new arrangements which are now operating on the wharves. Nonetheless, I am pleased with the way in which this Working Party has gone about its work. 
The Minister made some reference to the marked increase in lost man hours. In its report the Working Party went into greater detail as to why this occurred. I make some examination of pages 10 and 1 1 of that report. Under the heading 'Industrial Relations Aspects' the Working Party analysed this matter in the stevedoring industry. It stated in its report: 
In examining overall industrial relations aspects, the Working Party has had before it figures for total manhours lost through disputes in the period. These figures indicate that in this period, i.e. the 12 months ended 30 November 1 978, a total of 562,666 manhours have been lost as a result of stoppages by waterside workers representing 5.36 per cent of manhours worked. - 
The Working Party went on then to explain what had occurred. It stated: 
In the period under review the major loss of manhours resulted from: 
A dispute which arose from action by another union, - 
In this case it was the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union- related to the shipment of live sheep. Picketing of wharves was followed by the use in Western Australia of farmers instead of waterside workers to load vessels. This led to a national stoppage by waterside workers in protest against the use of non-union labour - 
The number of man hours lost in this dispute was 100,042. The second instance that the Working Party lists is as follows: disputes arising from the national negotiation of new wage rates and conditions for the 1978 General Industry Agreement and awards for waterside workers referred to . . . 
That reference is in a later part of the report. It states that in that case 147,826 man hours were lost. The third instance- given is of interest also because of the Minister's reference to the extension of the conciliation system to unions other than those unions directly involved in the stevedoring industry where some disputes have arisen. The Working Party went on to refer to the following: an industry wide dispute which was a side product of a dispute of five weeks' duration between the ETU and AMW &amp; SU and container terminal operators in Melbourne. That dispute led to an application of stand-down procedures against waterside workers which, in turn, lead to a national stoppage in September 1978 . . . 
The man hours lost as a result of this stoppage amounted to 191,824. So in spite of the Minister's reference to the fact that there has been a marked increase in man hours lost, the Working Party gave some explanation for it. In paragraph 7 on page 1 1 of its report it stated: 
It is important to point out that the three disputes referred to in paragraph 4 account for a total of some 440,000 man hours or 78 per cent of all man hours lost by dispute during the period under review. These were not the type of industrial relations problems which it could be expected would be materially assisted by the new industrial relations provisions now under review. As previously indicated, such arrangements were designed mainly for improvements at job and port level. 
The Working Party does not see these as being recurring instances of industrial disputes. As such, if one leaves aside the two major disputes, apart from the general award negotiations, one could not say that there has been a marked increase in the man hours lost in the stevedoring industry. Although there has been some disputation and argument between the Waterside Workers Federation and other unions which come into contact with it in relation to work that is done in or around the stevedoring industry, the extension of the conciliation procedures as set up by  Mr Justice  Robinson may be of some assistance. The Minister would be aware, as the Parliament should be aware, that a number of unions have, on occasions, sat down to try to sort out whether, in fact, amalgamation may overcome these problems. One hopes that in the foreseeable future arrangements can be made between the unions which will avoid the sorts of disputes which have occurred in the past and which have lead to a great deal of disorder in industrial relations. These disputes are of no great benefit to the employees involved in them and they should be overcome by negotiation between the unions. Perhaps this direct availability of a conciliator for the ports throughout Australia could also be extended to those unions which are involved in such work. 
It is, as has been reported by  Mr Justice  Robinson, too early to say how successful this system will be. We probably will have to wait a little longer to grasp the impact and effect of the conciliation system now being used throughout the stevedoring industry. In the material that is contained in the report of the working party there is a strong indicator that this is the sort of system that may work not only in this industry, where we have worked for so long to improve the industrial relations, but in other industries as well. I think that the report is well worth reading by all honourable members. 

 -Mr Speaker, this again is evidence of the way in which this Government treats the Parliament with absolute contempt. Last night, when the Opposition co-operated with the establishment of the legislation committee, this Parliament was used to try to strangle debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. Tonight we have the same performance. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to the motion put forward by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  However, both sides of the House have to live with the warts of the parliamentary system in attending divisions or quorums when they are called. Up to date, the Opposition has in no way hindered the progression and introduction of the legislation committees, but there are very big differences between the legislation introduced into this House and the interest of honourable members in that legislation. I doubt very much that the Opposition would agree that in future a legislation committee should meet while an amendment to the Atomic Energy Act is being debated in the House, because obviously there is a great deal of interest in that Act and the Parliament is clearly divided as to how that Act ought to be utilised for the benefit of Australia. Legislation committees cannot succeed unless there is the complete co-operation of the Opposition. In the first place, it has agreed to the proposal that was put forward that legislation committees can meet concurrently with the House. That was not originally envisaged so far as the operation of the legislation committees was concerned. 
Everybody in the House appreciates the role that legislation committees can play in expediting parliamentary debate. The Opposition agrees that that is so, but it will not co-operate to the extent that the House plays a secondary role, nor will it co-operate to the extent of asking its members to deny themselves their right to call divisions, or to call for a quorum if they feel that is necessary, or to deny themselves any other rights which they have as members of this House. The Opposition will continue to co-operate- we do so this morning by supporting the motion before the House- but I put on record that this cooperation could come apart if the Government were to think that it can call legislation committees together at any time, irrespective of the legislation before the House. 
-by leave-I think I can say on behalf of the Opposition that we generally support the arrangements made by the Government but I suggest that perhaps some trade union bodies may be interested in displaying the flag in their buildings. I am not too sure whether they would have room alongside the flag for a photograph of  Her  Majesty but if they have they might ask for it as well. I think the Government has recognised by this decision the enormous damage which has been done to the Australian Constitution and to our relations with Britain by the outrageous action of  Sir John  Kerr in 1975. He is still bludging in England on Australian taxpayers money. This is the first notice that has been given by the Government that it recognises the damage that was done during that period. I do not think this statement should hold up the business of Parliament for too long but we should not forget the action taken by  Sir John  Kerr in November 1975 and the everlasting damage it has done in this country and to our relations with the United Kingdom. Let us hope that this sort of action will never take place in Australia again. The action which is now being taken by the Government is going only part of the way in trying to submerge what we well remember of that period. 
Nowhere is the attitude of the Government towards the wage and salary earners of this country more epitomised that in the legislation now before the House- the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979. The Bill is certainly not accurately termed when one talks about retirement. As I say, it epitomises the very evil attitude that this Government has towards not only all wage and salary earners of this country but also specifically its own employees, this Government being the largest employer in Australia. The Opposition does not for one moment concede that provision should be made to allow a government maintaining attitudes such as those held by this Government to have the power to dismiss, to sack, to retrench employees of the Commonwealth Public Service at its whim. For  Vh  years we have had displayed to us this Government's attitude towards wage and salary earners. It is coarse and unacceptable both to the Opposition and to the people involved. 
I draw attention to correspondence dated 25 November 1977 from Malcolm 'say anything at election time' Fraser to the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations outlining his attitude on a wide variety of issues concerning the future of Commonwealth public servants. On the question of employment levels and job security, he said: 
It has been our express policy to avoid retrenchments and this will continue. 
Overall staffing levels will be determined in the light of need. Although there may be both increases and decreases in particular areas of administration as work loads vary, the  intitial  process of streamlining has now been substantially completed and in general there will be stability in the service. 
When this Prime Minister goes to an election, he is capable of saying anything to anybody in the hope that he will survive as Prime Minister of this country. The Commonwealth public servants are now feeling the thrust of this Government's motivations, as did the pensioners with the Government's broken promise to index pensions twice-yearly. The Government's promise to the pensioners was broken last year; this promise to the public servants is being broken this year. 
Continually we hear spokesmen from the Government say that these measures are being initiated by the Government after consultation with peak union councils involved. This Government does not believe in consultation with peak councils. Any consultation with the peak councils concerned with the employees who will be affected by this measure would certainly have told the Government that the course it had embarked on by way of this legislation was totally unacceptable to all those people who would be affected by it. The Government cannot stand on its record after having said that the Commonwealth public servant is safe from the politicisation of the Public Service by this Government, or safe in his job, or safe from the pressures that the Government can bring to bear on employees in the Commonwealth Public Service but not on people in the private sector. In the 3V4 years that this Government has been in power, we have seen thousands of jobs closed off in the Commonwealth Public Service. We have seen a breakdown in the service that the Commonwealth is supposed to give the community. The community is now receiving the worst service, by virtue of this Government's imposition of staff ceilings, that it has received from any government of this country. This Government is on record as having broken promise after promise. 
Let me reiterate so that everybody in this country understands that Malcolm Fraser, the Prime Minister of this country, will say anything to anybody at election time. But half way through his term, as we are now, and as far away from the last election as he is from the next election, he is about to break another promise to the people who work for this Government. We have received notification after notification of the attitude of the unions that represent Commonwealth employees. Could anybody have imagined that in this country, with all the terms already being used such as 'receiving the sack', 'being retrenched', 'being put off'- all the terms that are recognised in industrial relations- this 
Government would come up with the new term management initiated retirement'. Fancy telling somebody of 30 years of age that the management has taken the initiative to retire him. He can go home to his family and say: 'I haven't been sacked; the Commonwealth just used its initiative to retire me, 35 years before I was due to retire'. 
Inherent in this Bill is a long sought after condition of employment by the Commonwealth Public Service and that is optional early retirement for some over 55 years of age. But the Government cannot even introduce that as a measure of goodwill, as a measure of understanding, as a measure of good industrial relations towards its own employees. The Government says to the Commonwealth Public Service, Here is something really decent that a government ought to do for you, something which everybody in this land supports and we are going to see a lot more of it', but it cannot do it without bringing in the good hammer. At least the Commonwealth public servants have had the common sense to say: 'We are not accepting one decent provision of this Bill because we realise that at the same time an axe is hanging over the head of everybody who works in the Commonwealth Public Service through the various clauses of this Bill which give the Government the power to ascribe any reason at all to a dismissal.' The Opposition does not accept and it will not accept that proposition. As I have said, we have been notified time and time again by the peak councils of their attitude. As late as today we have been notified by CAGEO of its attitude. The Government cannot say that it has consulted with the peak councils in relation to this issue because time and time again the peak councils have made their attitude clear. The Government is acting in complete contradiction of both what the unions have said and what the members will accept. The following resolution was carried at the CAGEO conference held last week: 
Conference notes policy determined at 1977 Conference that CAGEO vigorously and totally oppose legislation in any form which incorporates management initiated retirement provisions: 
Calls upon the Federal Executive to actively implement such policy in opposing the CE ( RR) Bill: 
Declares that the CE (RR) Bill is offensive to merit based career service employment and to CAGEO in  numerous  other respects: 
Requires that the full support of CAGEO and its affiliates including if necessary collective industrial action be given to protect the interests or affiliated members who conscientiously refuse to co-operate in the administration of any Act which results from the CE ( RR) Bill in its current substance. 
So if the Government is suggesting that it has consulted with the peak councils, representing the thousands of people who work for the Commonwealth Public Service, that consultation must have been one way traffic. The Government must have said: 'Well, you can accept this or there will be no provision for early retirement or there will be no introduction of any legislation at all'. I have said that the Commonwealth Public Service is looking at this Government on its merits. The fact is that there are approximately 15,000 fewer jobs now in the Commonwealth Public Service than there were three years ago. 
-The idiot son of the establishment in Victoria, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  says 'Hear, hear! ' because he does not believe in full employment. He wants the kids to be unemployed. He wants them to be lying around the streets, involved in all the crime that is going on. He is so stupid that he did not even read the article in today's  Age  about what is happening to the unemployed youth of this country. The people on this side of the House say that jobs have to be provided. This Government and government instrumentalities are providing 25 per cent of the work force. It has decreed that the Public Service has to be efficient and its functions carried out correctly, but that cannot be achieved the way in which this Government is attempting to achieve it. Firstly, it cannot be done by bludgeoning and using any reason for the dismissal of Commonwealth public servants. Secondly, it cannot be done through the mad, crazy staff ceilings which have been plucked out of the air. 
There is well documented evidence in the Public Service annual report, the Coombs Royal Commission and for many other speakers of substance on the matter that the ceilings initiated by this Government are not working. The only thing that is occurring as a result of ceilings in the Commonwealth Public Service is that the people of Australia are getting worse service. People who are dependent on social security are not being given the service that they require from the Government because the Government has initiated ceilings which do not allow public servants to carry out their duties to the people of this country. If the unemployed, the pensioners and all the people who are completely dependent on this Government for assistance want to be critical of the service they are getting they should not blame the public servant, they should blame the Government which is taking the action to restrict the public servant in carrying out his duties. 
This Bill demonstrates the confusion and bloody mindedness of present Government policies in relation to the administration of the Public Service. This is the second occasion on which this Bill has been before the House. Even at the second try the Government cannot get it right. Superficially, as I have said, the Bill demonstrates a worthwhile concern with the achievement of economy and efficiency in government administration. The Government has already been given a blueprint for necessary reforms in this area by the Coombs Commission- a blueprint it has chosen to ignore. The present legislation is badly drafted, inconsistent in places and illogical. Although it incorporates some improvement in conditions of employment long sought by Public Service employees, it also attempts to wield the big stick. Voluntary early retirement is the sweetener while the threat of wholesale redundancies or, to use plain English, mass sackings, is introduced under the guise of management initiated retirement and greater efficiency and economy in the Public Service. 
The Labor Party is committed to economy and efficiency in the Public Service. As I said, when in government it set up the Coombs Royal Commission to look at the proper and efficient management of the Public Service. It was the first and only comprehensive review of Australian Government administration in over 50 years. The Coombs Commission produced a comprehensive list of recommendations concerning efficiency and economy in the service. ALP policy supports these recommendations. It is absolutely imperative to install checks and balances that compel greater efficiency in public administration. This Government's record in the area of public administration is nothing short of gross negligence and complete incompetence. Putting aside the provisions of this Bill, an examination of its record of personnel management over the past  Vh  years reveals staggering false economies. I ask honourable members to consider the case of the employment officer in the Commonwealth Employment Service who was not allowed to notify unemployed workers of job vacancies by telegram because this miserable Government fails to appropriate enough money to ensure the efficient operation of a modern employment service. I want to quote from a minute from the former Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. The reference on the minute is 66/3608. It indicates the way in which the Government views efficiency in the Commonwealth Public Service. The subject matter of the minute is the use of telegrams by the CES. It states: 
We have been advised that there is a funding difficulty of considerable magnitude in regard to the CES Postal Vote on a National level and unless expenditure is curtailed immediately, funds will very quickly be fully spent. 
The minute then lays down the conditions under which people are to scrutinise the sending of telegrams. There are some interesting points in the CES document, dictated by the Government. It states: 
Restrict the use of telegrams to applicants registered at the vacancy office. Other OCES should display the vacancy only, but should not match unless asked to do so by the vacancy office. 
Use a ratio of two or three telegrams as a maximum for any one vacancy. 
Ensure that each applicant without a telephone is asked for the telephone number of a neighbour or friend. 
In order to save money by not sending a telegram to the person seeking employment this Government says: 'Let us use the whole community. If there is a telephone a couple of blocks away it is much cheaper to interfere with the private lives of the people who live down the street. They can take the telephone call from the CES office rather than the applicant being notified by the CES'. This is just another way in which this Government expresses efficiency in the mad dog fashion which has ensued in the last three years. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour this day. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Opposition is totally opposed to some clauses of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. Those clauses to which we are opposed aptly reflect the hostile attitude of this Government to the Public Service. Indeed, one can take a line through the Government's policy on staff ceilings in looking at its general attitude to the role of the Public Service in providing a proper service to the community of Australia. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had pointed out that this attitude had been applied throughout most departments but in particular to the Commonwealth Employment Service at a time when this Government has brought about a record unemployment figure of 450,000 people. Yet it still seeks to cut back the service offered by the Commonwealth Employment Service by reducing the number of staff available. 
That is not the only issue at stake. I draw attention to a letter which was sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  yesterday, a copy of which has been sent to me by a constituent in the Australian Capital Territory. It draws the attention of the Parliament to the irrational staff cuts that have taken place and how they are affecting people in the community. The letter states: . 
Dear Prime Minister 
I write to draw your attention to a situation which has arisen at my daughter's school (Malkara Special School, ACT) as a direct result of your Government's policy in relation to Public Service staff ceilings. 
In short, the situation is that speech therapy services that once were provided at the school have had to be withdrawn because of starring constraints placed on the Capital Territory Health Commission. As the attached letter from the Commission says in part, 'The Speech Therapy service of the Mental Health Branch does not have enough staff to service all areas or groups within Canberra which desperately require it.' In the other copy of correspondence attached, the  Chairman  of the ACT Schools Authority acknowledges that  . . a recognised need is not being met' 
As I said, one can take a line through the Government's policies on staff ceilings to see what it would do with the new power which is made available under the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. People generally would not be opposed to the redeployment and the proper and efficient use of the resources of the Public Service. But giving it wide powers for the dismissal of people for any reason which is provided for under clause 7 of this Bill is something to which we on the Opposition side of the House and to which people who will be subject to the provisions of this Bill are opposed. 
In New South Wales alone at the end of March this year a fully staffed CES office would have required an additional 279 people. On average that is three staff per office. Let us examine the administration of the export development incentives which this Government supposedly regards as so important. In the Export Development Grants Board there have been delays of up to two years in processing claims because this Government has not provided sufficient professional staff to cope with the expanded work load. Senior officers of the Board have had to work as receptionists and clerical assistants because the Government could not be bothered to hire any of the hundreds and thousands of school leavers it has relegated to the dole queues. For instance, in the last year of the Labor Government 3,226 school leavers were recruited as permanent employees of the Public Service compared with 1,430 in the first year of the Fraser Government. These examples of false economies could go on and on. In the 1978 annual report of the Public Service Board the Board warned the Government that its rigid and inane application of staff ceilings had grave implications for standards of service. Staff ceilings, the Board said:  . . reduced mobility between departments countering the best usage of skills and talents available; diverted resources away from the training and staff development programs and activities relating to the achievement of long term economies. 
Let me continue with the views of the Public Service Board. One can see from the comments made in its annual report from which I have read and from which I will quote again, how far this Government is going. The philosophy behind the Government's move for termination of employment of people less than 55 years of age parallels its mad thinking in relation to staff ceilings in the Public Service. Again I quote from the Public Service Board annual report 1977. It states: 
There are also indications that the restrictions are adversely affecting the efficiency of the Service in the longer term. 
In order to meet immediate commitments, some departments have considered it necessary to divert resources away from training and staff development programs thus impeding the development of essential knowledge and skills. 
In a number of areas in the Service it has been necessary to curtail review activities directed towards the achievement of long term economy. 
This Government states that the Bill is directed to more efficient use of resources of the Public Service. But its previous decisions which were aimed at greater use and efficiency of the Public Service do not stand up to scrutiny. If the Government took time out to sit down with the peak councils and discuss these matters it would find that many reasons would be given by the peak councils as to why this legislation ought to be withdrawn. Greater negotiation ought to be taking place between Government and the employee representatives because some of the past arguments used by the Government have not turned out to be factual. The Public Service Board annual report also states: 
In current circumstances, it is the Board 's view that any further general reductions in staff ceilings would call for corresponding decisions by the Government to forego functions or reduce standards of service. 
During 1977-78 a large number of representations was made by departments and authorities for increases in their  staff ceilings. The main increases sought were in the context of: 
Increased numbers of people served by unemployment benefits administration in the Departments of Social Security and Employment and Industrial Relations. 
The need for newly established bodies to consolidate their activities, for example, the Special Broadcasting Service, and the Industrial Relations Bureau, and 
An increased emphaiss on some existing activities, for example, in the area of import controls. 
One could go on quoting what the Public Service Board said or even what the Coombs inquiry said in relation to some of these matters upon which the Government has acted. But it has acted, as I have said, with false economies. The consultant's report to the Coombs inquiry had this to say: 
Substantial evidence exists that the vast majority of Cabinet Ministers are completely unaware of the impact of ceilings upon their departments and hence have paid them only lip service. Ceilings have assumed too much of the aura of a euphemistic political ploy. They have produced breakdowns in various parts of the government administration in the long term, and they have proved incapable of handling shortterm crises. They have proved incompatible with public sector planning. Although exerting some controlling influence over numerical movements in staff they have produced minimal influence upon efficiency and resource allocation in departments. 
I think the Government would have to put forward a far more substantial argument in support of the Bill for this House to agree to it than the case put forward in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  The Minister argues that all is done for the proper, efficient use of the resources of the Public Service. But that is exactly what the Government argued when it put forward the view that the Public Service should be smaller numerically than it was when the Government came to power. But all the Government has done in reducing the number of staff in the Public Service is ensured that the community has a worse service and that the people in the Public Service cannot carry out their duties. 
These reports make it plain that standards of service are falling. Activities are being curtailed and the structure and capacity of the Public Service are being undermined. Such results, testified to by the highest bureaucratic authority, indicate that the policies that this Government pursues are policies of false economy. At the same time as the Public Service is being starved of human resources, the number of unemployed is growing. In the name of efficiency, this Government justifies its irresponsible failure to staff adequately those parts of the bureaucracy providing services to or finding jobs for the unemployed. In marked contrast to the Fraser Government's savage repression of employment in vital areas of the public sector, stands its extravagant use of committees of inquiry and task forces whose reports are usually commissioned to enable the Government to pass the buck for its disinterest in positive and compassionate proposals in the areas of employment, health and social security. 
The Prime Minister, since his election, has set up some 80 inquiries at enormous expense to the Australian taxpayer. The Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, whose report was unique in that it failed to produce one positive proposal to alleviate youth unemployment, cost approximately $lm. Over the past three years, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, as it was called before it was broken up, has placed before Cabinet numerous submissions relating to job creation, education and training. All were rejected. During this time, the Government spent $lm on a cosmetic inquiry which produced a document renowned for its concern for privilege and inequality. Consultants, lawyers and university professors have profited from generous handouts while public servants are expected to grin and bear unfair staff ceilings, government vilification and disinterest. They are now threatened with the ultimate humiliation- management initiated retirement. 
The problem with this Bill is not that it is concerned with efficiency and economy but that, given this Government's record, it will be used as an instrument for pursuing further false economies, for justifying staff cuts in areas such as social security, employment and health. A Labor government, in its approach to these matters, would not want to see the numbers employed in Australian government areas run wild. What we would want to see would be staff numbers that were adequate to carry out the functions of departments at the standard that the public is entitled to expect. We would adopt the Coombs inquiry recommendation for the abolition of staff ceilings and would substitute the manpower budgeting system recommended by the inquiry. The advantage of that system is that it gears staffing levels to work requirements and standards of service. We would also expect the public sector to make some contribution to the easing of unemployment. 
Nowhere in the Minister's second reading speech did he make any attempt to explain why the Government has not followed the blueprint offered by the Coombs inquiry in respect of the matters to which the Bill relates. That blueprint was based on the existing and well understood provisions of sections 20, 67 and 85 of the Public Service Act. In relation to permanent staff, those provisions give the Public Service Board power to retrench staff excess to requirements, to retire persons who have reached minimum retiring age and to retire persons who are inefficient for reasons within or beyond their own control. The basic framework was already there. All it needed was some modifications such as the development of an appeal and review system, in which case we would not have the Public Service in the uproar it is in now. Instead, we have this piece of legislation which is woolly in its thinking, sinister in its possible means of application and open to arbitrary extension by administrative regulation and procedures effectively outside the scrutiny of Parliament. 
The Labor Party acknowledges that there are some worthwhile facets of the Bill. Voluntary early retirement is one such provision. The redeployment provisions are much needed, but are ill-conceived. On the other hand, the manner in which the Bill is framed makes it difficult to bring forward amendments. There are some questions which require considerable thought and further investigation. There is a lot to suggest that the provisions of the Bill have not been adequately thought through. In the circumstances, the Opposition moves: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to incorporate- 
specific reasoning for termination of employment; and 
b) a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment'. 
If, as will be the case, our amendment is defeated, we intend to fight in the Committee stage several clauses of this Bill. We join with members of the Commonwealth Public Service who believe that the manner in which this Bill is drafted leaves open to a government which has shown no sincerity at all to its own employees, powers that will politicise the Public Service in a way which is totally unacceptable to the Australian community, and a way which was never intended by the people who formed these parliaments that the Public Service should be used. It will leave open to the Government the opportunity to treat the Public Service in a manner which it is not able to treat any other section of the Australian work force. It is important that the Parliament does not treat the public servant as just another member of the work force. If the Fraser Administration politicises the Public Service in the standover way in which this Bill is drafted, it will be a very dark day indeed, not just for the public servants of Australia but for the whole Australian community. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, recognising that there are 105 unemployed juniors in Canberra for every available job vacancy as against a national average of 28 to 1 , rejects the statement by the member for Canberra calling for the abolition of unemployment benefits for people under the age of 25 years. 
I move: 
Clause 7, page 5, line 1 1, omit sub-paragraph (iii), substitute the following sub-paragraph: 
for the reason that he no longer possesses the essential educational or legal qualifications for his duties'. 
The essence of the whole debate on this Bill, is whether or not the Government gathers to itself the powers to dismiss people for reasons which are not stated in the Bill and without allowing its actions to be subject to the scrutiny of this Parliament. Most of the attention of speakers on both sides of the Chamber has been given over to clause 7 (b) (iii). It has been the subject of the last few hours of debate that we have had on this matter. I have been quite astounded by the contributions of some of the people who have spoken for the Government. The honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  perhaps gets the prize by saying that he has a lot of public servants who come to see him and tell him that they have nothing to do and that they are bored because they have nothing to do, and the fact that they have nothing to do is having a bad influence on those people who are being fully utilised. He did not state from which departments these people came or in which cities they worked. It was quite noticeable throughout the whole debate on the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  a Liberal member of this Parliament who is closer to public servants in terms of his constituents - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member can depend on the Chair to adjudicate on that. 
-It is amazing. The Baillieus, with all their brilliant sons and daughters- some of them are in industry, some are in commerce, banking and rural industries- and we have got to get an idiot. They have got to send him to Parliament and we have got to put up with him. My God, you are rich but you are brainless. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest the honourable member does return to the clause of the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Port Adelaide will withdraw. 
I withdraw it. As I say, clause 7(b) (iii) covers the area which causes most of the objection by employees of the Public Service to this total Bill. Members on the Government side have put forward the view that, because they see the Bill as being so generous to those people 55 years of age and over who opt to retire, that should be sufficient for every public servant in Australia to accept the Bill in its totality. That is not the case. Perhaps the Government is aiming to build good relations with those people who will receive redundancy payments at 55 years of age and over who opt to retire. The Government wants to remember that when it is building good relations with people who opt to retire at 55 years of age they will no longer be in the Public Service. The controversy of clause 7(b) (iii) surrounds all those people who believe they have made the Public Service their career. It is no good saying to anybody aged 25, 30 or 35 years that to introduce a Bill and expect their support - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member for La Trobe will not get the defence or the protection of the Chair if he continues to interject regardless of what the honourable member for Port Adelaide says. 
The younger generations of people employed by the Public Service who look upon entering the Public Service as a career without being politicised to carry out the duties that are afforded them by whoever is in government in this country are not going to cease their objection to this legislation merely because a few of the top echelon who are reaching retirement age may be paid a redundancy payment which appears attractive to those aged 55 years and over. I am astounded by what the Minister said in defence of the efficiency in which the Government has been running the Public Service. He also tried to answer the allegations that I have made regarding the number of people who have been affected by staff ceilings. He said that it was just not true and that what this Government has done has been no different to what previous governments have done. He did not answer the figures which I gave. In the last year of the Whitlam Administration 3,226 school leavers were recruited as permanent appointees to the Public Service. In the first year of this Government's term of office 1,430 people were appointed. That is a difference of 1,800 in the number of school leavers being appointed. In dealing with the Public Service, the Government is politicising the employees. The Government is giving them burdens to carry and the number of people required to carry them just cannot do so. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  and the honourable member for Barker said that public servants really should not complain about this legislation or clause 7 (b) (iii) which refers to any other prescribed reason for which they can be deployed or have their employment terminated. The honourable member for Latrobe says that they should not object. He says they should not object because if they are going to be retrenched they are going to be retrenched and that is all there is to it. They really should not complain. The vast majority of people in the Public Service are complaining in defence of their case. We listened to those speakers who put forward the Government's point of view as to why this legislation ought to be accepted. The honourable member for Diamond Valley and the honourable member for Barker were two of the four speakers whom the Government put forward in defence of the legislation. All they wanted to do in the time they spent on their feet defending the legislation was to compare the Public Service conditions with others. In the case of the honourable member for Diamond Valley, it was the building industry. In the case of the honourable member for Barker, it was private industry generally. We on this side of the chamber say that one cannot make comparisons between those people who are attracted to work for the Government and the conditions under which people might work in the thousands and thousands of industries outside the Public Service. 
One of the other suspicions we have about this Government is that it has been so untruthful in so many matters. We are going to hear another one tomorrow at 8 p.m., I understand. It has been so untruthful about so many matters that we do not really believe - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member for Holt makes a point of order. At this stage the honourable member for Port Adelaide is trying, in his reasoning, periodically to discuss the clause and his own amendment. I admit that he is somewhat away from the matter some of the time. I would ask him to return to the cant of the amendment. 
We are dealing with clause 7(b) (iii) regarding redeployment of employees, or the clause that could lead to the termination of their employment. We ask for a quite specific stipulation as when this can occur. The Government is. putting forward in its legislation that it does not have to give reasons. Sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of 7 (b) can be taken out altogether. If sub-paragraph (iii) is left in there- it refers to for any other prescribed reason'- that covers any reason which the Government may want to give. We have such deep suspicions about the way the Government sees the Public Service being utilised that we are not prepared to accept it. For instance, if this Government, which puts forward the view that it believes in small government, less intervention in the market place and in leaving it open for private enterprise, decided that all the major departments should have their work load reduced by a large amount or even that they should get out of the area of responsibility altogether, it can use that as the reason, not just for redeploying but for terminating the work of hundreds and hundreds of people in the Public Service. 
I have answered some of the substantiating reasons that Government members are putting forward as to why the Opposition ought to accept this Bill. We said in our second reading amendment that there were good grounds put forward as to why this Government ought to go back to the drawing board and discuss with the unions involved as to the ways and means around the impasse that has been reached between the employee organisations on this clause and the Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Since the draft legislation of a couple of years ago was introduced, the Government has amended this clause. The original legislation contained the words 'for any other reason'. Now the Government has inserted the phrase 'for any other prescribed reason'. The Government states that the consultation that will go on between the parties involved will preserve the rights of the individuals or class of employees of a department who may be involved. As far as the unions are concerned, to this Government consultation means telling the unions what will happen without any attempt being made to reach a conclusion which is acceptable to both parties. 
If the Government were sincere about trying to overcome the problems inherent in this Bill, it could have sat down with the unions. But the Government on this occasion- as I said yesterday in the second reading debate- has hung out the carrot at the same time in order to attract some people who may think that the retirement and redundancy payments are such that they should let all other parts of the legislation pass. That is not so. In fact, no  speaker  on the Government side has convinced the Opposition that all is above water with this part of the legislation. If this one line of the clause containing the words for any other prescribed reason' had been deleted this debate would have taken a different form altogether. Honourable members say 'All the appeals are there; all the preservations of rights for the public servants are there'. That is just not so. When the head of a department decides that he can reduce the staff numbers of a particular section no right of appeal is open to the affected group. That is the area where the appeals should commence. 
Let me reiterate what every  speaker  on this side of the House has said. We believe in the proper redeployment of public servants. We believe in efficiency in the Public Service. We believe that some sections of this Bill go some way towards achieving that end, but we are not prepared to accept the arguments that have been put forward by other speakers or by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that the rights of the public servants are preserved when the Government introduces a provision into the Bill such as clause 7(b) (iii). We insist that the only way that this legislation can be made acceptable to the Opposition is for the Government to stipulate the reasons for redeployment under paragraph (iii). In that way there will be no leeway for the Government to be as untruthful with the Public Service as it has been with every other section of the community. 
-The Opposition has a series of amendments to move to clause 9. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Does  the honourable member seek leave to move the amendments together? 
Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
Clause 9, page 6, after sub-paragraph ( 1 ) (b) (i) insert the following sub-paragraph: (ia) shall make such findings as may be necessary to apply the procedures set out in a notice in force under subsection 8(1) (including any directions given by the Public Service Board under those procedures) insofar as they are relevant to the operation of the Department, to the Department; and'. 
Clause 9, page 6, line 36, after 'under sub-section 8(1)' insert 'and in accordance with a finding made pursuant to sub-paragraph ( ia ) '. 
Clause 9, page 7, after sub-paragraph (2 ) (b) (i) insert the following sub-paragraph: (ia) shall make such findings as may be necessary to apply the procedures set out in a notice in force under subsection 8(2) (including any directions given by the Public Service Board under those procedures) insofar as they are relevant to the operation of the Department, to the Department; and'. 
Clause 9, page 7, line 9, after 'under sub-section 8 (2) 'insert 'and in accordance with a finding made pursuant to subparagraph (ia)'. 
Clause 9, page 7, at the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: 
Where a redeployment declaration is made pursuant to sub-paragraph ( I ) (b) (ii) or (2) (b) (ii), such declaration shall include full details of- 
a ) the declaration made and the reasons for it; 
the date from which the redeployment declaration is to be effective; and 
the rights of and methods for appeal against the declaration. '. 
The Opposition is concerned about the relationship between the powers of the Public Service Board and the powers of the permanent head as contained in clause 9 which is titled 'Efficient and economical use of staff'. We believe that the amendments we have moved to clause 9 will reassert the power of the permanent head vis-a-vis the Public Service Board. Clause 8 gives the Public Service Board a powerful regulatory and coordinating role which we believe the Board sought to divest itself of some years ago. It has now been reclaimed in a vastly augmented form. It is directly contrary to the whole thrust of the Coombs recommendations concerning efficiency. We have attempted in our amendments to see whether the Government can give some explanation as to why it has reverted to the continuation of the role of the Public Service Board which we say it tried to divest itself of some time ago. We have moved our amendments to ensure that the matter is clarified so that the role of the permanent head in clause 9 will be a lot clearer than it is at present. 
In the present legislation assessments may take account of unstated government policy, for example, a policy to begin wholesale contracting out of functions previously carried out by departments or authorities. Without this amendment the Government could effectively destroy functions of government without any explanation to its employees or to the Australian public. I draw your attention,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to the wording of proposed new clause 9 (4). It states: 
Where a redeployment declaration is made pursuant to sub-paragraph ( I ) (b) (ii) or (2) (b) (ii), such declaration shall include full details of- 
the declaration made and the reasons for it; 
the date from which the redeployment declaration is to be effective; and 
the rights of and methods for appeal against the declaration. 
I think this is an increasingly important factor concerning the way that this Government sees the Public Service being utilised and the way in which it wants to give service to the Australian community. We have already seen numerous changes made to Medibank. As one of the speakers from this side of the House said earlier in the evening, more people working for the Health Insurance Commission today received retrenchment notices. If the Government decides to opt out of certain services now available to the public we believe that the method should be laid out and compelled in this Bill so that everybody, especially the people affected, would know of the decision, the reasons for it, how they would be affected and what their rights of appeal would be. We do not think that is already inherent in the Bill. We believe that the amendments we have moved to this clause are legitimate in clarifying the proper role of the permanent head visavis the role of the Public Service Board in determining the functions and features of departments. We also believe that when the Government puts into operation its policy of rationalising its own work and service to the community, that also should be clarified and the information made available to its employees. 
-Our objection is not that there ought to be a right of appeal against Government decisions. If Labor were in government there would be no appeal against our decisions. But the Labor Party thinks that the Government has an obligation particularly to its employees to inform them and the public about what is going on. Clause 8(1) reads: 
The Public Service Board may, from time to time, publish in the  Gazette  a notice setting out administrative procedures to be followed by Departments for the purpose of facilitating the achievement of the objectives of this Parliament. 
That sub-clause lays down the approved criteria and procedures. Clause 9(1) reads: 
The Permanent Head of a Department- 
is responsible for ensuring that the Department operates in such a manner as to make as efficient and economical use of the services of the persons employed in the Department as is practicable; and 
b ) without limiting the generality of paragraph (a )- 
shall give all such directions, and so all such things, as can be given or done by him for ensuring that the procedures set out in a notice in force under sub-section 8(1) (including any directions given by the Public Service Boards under those procedures) . . . 
Obviously there is a collision course in terms of how effective this clause will be. I draw the attention of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  to the Coombs report. He quoted from it when he thought that it suited his arguments. But let me tell him what the Coombs report says at page 389 under the sub-heading The Public Service Board '. It reads: 
Accordingly we have urged that co-ordinating authorities- particularly the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Treasury and the Board should place greater emphasis on their educating and promotional functions, delegating greater responsibility for immediate decisions to the departments and agencies concerned, and limiting their active intervention to the conduct of spot checks and joint studies to discover the adequacy with which the delegated responsibility is accepted and performed. 
As I said earlier, I believe  Sir Alan  Cooley was the  Chairman  of the Board at that time the Board sought to divest itself of the responsibilities which are now being written back into this Bill. We say it is bad legislation. It is bad reasoning in terms of trying to get proper efficiency out of the Public Service. In our opinion there will be a conflict between what the Board wants, 
Government's decisions in terms of what departments it wants and the way in which the permanent heads think the departments ought to be run. 
The Minister went to great pains to say Opposition members were overcritical of the Board or permanent heads. I do not know that anybody on this side was overcritical, but in a debate of this nature no one should be above criticism. If people want to be critical of permanent heads and there have been plenty of duds over the years or the Public Service Board, which cannot sit in paradise above criticism, they are entitled to be critical. Honourable members opposite criticise people further down the line. In fact, their great flogging horse is the Fourth Division. The members of the Fourth Division are the ones that honourable members opposite like to get stuck into. So we on this side do not make any apologies for criticising people in this debate. I am not aware of any Opposition criticism of the Board or permanent heads which was not warranted. 
I seek leave to move amendments (7), (8) and (9) together. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Clause15, page 12, after line 29 insert the following paragraphs: "(aa) the issue of a notice in writing under paragraph 8 (3) (c) in relation to the employee or a specified class of employees of which the employee is a member; "(ab) the making of a finding under sub-paragraph 9 ( 1 ) (b) (ia) or 9 (2) (b) (ia) in relation to the employee or a specified class of employees of which the employee is a member." 
Clause15, page 12, lines 41 and 42, omit sub-paragraph (2) (a) (iii). 
Clause 15, page 13, lines 25-46, omit sub-clauses (5) and (6). 
Clause15 provides for appeals by employees against action which may be taken under this Bill. Firstly I draw attention to the non-existence of the right of appeal against first line decisions. We raise objection to the fact that a section of the Public Service can be affected by a decision of the Public Service Board or a permanent head to redeploy or retire a certain number of people but there is no right of appeal against the first line decision of the departmental head against redeployment or terminating an employee's services. 
The honourable member for Holt, who has been following this debate closely, says there is a right of appeal. I ask the Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  to comment on that. It does not appear to the Opposition that there is a right of appeal. The other matter we raise is that the appeal system as it exists can drag into an appeal people against whom no declaration has been made. In fact, some people appealing may have to appeal on the basis of the position of their fellow employees. We say that this is unacceptable to the employees. It is certainly unacceptable to us as an Opposition. There must be ways and means around this sort of weird system of appeal. The system of appeal in the Bill is objectionable in that it involves a system of informing and indicting fellow officers. It is calculated to intimidate workers. 
Under clause 15 other employees in the same class as an appellant against whom no declaration has been made at the time of appeal may be joined in the course of the appellants hearing. The effect of such joining may be that as a result of the appeal hearing individuals become declared employees with no right of appeal. As we said in the second reading debate, the appeals which have been defended so valiantly by government spokesmen are not what they should be. 
In the first case, I ask the Minister to explain whether the honourable member for Holt is correct or not. Is there an appeal against the departmental head making a decision that a certain number of employees in a section of the Public Service has to be redeployed and ultimately retired? Is there an appeal against that decision? Secondly, can people not involved in the initial declaration be roped in and finally declared for redeployment and termination of employment even though they were not part of the initial declaration as provided for in this Bill? If the answer to the first case is that there is no appeal and the answer in the second case is that people can be roped in as a result of other people who have been declared redeployable appealing, then we say that this whole clause is wrong and has to be amended. 
The Opposition moved the amendments as a result of observations on the way in which this Bill operates. We have moved amendments where it is necessary to extend the provision of appeal and have asked to have deleted from clause 15 those sections that require the intimidation of other employees not in the initial declaration for redeployment or final retirement. 
-The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  has admitted to our criticism because he has told us- it is no satisfaction to us to know this-that if the permanent head makes a mistake in those that he selects for redeployment or if he makes a mistake during the period of appeal, some other employees may be roped in. Sub-clause (5) of clause IS states: 
Where a declared employee, being an employee in respect of whom a redeployment declaration has been made by reason that he is included in a class of employees employed in a Department or by a prescribed Commonwealth authority which comprises a greater number of employees than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of the Department or authority, appeals to a Tribunal against the making, under section 9, of that declaration in relation to him, the Tribunal may- 
if the employee is employed in a Department- at the request of the employee or of the Public Service Board; or 
if the employee is employed by a prescribed Commonwealth authority- at the request of the employee or of that authority, join all or any of the employees included in that class as parties to that appeal. 
We have moved in one of our amendments that that should be deleted - 
Because it will make the permanent head or the Public Service Board far more responsible and far more selective in their decision making. It means now, they can rope them in. If they miss them the first time they can get them at the period of the appeal because the clause now states - 
Why would not one have a nasty mind after listening to all the lies this Government has told the people over the last  3lA  years? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member will use reasonable language. 
-I said 'the Government'. I did not pinpoint anybody. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I realise that. 
It would be pretty easy. Opposition members are not relieved at all in their expectations of the way in which this Bill will be implemented by the Minister telling us that the person who is roped in at the appeal is going to have the same rights. One of the rights that person is going to have is the right to rope in a few more people, and so it goes on. As was pointed out by the  Canberra Times,  it is a Catch 22 situation; there is no end to it. We say that is unacceptable. 
Could honourable members imagine any other system of appeal in any other jurisdiction, whether it be just looking after the Public Service or in a court of law, where this sort of thing would apply? We are saying that the permanent head or the Public Service Board makes a decision, declares that a certain number of people are to be redeployed and may finally end up having their employment terminated, but when these people go to the appeal they have to rope in a few more people in order to save their skins. That is what it means. The member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  need not shake his head. I ask him to read the clause. It does not say what it means. It has not been confirmed by what the Minister just said. Of course what I said is true. 
We are opposed to it because it is bad law. It is very bad law in the industrial relations field to think that 20 people may be taken out of a section to be redeployed and one of the buffer zones they may have is to say: 'Look, one of the ways we may get out of this is to encompass every body in the section in the appeal '. That is what the clause states. It is one of the reasons why the Opposition is objecting. If members opposite want to defeat it, I say to them, let us have the appeal where the permanent head makes the decision before it reaches anybody's name. When he says that the section is going to be reduced, let us have an appeal against that decision. Let the Minister justify why he or the Public Service Board has made that decision, and then perhaps we would not need the later appeal clauses. But he cannot have it both ways. There is absolutely no doubt, from the way in which the Government is manipulating the Public Service, that that is what it is all about. It is quite clear. One of the reasons why the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  has not spoken in this debate is that he could not justify to his constituents his support of this Bill. One of the reasons why he cannot justify his support of the Bill is this very clause, which is clumsy, bad legislation, and unacceptable to public servants and to the Opposition. 
-The Opposition has no objection to the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  concerning the sittings on Monday and Tuesday, but we think that by now the Government should have in mind exactly when the Parliament is going to rise for the winter recess. The Parliament has before it perhaps the most serious legislation of this session. I refer to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and associated Bills. They have taken over 23 hours of debate in the Senate. I suggest that they will take a quite long time to go through the House of Representatives. I put on notice the fact that the Opposition will not rush through these Bills. They are far too important to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. It need not be suggested by the Government that we should rush these Bills through in the last day or two of the session so that Parliament can rise. 
If the Government were competent it should be able to tell us now when Parliament will rise. If the Government were competent it would withdraw the ASIO Bill and associated Bills and bring them back in the Budget session. There is no doubt that if the Parliament is to rise the week after next there will not be sufficient time to give proper debate to these Bills. The Government will have to guillotine them. These Bills are far too serious for the Government to suggest that we will sit into the early hours of the morning in order that they may be rushed through so that the Parliament may get up as planned. This announcement by the Leader of the House is another expression of the gross imcompetence of the administration of this Government. 
-The Opposition is not concerned with the opinion expressed in this debate by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or the Minister for Defence (Mr Killen) 
It is cleared up as far as the Opposition is concerned. We have said: ' No '. 
We are not concerned about what the Minister for Defence says. He could not defend a fowlhouse let alone the country. It does not matter what he says, what the Treasurer says, or what the honourable member for Berowra says in this debate. This debate is about one person in this Parliament and one person only- that is, John Malcolm Fraser. The deception which this country-- 
The Government is so keen on comparing the integrity, the honesty and the performance in public office of this Prime Minister against the former Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam. He makes the present Prime Minister a pygmy of politics. The Prime Minister is so dishonest in what he has told the people of Australia that he does not deserve the high office of Prime Minister of this country. Everybody who is sitting on the Government benches knows it. We have had such a performance ever since the present Prime Minister took over the reins as Leader of the Opposition in 1975. Let us have a look at what has been printed for everybody in 
Australia to read about the performance of the present Prime Minister, irrespective of what people call him. I can assure honourable members that there are a lot of pubs in Moreton in which the people are not calling him 'Malcolm Fraser', or 'the present Prime Minister'. On 6 February 1975 the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister, said: 
Bill Snedden has my full support. I repeat, as I have said on numerous occasions, that I support the elected leadership of the Liberal Party . . . There is no contest. The issue was decided in November . . . 
Six weeks later Malcolm Fraser successfully challenged Snedden for the leadership. That was on 21 March 1975. So his commitment to the leadership of the Liberal Party lasted six weeks. There is absolutely no doubt at all that when the present Prime Minister made his commitment to the then leader of the Liberal Party, Billy Snedden, who is now Speaker of the House, there was no commitment at all. Such performances have continued right up until last Thursday night. We should not worry about what the Treasurer said, as the newspapers are now indicating; we should look for the author. The author of that paper presented last Thursday night is the present Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser. Let us have a look at what else he has said. 
The honourable member - 
-I take the point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  On 21 August 1975, the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser-  I can understand the Minister for Defence being annoyed- stated: 
At this stage, it's our intention to allow the Budget passage through the Senate. 
That was said by the spokesman, the Leader of the Opposition as he was then,  Mr Fraser.  Thirty-six days later the Liberal and National Country parties used their majority in the Senate to block the Budget. Again that was a commitment which was given publicly to the people of Australia. There was not one element of truth in the commitment which was given. Ever since then, in the way the Prime Minister took over the leadership of the Liberal Party and the way in which he continues to hold the people of Australia in the utmost contempt through what he says publicly, we have had the same sort of performance. There are a lot of other issues that we will examine. Let us look at the election speech of 27 November 1 975. It reads: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
Now we have record unemployment. Almost half a million people are out of work three and a half years after this Prime Minister made that commitment to the Australian people. Again the Prime Minister had absolutely no belief that he could carry out that commitment when he made it. Another 250,000 people have registered as unemployed in Australia since he became Prime Minister. According to the Institute of Applied Economics in Melbourne, 300,000 people described as hidden unemployed are not registered. So unemployment in Australia could be somewhere between 600,000 and 700,000 people. This is the situation three and a half years after the Prime Minister committed himself and his Government to full employment. Let us tear this claim about the Government's economic responsibility to pieces. There is so much truth in what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said on Thursday night. He said: 'This country is being run by a bunch of amateurs'. People are saying this all over Australia. On 12 September 1 978- that is not long ago, it is not even one year ago- the Prime Minister said: 
Inflation at an annual rate of S per cent is within our reach by mid- 1979. It will go on falling under the policies of this Government . . . 
Here we are in mid - 1979. Inflation is over 8 per cent a year and is on the rise. Between December 1978 and mid- 1979 the predicted 5 per cent inflation rate has gone out of the window. Was there any truth in the commitment which was made by the Prime Minister that in mid- 1 979 we would have an inflation rate of 5 per cent? There was absolutely no truth in it. The Minister for Defence knows there was no truth in the commitment made by the Prime Minister in December last year. Based on that commitment the Prime Minister told the pensioners of Australia that because inflation was going to be 5 per cent by mid- 1979, the Government would index their pensions only once a year. It was said that it was only as a result of high inflation that pensions were indexed twice annually. So the pensioners of Australia had to pay for some of the extravagant commitments of this Prime Minister. What was the $28m that this Government, this Prime Minister, saved by indexing pensions once annually spent on? It was not spent on an austerity program of saving money. 
The speech of the Treasurer last Thursday night did not tell us about what the Prime Minister intended to do to tighten his belt. There was no reference to the fact that the $2 8m saved by indexing pensions once a year was being spent to buy two aeroplanes for the Prime Minister to fly around the world. In the latest reports it is stated that these aeroplanes will cost over $30m. Where is the reference to that in the Treasurer's speech which tells the people of Australia that they have to tighten their belts? What is the relevance of what this Prime Minister is doing for himself, to the sacrifices he expects the pensioners of this country to make? When some honourable members opposite get up to defend the speech of last Thursday night, they should tell us about their commitment to the pensioners of Australia - 
There is no substance in the point of order. 
-I remind the honourable member for Dundas that the Prime Minister's proposed wage increase last year was not $30m. That is what he has given himself in the purchase of the two VIP aircraft this year. If the Minister for Defence is asked in the party room about the cost of the VIP aircraft and he opts to tell the party room the truth, he will say that the Government will spend $30m- the $30m which it has taken off the pensioners- to pay for VIP aircraft for the Prime Minister to fly around the world. 
Let us look at another of the Prime Minister's promises. On 27 November 1975, because he was craving to be the Prime Minister of this country, he said: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline: 
Within a few months of coming to power this Prime Minister absolutely destroyed Medibank. There is evidence of another commitment he made which he had no intention of keeping. This Prime Minister, as the Minister for Defence so dearly likes to call him, will say anything at election time. He will tell the people of Australia any lie that has to be told in order to get votes. Let us look at the Government's commitment to cut taxation. In the 1977 election campaign the Liberal-National Country Parties spent $lm on an advertisement stating: 'Ring this number in any capital city and we will tell you how much tax you will save'. People rang the number and were told that under this Government's scheme, a man with a wife and two children would save $6 or $7 a week. Within three months of that 1977 election, tax reform went straight out the window. 
The people of Australia must understand that they cannot believe this Government. This Government is built on deception. The present Prime Minister became leader of his party through deception. He told his then leader,  Mr Snedden,  that he had his support. Within six weeks he had challenged  Mr Snedden  and had taken over his job. He told the people of Australia that the Senate would not be used to block the Budget, yet within 36 days the Senate was used to block the 1975 Budget. The commitment to pensioners, the commitment to wage earners and the commitment to groups in this community connected with health care, have all gone out the window because this Prime Minister cannot be believed. Anybody who in future believes anything that this Government tells the populace of Australia will get 11 out of 10 for being a Christian. We know what is going to happen in 1980. One can predict now what the present Prime Minister is going to tell the people of Australia in 1980. He will tell them: 'Your taxes are going to go down; inflation is going to go down; we are going to find jobs for everybody'. 
I refer the people of Australia, or those who believe that this Government will find them jobs, to an advertisement in a European newspaper. We have tens of thousands of unemployed kids walking around the streets of this country, yet this Government will not spend a penny on training them for the jobs and the skills that are needed in Australia. An advertisement in a West German newspaper says: 'Contact the Australian Embassy. We want toolmakers, fitters, mechanics, boilermakers, ladies' hairdressers, butchers, pastry cooks and bakers'. That is an advertisement in a West German newspaper for people to come to Australia to take the jobs that a decent government would be training Australian children to do. But this Government will not spend the money to train our young people. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made only one reference to unemployment in his speech last Thursday night- one paragraph out of a 35 or 37 minute speech- and all it said was that the Government thought there were a few more people in the community from whom it could take unemployment benefits. Later on Thursday night, when the Treasurer appeared on the program  Nationwide,  a new tactic was used, a new formula of deceit by this Government. The Treasurer, followed on Friday morning by the Prime Minister, told us that next year the unemployment rate would be the same as this year and that the inflation rate would be the same. They will not be the same and the people of Australia ought to realise that. 
We have a rotten, corrupt Government that cannot tell the truth, a Government that was built and lives on deception. It ought to be rejected. The Government and especially the Prime Minister, has no right to remain in office. In January of next year, unemployment will be well over 550,000. Yet all that this Government can do is employ a few more people in trench coats in the Department of Social Security to hound the young people of Australia in the hope that it can stop them getting $36 a week unemployment benefit. Australia desperately needs a government that will take on some of the problems that this country is facing. More than that, we need another person like Gough Whitlam We have such a person in Bill Hayden, who is honest and decent and whose integrity is accepted within the Australian community. 

 Government members interjecting- 

Government members can say what they like about Whitlam and they can say what they like about Hayden, but neither of them tells lies, and they are looked upon in the community as people of integrity and decency, people who try to overcome the problems. Under the Labor Government, there was not the corruption and deception that has gone on with this Government. I tell Government members that the Prime Minister is going to lead them right down the drain because the deception on which their Government is built will destroy them in the end. All they have to do is read the statements of the Prime Minister over the last three or four years. No one should and no one can believe anything he says on any issue. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has reminded me that in 1975 this Prime Minister said that Australia did not need a tourist as Prime Minister. This Prime Minister has been overseas once every 10 weeks at a cost to the Australian taxpayer of $3.1 m. So this man who three years ago told the people that Australia did not need a tourist as Prime Minister has made 17 trips overseas since becoming Prime Minister. Sooner or later- and I hope it is sooner rather than later- the people of Australia will realise that they need a decent government. I only hope that this Prime Minister will do what he did in 1975 and give us an election a year early. He should not wait until 1980 to let the people have some say. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in view of the Government's admission that there will be at least half a million unemployed early in 1980, in the opinion of this House, and as a matter of urgency, a Joint 
Committee should be established to inquire into and report upon unemployment in Australia, with special reference to: 
1 ) The extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem; 
The degree to which unemployment bears particularly upon certain industries, regions and sectors of the workforce; 
The social implications of prolonged large-scale unemployment; 
The applicability to Australia of innovative employment creating schemes operating in other comparable countries; 
) The extent to which unemployment could be reduced by implementing and expanding manpower programs; 
Other means by which unemployment could be reduced; and 
The extent and nature of possible conflict between the objectives of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. 
The motion will be seconded by the socially conscious honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis). 
-One of the unwritten scandals of the Fraser Government has been its deliberate, clandestine and almost criminal cut-backs in training opportunities available to the unemployed. The approach of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to training policies, as articulated through his Minister for unemployment, is riddled with lies, deception and malice. As the level and duration of unemployment have risen, unofficial government policy has been to cut back deliberately training opportunities for the Australian work force. 
It appears that this Government has discovered a new and brilliant mathematical formula for drawing up its social welfare and manpower programs. It goes like this: If unemployment rises by 100 percent, cut training programs by 100 per cent; if the number of unemployment beneficiaries rises by 100 per cent, start a dole bludger campaign and cut the total number of beneficiaries by 100 per cent; if there is a shortage of 100 skilled tradesmen, knock 100 people off the dole and bring in 100 tradesmen from overseas. The list is endless but the pattern is set. 
Only last week we saw another application of the Fraser Government's formula. The National Employment and Training scheme is the only government measure presently in operation through which unemployed people can gain new skills and work experience and thereby further their chances of obtaining employment. Figures supplied by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  show that by the end of March 1979, the total number of trainees in the NEAT scheme was 1 7,308 compared with an August 1978 peak of 52,664. That is a reduction of 67 per cent. The Special Youth Employment Training Program, the only government measure in operation with the potential to reduce youth unemployment, has been cut back savagely to 8,233 compared with a peak figure of 39,319 in August 1978- a reduction of 79 per cent. 
These clandestine cut-backs should be contrasted with the dishonest public statements concerning government training policies made by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. For example, on 15 February, in an address to the Committee for Economic Development in Australia, he said: 
Providing opportunities Tor training in the skills required by industry is a matter of urgency. 
Later on he said: 
I see the training responsibilities of my portfolio as of prime importance to a successful recovery. Unless, as a nation, Australia invests in the development of the appropriate skilled work force to support and sustain economic growth, we will fail ourselves and we will fail our children. 
As of March 1 979, this Government is training 3.9 per cent of the officially registered unemployed. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research states that there are a further 300,000 'hidden' unemployed. If this figure is included, it means that two out of every 100 jobless are receiving training under the NEAT scheme. This should be contrasted with the situation last August when 13 out of every 100 unemployed received assistance under the NEAT scheme. This is just another example of the Fraser Government's formula. Manpower programs should be available to all those who are unemployed instead of to the fortunate few who, through a lottery process, gain assistance. These reductions are taking place at a time when unemployment, in absolute terms, is higher than that experienced during the Great Depression. Last Thursday, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  publicly admitted that by January 1 980 the number of registered unemployed would rise above half a million people- an increase of at least 240,000 people since Malcolm Fraser became Prime Minister of Australia. As I have said, according to the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, a further 300,000 people are described as 'hidden' unemployed- people who are not registered with the Commonwealth 
Employment Service. Early next year over 800,000 Australians who would like to work will be jobless. 
Since 1976, the average duration of unemployment has continued to rise rapidly. Between November 1976 and November 1978, the duration of unemployment rose from 17.6 weeks to 27.6 weeks. By November 1978, the average duration of unemployment was disturbingly high- about 6 months for most groups and appreciably higher for some important categories. By April this year the average duration was almost 30 weeks- 29.7 weeks. No less than 72,100 people were unemployed for more than a year and a further 48,000 were unemployed for more than 6 months. 
I should not have to remind the House of the grave social and economic consequences of this situation. But how does the Government react? It reacts with a despicable campaign against the unemployed who, in the Government's view, have created their own unemployment. It reacts with the Fraser Government's formula. In the appropriation Bills, before the House some weeks ago, the Government reduced the 1 978-79 Budget allocation for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme by 10 per cent. Today fewer apprentices are being trained and many tradesmen are leaving their trades at a time when employers complain of shortages of skills. There is however no shortage of potential apprentices. In March 1978 the ratio of apprenticeship seekers to unfilled apprenticeship vacancies was 57 to one- 57 people were applying for every apprenticeship vacancy in Australia. The  chairman  of the National Training Council has estimated the shortfall of new trades people to be above 10,000 a year. 
How does the Fraser Government formula work in the apprenticeship area? The Government makes a deliberate decision to import 40,000 to 50,000 skilled tradesmen and cuts back on our own apprenticeship spending by 10 per cent. It decides to train 10 per cent less of our Australian young people thereby causing higher levels of youth unemployment. It makes up the shortfall by bringing the skilled tradesmen from overseas. Lies and evasion mark this Government's attitude to apprenticeship training. Thousands of apprentices have been retrenched and will never have the chance to finish their training. In my own electorate of Port Adelaide there are cases almost every day. The worst anomaly is that the retrenched apprentices who try to continue full-time training for the period laid down find themselves struck off unemployment benefits. But the final pay-off of hypocrisy is the cut back in the Budget on apprenticeship training- almost 10 per cent. 
While the Government is cutting back on helping our youth, it is paying for advertisements right throughout Europe to bring skilled migrants from overseas. This Government in continuance of that policy, of course, continues migrant unemployment in Australia. This applies particularly to recent arrivals. How would the people reading the advertisements in Europe respond if they knew that the latest figures show the unemployment rate of migrants who arrived in the previous 2 1 months is 1 6.6 per cent. As two academic authorities, Sheehan and Strieker, commented in a recent paper: 
Early school leavers and recently arrived migrants bear an especially heavy burden or unemployment at the present time, and within these two groups both the individual costs of, and the social problems emerging from, prolonged unemployment must be intense. 
As the Williams inquiry pointed out, requirements for skilled labour in the years ahead are not likely to diminish; they are likely to grow as fast as if not faster than the labour force as a whole. Given that immigration is presently contributing some 20 per cent of tradesmen entering the Australian workforce and given the known willingness and suitability of thousands of young Australians to undertake trade training, one would imagine that any rational and sane government would be committing itself to a major reorganisation of trade training and financial support. But what does the Fraser Government do? It applies the same old formula. 
Perhaps the most despicable example of the Government's formula to emerge so far is the decision to discontinue payments under the National Employment and Training system for intellectually handicapped persons. The removal of the subsidy of $50 per child per week will exclude thousands from schools where they acquire necessary social skills. It will thrust them into a non-existent job market and condemn them to a life of dependency on government through unemployment benefit and the invalid pension. It is little wonder that the Minister did not want to reveal this in public. 
Training policy is too important to be left in the hands of the illiterate and power hungry. In times of economic prosperity, training and retraining is an indispensable tool of economic management as well as a means for those disadvantaged sections of the work force to upgrade their work skills, their employment opportunities and their intellectual horizons. Training policy is an important weapon in the fight against social injustice and poverty. In periods of economic recession, increased governmental commitment to training and retraining programs is an essential pre-condition of economic recovery. If individuals have access to appropriate training facilities thereby acquiring social and industrial skills, not only is the welfare of the individual greatly enhanced but also when the economic upswing is underway there is room for a smooth expansion of demand and output without the inflationary cost pressures caused by skill bottlenecks. Training policy is important not only because individuals acquire specific skills but also in the broader sense of enabling individuals to adjust and develop. Therefore manpower adjustment must ensure that there is available to each worker the opportunities and services he or she needs in order to lead a satisfying life. 
The present Government says that it is completely opposed to creating jobs, and it is therefore not prepared to utilise one of the key elements of an active manpower policy. Many other countries in the Western industrial world have set in train big job creation programs as the trend in joblessness has risen. These countries have also upgraded training and retraining schemes to combat rising levels of unemployment. They argue that training and retraining is a natural supplement to public sector job creation. This Government refuses to do either. Close scrutiny of these schemes reveals that the Government has failed to comprehend the immense problem of educating and training an industrial work force capable of adapting to rapid periods of structural change within industry. The Crawford inquiry into structural adjustment pointed this out. It stated: 
There has been no comprehensive statement of government manpower policy and objectives since the 1945 White Paper- Full Employment in Australia. While many inquiries have been conducted in recent years, they have not been drawn together into an overall policy framework, nor have all aspects of man-power policy been reviewed. 
The cutbacks in present government programs are even more distressing when it is considered that there are significant skill imbalances in the work force as well as significant structural changes within Australian industry. Lack of marketable skills which are currently in demand disadvantages many unemployed people. In November 1978, 60 unemployed, unskilled manual workers were available for every job vacancy in this country. As the Crawford inquiry pointed out, increased import competition, changes in the pattern of demand for goods and services and demographic changes, together with the introduction of more capital intensive equipment, are all forces which will result in further imbalances. Job opportunities will increase in the more highly skilled occupations and decline in the lesser skilled and unskilled occupations. So what is this Government's reaction to this dilemma? It cut back on the NEAT scheme by 69 per cent. Then last Thursday night it announced: 
Education programs have been more rigorously pruned than on any other previous occasion. 
There is no need to inquire into who will suffer. It will be the secondary school students and students at colleges of advanced education and technical institutions. Every action this Government takes has the effect of reinforcing the existing unequal distribution of wealth and privilege. This, like the report of the Williams inquiry, will ensure that the universities remain unscathed while the poor, the disadvantaged and those most dependent on government secondary and technical education will suffer. Some 80 per cent of all Australians have no post secondary qualification. To begin with, a lower level of educational attainment is one of the most significant characteristics of the unemployed, and particularly unemployed youth. In May 1976, 57 per cent of all unemployed persons had left school at or below the age of 1 5 years. Some 46 per cent of all unemployed youth who had left school between 1971 and 1976 were classed as early school leavers. The 1 976 survey gives further evidence of this correlation. The unemployed rate in Australia of young people who left school at 14 years of age during the period 1971 to 1976 was 24 per cent. The unemployment rate was 13.1 per cent for those who left school at 15 years of age during that period. 
The Prime Minister is always keen, when looking for scapegoats to blame for high levels of youth unemployment, to attack the educational system. The Williams inquiry quite specifically rejected this ridiculous notion. It stated: 
The education systems have no control over the labour market and they cannot by themselves correct the social problems which derive from unemployment or underemployment caused by economic policy and economic circumstances. 
However, if this Government continues with its policy of redistributing funds away from the needy schools to wealthy private schools, if it continues to downgrade the importance of training and retraining for the unemployed and those workers locked into unproductive and unsatisfactory work environments, the inequality of educational, economic and social opportunities will grow. 
This Government refuses to engage in job creation because it panders to the ideological whims of the Prime Minister. It prefers the soft option of income support through pathetic levels of unemployment benefit. It is inflicting a social scar which other western nations would never tolerate. It pretends that the unemployed live the idyllic existence of a millionaire Prime Minister. It is prepared to accept the immense loss of national output which results from people being unemployed. Fraserism is a recipe for social and economic disaster. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the former  Chairman  of the Public Service Board,  Mr K.  C. O. Shann, in 'Committee for Economic Development of Australia Growth', No. 30, September 1978, page 21, that a program for the installation of automatic typewriters and the current generation of word processing units, where it is possible to link several keyboards with visual display units to a central piece of electronic equipment, is well advanced and that a broad measure of their significance for cost saving is that the operator of a word processing unit can' produce about 5 times the amount of work of a typist with an ordinary typewriter. 
If so, (a) how many of these units have been installed by (i) Commonwealth departments and (ii) Commonwealth statutory corporations, (b) what is the estimated number of typists replaced by these units, (c) how many of these units will be installed during 1978-79 in all (i) Commonwealth departments and (ii) Commonwealth statutory corporations and (d) what is the expected number of typists who will be replaced during 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
How many junior (a) females and (b) males were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed as at 3 1 January in each year since 1 975. 
) What categories of work were they registered for. 
How many unfilled junior (a) female and (b) male vacancies were registered with the Service as at 3 1 January in each year since 1975. 
In what categories were the vacancies registered. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) What is the anticipated cost of the overseas training study mission by members of the National Training Council announced by mm on 3 March 1979. 
In which division of his Department is  Mr K.  J. Fitzgerald, the mission leader, a First Assistant Secretary. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
What sum will the Government spend on the advertising campaign to encourage employers to employ Special Youth Employment Training Program trainees as announced by him on 29 April 1979. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to his statement in Perth that he would smarten up. I ask: Is that statement just another Fraser promise? 
-The Coal Industry Amendment Bill 1979 is a formal piece of legislation which formalises that agreement reached between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government whereby the person who constitutes the Coal Industry Tribunal dealing with the coal industry of New South Wales and Queensland is able to be seconded to either the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to the Industrial Commission of New South Wales. The Opposition does not contemplate that that would happen frequently, but there should be no objection to that person being seconded to either of those tribunals should his position in the coal industry be such that he is not required in it. This was the practice with  Mr Gallagher,  the person previously constituting the Tribunal, but at that time the legislation named him and this did not allow for a flow-on to other people who would hold the position. This amending Bill does. Complementary legislation will be passed in New South Wales. This Bill has the support of the Opposition. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence in relation to this matter. We are being ruled out of order as a result of directing questions to either the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). Mr Speaker,  you can see from the process of Parliament over the last two years that these matters are coming out very painfully, bit by bit. The situation will not be helped if we are to be frustrated in questioning the Minister about some of these affairs. He now takes the course of reading out what he thinks is to his benefit. 
I am sorry about being an idiot. 
I am sorry about that. 
-Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the amendment brought in by the Government, we have some things to say about it. The amendment deals with the fact that since late last year the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has been split. This is a matter to which we on this side of the House object. As soon as the people of Australia re-elect a Labor government, that will become one department. I must say that the only reason why the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was split, which is apparent to honourable members on this side of the 
House, is that the then Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in making a statement to the House in September of last year, for the first time gave the people of Australia some idea of the crisis of unemployment with which we were living and some idea of the great difficulties of unemployment with which we were going to be confronted in the next five to 10 years. It seems to us that the truth in the statement made by  Mr Street  last September was too much for the Government. It is not something of which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is- terribly fond. Later we found that a new Department of Employment and Youth Affairs was established, separate from the Department of Industrial Relations. There was no necessity or justification for this. Obviously a Labor government will reunite the two departments. 
In addition to that, we give recognition to the enormously important role played by the National Labour Consultative Council. In dealing with industrial relations in this country there are perhaps few bodies that play a more important role in trying to unravel the difficulties that arise between employees, employers and government. In no other body in this country do more superior people from each of those bodies discuss the matters that come before them. We give recognition to the importance of this mechanism. I must say to the Government that it is a fool 's errand to send any Minister, whether it be the Minister for Industrial Relations, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs or the Minister for Productivity, into a forum such as the NLCC and expect that the people representing organised labour in this country will compromise their position as the representatives of organised labour by buying some of the crazy ideas put forward by this Government for settling industrial disputes. One need only point to the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act or the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Act in order to show where the Government has created a vacuum in dealing with its own employees as far as industrial relations are concerned. 
When these matters were before the Parliament,  speaker  after  speaker  from the Government side said that these measures were welcomed by public servants and that these measures were looked upon as being favourable to the Public Service. The whole emphasis of the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill was given over to optional early retirement at 55 years of age and not to the early forced sacking of any public servant in this country. We warned the Government thenduring the recess that we have just been through we have been proved so right- that the Public Service overwhelmingly is not prepared to accept those measures. That could have been sorted out in the NLCC. It is my opinion that, left to his own devices, the Minister would have sorted out those measures in the NLCC; but there is another demon at work in this Government, namely, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He has to have a confrontation with the trade union movement. In his last national broadcast, which we were urged to witness on national television, he told us that all the problems of this country belonged to and rested on the shoulders of the trade union movement. 
In all the problems that this country faces he finds as his only foe the trade union movement. So we have legislation such as that to which I have referred in order to harass and provoke the public servants and perhaps to politicise the Public Service of this country. That type of legislation will not work. Had the Minister for Industrial Relations and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)-  if the Treasurer had had the time- gone to the NLCC to discuss what ought to be the wages policy in this country, they would have known that they were wasting their time in going to the conference on wage indexation to put forward the foolhardy idea of automatic indexation adjustments with discounting of all government charges. There are two features of this to which I wish to refer. One is that the Government has already made decisions which are now costing every person in Australia a great deal of his income. These are the decisions on petrol prices and the health insurance scheme which is about to commence. These are not charges which wage and salary earners can ignore. They are not amounts of money making up a part of the standard of living which the working people of this country are prepared to sacrifice. 
Speaking to the point of order,  Mr Deputy  Speaker: I am referring exclusively to the role of the NLCC, and that is what the Bill refers to. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) What changes were made to the Special Youth Employment Training Program guidelines in 1 978. 
How much of the expenditure on the Program was being used by employers as a subsidy for labour that they would have normally employed at their own expense. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
1 ) condemns the Government for deliberately increasing the number of unemployed people in Australia, 
calls upon the Government to allocate sufficient funds to enable programs to commence immediately, to increase job and training opportunities for the young unemployed and to make subsidies available direct to employers in order that family heads and elderly workers can be kept in employment, and 
notes the call by Australia's Catholic Bishops, the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Victorian Minister,  Mr Dixon,  that the Government 's present assistance to the unemployed of Australia is grossly inadequate. 
-I move: That this House- 
1 ) condemns the Government for deliberately increasing the number of unemployed people in Australia; 
calls upon the Government to allocate sufficient funds to enable programs to commence immediately, to increase job and training opportunities for the young unemployed and to make subsidies available direct to employers in order that family heads and elderly workers can be kept in employment, and 
notes the call by Australia's Catholic bishops, the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Victorian Minister,  Mr Dixon,  that the Government's present assistance to the unemployed of Australia is grossly inadequate. 
It is said that governments can be judged by the way in which they care for the disadvantaged people in the community. By that criterion this Government would have to be described as a vulgar government. Its vulgarity in its attitude towards the unemployed people in this country is matched only by its unashamed incompetence in dealing with the complexities of unemployment throughout this country. Not one member of this Parliament represents a district, a constituency, a region, a city, a country town or a regional centre that is not affected by the crisis of unemployment in Australia. Not one honourable member does not share the experience of having unemployed people of all ages, of both sexes, black and white, coming into his office seeking assistance to find employment in this country. 
We have lived with this Government for almost four years. Its only achievement has been to popularise with the conservative element of this country a charge that everybody who does not work is a dole bludger. For four years we have lived with a government that has tried to convince and persuade the Australian people that being paid $5 1 a week is too much. For four years we have lived with a government that has left the unemployment benefit rate for the under 18-year-olds at $36. We have lived with a government that believes that parents ought to take all the financial burden and moral responsibility for those people whom this Government has put out of employment. For four years we have lived with a government that has burnt the unemployed at the altar of inflation. 
The only time this issue is debated in the Parliament is when the Australian Labor Party proposes a motion like that which I have moved today. For four years there has been a reluctance by this Government to recognise the problem in our midst. For four years it has tried to keep debate on this subject out of the House. For four years it has denied requests to set up committees of inquiry to look at the problems and complexities of unemployment. For four years the Government has done nothing. Last week or the week before the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  told us that perhaps he raised expectations too high in some of the things that he said. He did not raise expectations too high on the question of unemployment; he told lies. It is as simple as that. 
-I direct a question to the Treasurer. I draw his attention to the fact that the appropriations for unemployment benefits in last year's Budget were $126m underestimated. They went up from $784m appropriated to $9 10m which the Government required to spend. In reaching the figure of $998m for unemployment benefits this year, will he inform the House as to the advice he received in regard to the total number of people who will be registered as unemployed when unemployment peaks in the figures released in February 1980, and the number of people who will be beneficiaries of social security payments? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Is he able to say what provisions were made to subsidise electoral expenses and control electoral donations in the elections to the European Parliament held in June 1 979. 
I direct to the Treasurer a question which is supplementary to the very colourful answer given by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs regarding job opportunities in Australia. Is it a fact that the Budget statements indicate an increase in unemployment of around one per cent of the work force or some 60,000 people in this financial year? If so, will this increase give Australia the highest number of unemployed in our history, including the level at the height of the Great Depression? With unemployment at this level, why has the Government chosen to cut back heavily on its job training programs, including the Special Youth Employment Training Program which it initiated? Why has the Government decided to increase the migrant intake to 87,000 in 1979-80 thereby relegating even more migrants to the dole queues? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, normally one would agree to the suspension of the sitting in such circumstances but the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  always seeks to be able to speak right to the limit so that nobody has the opportunity to reply. When one looks at the pained faces of those honourable members who are forced to come into the chamber and to sit and listen to him, it is easy to understand why fewer than three out of ten people in this country approve of the way the Prime Minister is doing his job. Seven out of ten people disapprove of the way the Prime Minister is doing his job. After listening to his speech on the Budget I think that only two out of ten people will approve of the way he is doing his job. He spent a great deal of his time telling us what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said in 1975. Let me remind the Prime Minister of what he said in 1 975. 1 do not need newspapers, Budget Speeches or policy speeches to remind me of what you said because everybody in Australia recalls what you said. You talked tonight about there being no wages policy. In your December - 
-As is the tactic of the Government, the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  began his statement on industrial relations at 26 minutes to 6 o'clock, so that there was no possible opportunity of replying immediately to it. This is what all Ministers are doing now, in the hope that they can receive some media coverage in the break between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m., when we have to make our reply from this side of the House. We will have to look seriously at giving Ministers leave to make these statements if they continually abuse the privilege by making their statements at a time when the Opposition does not have the right of immediate reply. It is not good enough that we should be replying two hours later. 
The Minister made great play of the point that this was an extremely important statement on behalf of the Government; that industrial relations was indeed in the forefront of the Government's economic policies in terms of solving the problems with which we are now confronted. This is the first statement on industrial relations for about three years. It is the first statement on industrial relations since the 1977 elections. So much for the importance of industrial relations as far as this Government is concerned. On each occasion on which we have asked the Government to have this matter debated in the Parliament- whether it be on wages, strikes, days lost, or any other aspects of the application of the bad laws which this Government has introduced- it has refused us the right to do so. It is clear that, because of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress which is being conducted in Melbourne during this week, the Government finds it convenient for the Minister to make a statement. The Government does not see industrial relations as being important. What it does see as being important is its hope that it can continue to provoke and confront the trade union movement of this country in order to give it some sort of political advantage at any forthcoming election. The Government hopes that it can bring about disruption in the work place by its stupid and erratic policies which somehow will bring about a confrontation between employers and employees. This Government has a rat-bag policy on industrial relations, and always has had. 
Further, there is no question at all in my mind that this speech was not written in the Department of Industrial Relations. This speech was written in the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser). It was merely handed over to the Minister for Industrial Relations to read out. The Prime Minister is the person who sees confrontation as being of some political advantage to him and he continually uses it. If one looks through the 13 'A pages of this statement on industrial relations, it is incredible that one sees the accusation that the Labor Party is one-sided, that it speaks on behalf of the trade union movement or the wage and salary earners of this country, but it does not look after, protect or stand up for the rights of employers. I ask all honourable members to look at this statement thoroughly and to see whether they can find one word, one sentence or one paragraph which in any way could be said to be critical of employers. 
This statement merely condemns the trade union movement and people outside the organised trade union movement who are seeking to maintain their standard of living. It condemns them out of hand for the actions they may have taken, or may predictably have said they are going to take in the near future. This is not an even-handed statement on industrial relations. This is adding fuel to the fire for the confrontation between employers and employees which this Government wants so badly. If the Government can reach a crisis point or a flash-point in industrial relations, our good friend the Prime Minister may have sufficient reason to call another Federal election. This is the most hamfisted statement on industrial relations that I have ever heard in this Parliament, at industrial relations seminars, at trade union conferences, or at employer conferences. It ought to be condemned out of hand, as so many of the Government policies are. 
Further to my point about the Government's being one-sided in its attitude towards industrial relations, I ask honourable members opposite, and particularly the Minister, to explain why we on this side of the House, representing the Labor Party, are continually invited to speak to employer and employee groups on industrial relations, but people from the Government front bench are never invited to talk to employee groups on industrial relations. Last week I spoke to a very major group of employers in New South Wales. Today I spoke to the ACTU Congress. The week after next I will be talking to another major group of employers in New South Wales. Right across the board, groups involved in industrial relations have on hand invitations to people from the Labor Party to come and speak on this subject. 
Why was not the Government asked to present its views to the ACTU Congress? This year the ACTU Congress took on a new air of importance. It does not consist of just the affiliates that were represented at the last congress; now the amalgamation of the salaried personnel with the ACTU gives it a combined affiliated membership of something like  2lA  million men and women of this country. But no Government spokesman is asked to go to the Congress, and honourable members opposite know why the Government is not invited. It is because the Government has no credibility with the working people of this country and because the people who represent those working people do not believe anything that the Government says. So why ask the Minister for Industrial Relations or the Prime Minister to speak at the Congress? They are just rejected out of hand. That is not the case with the invitations that flow to the Labor Party from employer groups. The allegation that we in the Labor Party are one-sided in our view on industrial relations does not stand up to the scrutiny of those two criteria. The fact that the major congress of the working people of this country can be held for a week and not one Government spokesman is invited to attend and express a view gives some idea of the extent to which these people are rejected. 
The Government does not want to accept the role of industrial relations in this country- to minimise disputation, to see that we can have peace in the work place, to understand the pressures as they build up and to try to avoid the crises as they become predictable within industry. That is the way in which industrial relations ought to be looked upon in this country. Because of the Prime Minister and because of his wanting to get some value out of a crisis in industrial relations, the proper aim of this Government on real industrial relations is swept under the carpet and is replaced by this confrontation. 
The Minister claimed this afternoon that we had seen a substantial improvement in industrial relations in Australia in the last four years. How can he suggest that there is an improvement in industrial relations and justify that from his own statement? A real contradiction is inherent in the statement. This Minister cannot say on one hand that we have a crisis because John Halfpenny made a speech at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress and tell us on the other hand that industrial relations have improved. He cannot have it both ways. Of course, the statement by the Minister peaked in stupidity when he said on the one hand that industrial relations had improved and on the other hand that industrial relations were being used to get Australia out of the economic and industrial morass which the Whitlam Government had created. 
If one looks at the economic indicators that are so widely used by this Government, how can one say that we are out of the mess? Do the figures of 10 per cent inflation and 400,000 unemployed show that we are out of the mess? Is that how the Government interprets being out of the economic mess? According to the Budget, the predictions for the next financial year are even worse. So, how is the mechanism of industrial relations being used? The flashpoint in industrial relations in Australia at the moment is wages- how people are going to protect their standards of living. We are talking about people who may be earning $5,000 a year, $7,000 a year, $10,000 a year or $15,000 a year. They are all concerned about maintaining their standards of living. They are all very concerned about what is going to occur. What policies have cut across what confidence they may have had in this Government's use of the instrument of industrial relations? Firstly, from this month onwards for the first time in the  Vh  years since this government came to power people will find that they are paying the highest fees they have ever paid in Australia for health insurance. They will be paying more than they have ever paid in their lifetime, and they do not know what will happen in the future. They do not know what is going to occur. We can expect next year that health insurance costs will go up again when the Government changes the $20 limit on medical fees or the provision of free accommodation in public wards in hospitals. 
The other matter which cuts across any confidence in real and proper industrial relations in this country is wrapped up in government promises about tax indexation. No one in the community- honourable members opposite would know this- is falling for the three card trick and believing that there will be a substantial drop in the tax burden as from 1 December. Everybody in the community knows that people will be paying more tax. Everybody in the community knows that, as a result of Government policies, real wages will go down over the next year. In addition, we have the Government's policy, which was not mentioned in 1975 or 1 977, to take Australian prices for crude oil to world parity. Of course, that is a substantial financial burden on the wage and salary earners of this country. It is little wonder that all the ties that have been told by this Government about what it would do and what it would not do for the working people of this country - 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June1979: 
) Which companies in each State receiving wage subsidies have received (a) more than $20,000 but less than $50,000, (b) more than $50,000 but less than $80,000, (c) more than $80,000 but less than $100,000 and (d) more than $100,000 since the inception of the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
How many persons were being trained under the National Employment and Training scheme in (a) Australia, and (b) each of the States as at (i) 30 April and (ii) 31 May 1979. 
How many trainees were classified as (i) formal NEAT trainees and (ii) on-the-job (normal and SYETP) trainees as at the same dates. 
What percentage of the Labour force do these classifications represent. 
What is the anticipated cost of staging the National Youth Conference and what sums will be spent on ( a ) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) publicity. 
How many persons will attend the Conference, what criteria will be used to determine the eligibility of participants and how many unemployed young persons will attend. 
What criteria will be used to select persons attending the Conference. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What is the distribution of Aboriginals registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service by (a) adult and (b) junior status and (i) metropolitan and (ii) non-metropolitan location. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I think the Opposition can accommodate this motion without too many problems. I want to say a few words on this but I think I should move the amendment in the following form: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring) be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst endorsing the principle of estimates committees, the House is of the opinion that the manner of their implementation should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee.' 
In that way we can - 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, in the opinion of this House, recognising that in Western Australia there are 68 registered unemployed young persons for every available vacancy, in South Australia 62, in Queensland 5 1, in Tasmania and the Northern Territory 45, in Victoria 32 and in New South Wales 3 1 , the Federal Government should provide financial assistance to State and local government for youth job creation, training and retraining schemes. 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to the statement in September of last year by the then Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in which he said that if jobs were created at the rate of 130,000 a year unemployment could be down to 4.5 per cent of the total work force by 1983. Does the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs still adhere to that departmental advice? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, recognising that: 
1 ) For persons aged55 years and over who show up in the June labour force survey, the average period of unemployment is 47 weeks; 
For persons aged 45 to 54 the average period of unemployment is 44 weeks; and 
For persons 35 to 45 the average duration of unemployment is 34 weeks; and asserting that the lengthening period of unemployment for family heads has repercussions in social costs for which Australia will pay over the next generation, is of the opinion that the Federal Government should provide financial assistance to State and local government for adult job creation, training and retraining schemes. 
-I refer the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to his statements of December last year and January of this year when he stated: 
Get off your tails and start hunting for jobs because the Government is not going to hand them to you. 
Further, he stated: 
To make work and work generating initiatives fashionable to them, a real impact will have to be made on the cool young to whom dole bludging is a bit of a joke rather than something to be overcome if humanly possible. 
Is this the philosophy behind and the reason for the Government's decision to slash the Budget appropriation for the Special Youth Employment Training Program by $5 5m or 69 per cent? 

 -Mr Speaker, as you know, a week in politics is a long time. A week ago it did not seem possible that we would reach this stage with this matter. The Opposition welcomes the opportunity to experiment with the Estimates committees. We have reached some understanding as to how they will operate. That was not available to us prior to the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee yesterday. We led a very powerful delegation to it and were able to persuade those present that perhaps the Opposition had some right to have some say in these matters. 
It appears that the committees will be able to give a great deal more time to scrutinising the Estimates than was possible in the Committee of the Whole. In fact, some people have suggested that the way in which the estimates were dealt with in debates previously was really a bit of a joke, given the role of the Senate and the longwinded second reading debate that took place on the Budget. This will give us a more specific opportunity to question Ministers and perhaps get answers from the bureaucracy than was previously available to us. 
I do not underestimate the ability of my colleagues on both sides of the Senate, but I think we have a fair bit of talent in this House as well. We should be given the opportunity to compete with them. As I said yesterday, I think it is more the responsibility of this House than of the Senate to carry out this task. I do not know that  Sir John  Kerr would agree with me, but that is the point of view I hold. 
I think that the manner in which we have been able to resolve this matter in that the two committees will meet over the period from next Tuesday to the third week in October and both committees will be dealing with no more than two departments per day with the time allocated and the times for the meetings being placed on the daily program each morning gives all members of the House an excellent opportunity to be able to arrange their day- their party meetings, their House duties, et cetera- so that they can attend either as a member or observer at the meetings of the Estimates committees and see whether they work. I would urge those honourable members who do not intend to participate in the activities of either of the committees to go along to a meeting and see for themselves whether they are fruitful in the running of the House. I believe that the procedure of letting honourable members know what is to occur will be beneficial to them. The times set down for the committees to meet seems to be ample. According to advice received from the Government, the Committee of the Whole dealt with the Estimates last year for  21Vi  hours. On this occasion we are to have something like 46 hours, taking into account the time taken up by both committees in looking at the estimates. So ample time is being provided. 
One problem still to be discussed with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is the amount of time we will have to debate the committees' reports to the Committee of the Whole. We know that that is something that cannot be solved at the moment in terms of defining that time, but if the committees do not take up all the time that is allocated to them and if the Government continues as it has for the last four years with the policy of not having very important business dealt with by the House, we will be able to give proper discussion to the reports as they come back here. I hope that we can overcome that problem. 
Another matter which will have to be the subject of discussion between the Leader of the House and me is what is to be debated in the House when the Estimates committees meet. The Opposition has indicated that, if the Budget debate continues, it will have no objection to the Estimates committees meeting at the same time. We will have to play that by ear and see what legislation comes before the House. If we consider it to be of such importance and we want people readily on hand to come into the House to take part in debates, obviously we would not want the Estimates committees to meet at such a time. 
The Standing Orders Committee also took into account the fact that one of the committees may make approaches to meet outside the normal sitting hours of the House. I do not think that is likely. The attitude of most honourable members in this day and age, is that from Monday night to Friday morning is long enough to be in Canberra and we like to return to our electorates. Nevertheless, we have made provision for leave of the House to be given should a committee find it necessary to meet outside the normal sitting times of the House. I hope we have found a successful way in which to experiment with a little more reform of the House of Representatives. Reform of institutions of this nature is very slow. Nonetheless the Labor Party, as the party of reform, has moved quickly to accommodate the suggestion put to it by the Government. I hope that it will work out. I put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  that the Opposition feels that it would be in order for the Standing Orders Committee to review the operation of these committees. If we do run into problems, perhaps that Committee could meet again and do as it did yesterday, that is, overcome the objections of both sides. 
-Justice demands that some explanation be given by the Government of the affairs that have taken up so much time of the Parliament over the past two years. The people sitting in the galleries representing the Australian people demand to know from this Government what is going to happen. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
I second the motion. Australia will be at a standstill until this matter is cleared up. We demand an explanation from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who should stand up and defend himself in this Parliament. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
-This is the ultimate in hushing up the Opposition in its exposing of the absolute corruption of this Government. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
Why does the Minister for Primary Industry not get up and explain his actions? That is all we ask. 
-A little earlier in the day I asked the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who would be raising the matter of public importance. He said: Brown sugar'. I said: 'Whom do you call "brown sugar"?'. He said: 'The honourable member for St George'. I said: 'What do you mean by that'? He said: 'He is raw and unrefined'. Certainly, that is what we have heard tonight. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  has given forth with 15 minutes of absolute nonsense. Let us look at the terms of the matter of public importance. It refers to the necessity for the Government to reaffirm the rule of law. All afternoon we on this side of the House concerned ourselves with the law. Let us examine some of the comments that were made this afternoon about the telexes which came to this Parliament and which necessitated a look at the law. A report tabled today in the New South Wales Parliament alleges that a certain person in this House forged signatures on company statements and devised an elaborate system of transferring large sums of money between several family companies without the knowledge of his fellow directors. 
My intention is to draw an analogy between the standards set by this Government and the accusations made by the honourable member for St George about who upholds the law in this country. The fact is that when one refers to the more sensitive spots of this Government- the performance of some of its senior Ministers- all of a sudden the law is not that important; all of a sudden one can bypass the law. In this matter of public importance we are talking about the trade union movement. This is an area in which the Government wants to kick the can. It does not want to talk about anything else. That senior Ministers forge documents is no longer the business of the House. 
I do desist from making any mention of any member of this House, but it does make a mockery of the standards which this Government says it adheres to when on the one hand it initiates a debate about the trade union movement because of the inquiry being conducted by a former conciliation commissioner into the subcontract system of the building industry in New South Wales and calls upon the Government to reaffirm the law- whatever that means, insofar as the Federal Government is concerned- and on the other it does not take any notice of the law in some other aspect of its administration. I say to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the analogy has to be drawn. This Government does not stand for law and order. It stands for can kicking. It stands for deceit. It stands for dishonesty. It stands for all the worst features of the worst government that this country has ever seen. We will hear a lot more about this tomorrow. But let me go further on this matter. If the Government is serious about the matter which has been raised in New South Wales it would not have one of the most junior of its members, who is looked upon on his own side as being some sort of semi-ratbag, raising a matter of public importance about what is going on in New South Wales; it would have a Minister doing so. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What are the administrative costs of tightening the work test 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What have been the activities and achievements of the Task Group on Youth Affairs since the formation of his Department. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
What is the expected number of Special Youth Employment Training Program trainees in 1978-79, and what is the expected cost. 
I rise in support of the censure motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden.  Anybody who has listened to the debate to date will have to vote for  Mr Hayden  's censure motion.  Mr Fraser  was given 15 minutes to explain why he should not be censured. The censure motion is based on two things: Firstly,  Mr Fraser  's refusal to have this matter debated before, in the  2M  years since it was raised; and, secondly, the extent to which  Mr Fraser  was informed of the activities of  Mr Sinclair.  We have heard not one word from the lips of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to what he was informed about. Let me quote what the former Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said previously in this Parliament: 
Let me say to this House and to the people of Australia that from the moment these irregularities first appeared I reported them to the Prime Minister and to my own leader. 
That is  Mr Anthony- 
I told them of the nature and the manner in which I hoped to resolve them. 
Yet we have heard not one word from the Prime Minister as to what he was informed about. Was he informed of, and kept up to date with, all the moneys that had been misappropriated from the various companies, leaving aside the involvement of  Mr Sinclair?  Was he told of the benefits that went to  Mr Sinclair  from the activities of his late father? Was he told that the houses purchased for the Sinclair family in Canberra were actually bought with money misappropriated from the companies? Was not that sufficient reason to make the Prime Minister believe that he was getting deeper and deeper into trouble the longer he left the Minister on the front bench? 
The Prime Minister now says that he and this Government will not act on allegations. Will someone tell me why  Mr Lynch  is not the Treasurer today? Why were  Senator Withers  and  Mr Robinson  stood down, if it was not because of just allegations? Why did  Mr Robinson  have his good name besmirched? It was only because this Prime Minister acted on allegations; nothing more and nothing less. But in the present affairthe most serious scandal that this Parliament has seen, as described by the Leader of the Opposition- the Prime Minister is not moved. Was the Prime Minister informed that the 
Sinclair Pastoral Company received great monetary benefits from the activities of the late  Mr Sinclair?  Was the Prime Minister informed of these things? If he was informed, why did he not move? 
We are not concerned with the sarcasm that was used this morning by the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  against some of his fellow company directors. We have a good form of justice in this country and he has every opportunity to clear his name. What we are concerned about is that today the people of Australia have a much poorer opinion of this Parliament because of the activities of the Prime Minister. When each and every one of us walks down the street tomorrow, people will say: There goes one of those lousy politicians'. This is because of the actions of this Prime Minister. He was told  Vh  years ago what he had to do. At that time the right honourable member for New England told the people of Australia in an interview that he abided by the highest standards. If those matters contained in the Finnane report are the highest standards, some other things must be going on in this Government. 
What did the Prime Minister know? The crucial questions were put by the Leader of the Opposition. Did the right honourable member for New England tell the Prime Minister everything that he knew? If he did, why did the Prime Minister not tell the Parliament for 2Vi years? Had the action that was taken last night by the Prime Minister, in sacking the Minister for Primary Industry, been taken  2Vi  years ago, this matter would not have rated one word in the Parliament; but for 2Vi years we have attempted and have sought painstakingly to drag out every skerrick of information about the standards set by this Government. We have watched  Mr Lynch, Mr Robinson  and  Senator Withers  all go down the drain and have people look at them as if they are second class citizens. We have seen the Prime Minister treat the National Country Party as the senior coalition partner in this Government. All these things have been done by this Prime Minister, and honourable members opposite all sit there saying 'Hear, hear' when he speaks. I ask those honourable members opposite who want  Mr Sinclair  to come back into the Ministry to put up their hands.  Mr Speaker,  do you know why  Mr Killen  puts up his hand? The reason is that he does not want to go to London. That is why he put his hand up. He wants to stay on the front bench.  Mr Killen  does not want to be Australia's High Commissioner in London. They always say to beware of a man with hair on his face. But these are the sorts of standards being set by the 
Prime Minister. He says that the right honourable member for New England very graciously and righteously resigned last night. The right honourable member for New England has been aware of all of these things for 2V4 years. He did not resign last night; he was sacked. The Government need not call Peter Nixon Acting Deputy Leader of the National Country Party. You are there for good, Peter. Use the staff and the finance and all the goodies that go with the job, because you are not going to be shifted. Even poor little Ian Viner has crawled to the top of the class as Leader of the House. You are going to make it, Ian. 
There is one most crucial matter in relation to this whole affair which the Prime Minister cannot deny. He was questioned about it. It has nothing to do with the Finnane report, nothing to do with the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission, nothing to do with who is in the Labor Party, nothing to do with who is the Liberal Party, and nothing to do with the Taxation Office. We have told the Government time and time again that this matter involved dealings with the Taxation Officerebates paid on misappropriation of funds from this group of companies. The sole beneficiary of those rebates has been the right honourable member for New England. If that is not sufficient for the Prime Minister to say: 'You must stand down until all of this is cleared up', then what is? Under what circumstances in future can we expect action to be taken? 
This is the most incredible government. It consists of the most incredible lineup of people. They are the ones who told the people of Australia in 1975: 'We will give you a new standard '. We had not even had the election results before the poor Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  was in the Queanbeyan court answering a prima facie case of having bribed a candidate. That happened even before Christmas Day. Ever since then there has been one scandal after the other. We reached the climax yesterday. The Prime Minister says that until we have read the whole report it is improper to comment. I remind honourable members of the actions of the Prime Minister during the elections of 1977 when he made his off-the-cuff comments about the Royal Commission into Human Relationships. He had not read the report; he just found a couple of paragraphs with which he thought he might be able to denigrate the Labor Party. 
The Prime Minister acts in what he thinks are his own best interests.  His  own best interests are being served at the moment by treating members of the Liberal Party as second class citizens and trying to comfort the National Country Party. All honourable members opposite know that that is the reason the right honourable member for New England was not stood down earlier. That is the reason the Prime Minister cannot tell us what went on. No one else in the Parliament, other than the right honourable member for New England, seems to know. Perhaps the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  knows; the Prime Minister may know, but no one else does. What went on? What does the Prime Minister know? To what extent was he informed about the contents of the Finnane report? In what circumstances did he reach the decision that he could not take action against the right honourable member for New England? When the Minister for Industry and Commerce was laid up in bed during the 1977 elections he was sacked as Treasurer. 
What was the variation in circumstances which caused the Prime Minister to apply different standards in this case? We are not allowed to know the answer to that question. We are only members of parliament. We are not supposed to question these things. We just take at face value the Prime Minister's statement during the 1975 elections that we were getting a government of new standards. Brother, have we got a government of new standards! There has never been a government with standards like those of this one. Someone said the other day that it is the best government we have ever had because never have so many Ministers been cleared by the courts. Never have so many Ministers gone before the courts. Still it goes on. Who will be next? 
What will the Government tell the people next time it holds an election? It cannot talk about Medibank or jobs or indexation. All of those things have gone. Will it talk about the propriety of its Ministers? Who will be shifted overseas because he has a skeleton in his closet? The Prime Minister will not say a word. All he says is that the matter is being investigated by the New South Wales Government, so there is still some doubt hanging over the matter. I suspect that people might say, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that perhaps the decision of  Sir Garfield  Barwick in the Webster case ought to be queried. Is that the standard that the Prime Minister of Australia wants us to accept? Are we to look at the political colour of everybody who sits in justice in this country? Are we to say that the Minister for Defence can represent in the courts only members of the Liberal Party? 
The honourable member is casting aspersions. He is a member of a government of smear. The Government likes to smear everybody who does not suit it. Its members sat up until 2 o'clock this morning to force out the right honourable member for New England. That is something that should have been done years ago.  Mr Whitlam,  to his credit, said almost three years ago that the public will not tolerate the activities of the right honourable member for New England. How right he is. The public are disgusted. They are even more disgusted with us collectively and with the Prime Minister specifically because of his inaction during the period of almost three years in which this matter has been raised in the national Parliament. Nothing has happened in Australia: Ministers cannot do their work, they are being gathered in groups to decide what will happen, deputations of back benchers are going to see the Prime Minister, and members of the National Country Party are in a huddle. All of this is happening because of the actions of one man- the Prime Minister, not the right honourable member for New England. The Prime Minister refused to take action. The Leader of the Opposition asked: 'Is the Prime Minister telling the Parliament lies?' I know that  Mr Speaker  has very strong objection to the use of that word in the Parliament. I do not blame him; it is not altogether parliamentary. 
The Prime Minister should be given more time- we on this side of the chamber are quite prepared to give it; I speak on behalf of all my colleagues- to get up and tell us what he knows. He has 15 minutes in which to smear. Will he now inform the House what the right honourable member for New England told him over the last three years and will he tell us why he made a judgment on him different from that which he made on his senior colleagues, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Industry and Commerce and  Senator Withers.  That is all we want to know. Perhaps the Prime  Minister  can clear his name. By his actions he is really deserving of the censure of this Parliament. He has dragged the Parliament down into the mud. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
Did the Government reject 'A Proposal for Consultation with Youth ' made by the National Youth Council; if so, why; if not, what stage has been reached in the implementation of the proposal. 
) Does the Government have any proposals for a widely based consultation with young persons on issues of concern to young persons. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the agenda and what are the priorities for the activities ofthe Office of Youth Affairs during 1 979-80. 
Was any process of community consultation used in establishing that agenda and priorities, if so, what was it. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What are the details of additional funding for voluntary youth organisations and community youth groups as a consequence of the increased status of the Office of Youth Affairs since December 1978. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
What classifications of skilled tradesmen has the Government advertised overseas as being in short supply in Australia in each year since I97S. 
What has been the cost of advertising in each of these years and what has been the cost of bringing these tradesmen to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
How many persons have been assisted by the (a) National Employment and Training Scheme, (b) Community Youth Support Scheme, (c) Government's various apprenticeship schemes and (d) Education Program for Unemployed Youth, in each year since 1975. 
) What was the cost of these programs in each year. 
-We of the Opposition are totally opposed to this legislation. We see the legislation as very sinister and perhaps the ultimate linchpin to be used by this Government in calling any future snap Federal election because it has all the provisos necessary for the Government to interfere totally with the operations of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in complete ignorance of what is best for industrial relations in this country, and so bring about a confrontation from which the Government would hope to benefit politically at any given election. There can be no explanation for the changes in the legislation now before the House. Certainly none was given in the second reading speech of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  It was a very short speech and it gave no explanation of these very major changes to the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The changes are viewed with great suspicion not only by the Australian Labor Party but also by people outside this place whom I will name and who have gone as far as to say that some of the measures could be challenged and could prove to be quite unconstitutional as far as the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are concerned. 
With that in mind one can understand why the Government needed to keep secret as far as possible the measures contained in this legislation. It did that successfully because not only were the documents which gave the details of this legislation and which were handed out to members of the Government taken back by the Minister so that they could not be shown to anybody else but also at the National Labour Consultative Council- the tripartite body set up by this Government to discuss industrial relations legislation to come before this House- meeting at which this legislation was discussed only representatives of the employers were present. The Minister in his second reading speech said that it was unfortunate that the trade union movement was not present at the August meeting which discussed the measures contained in this Bill. However, that is insufficient reason to give to the Parliament of this country or the people who are involved in the day-to-day operations of industrial relations, whether they be from employer or employee organisations, being given absolutely no opportunity to discuss these measures. A the time the trade union movement was protesting about the Government's actions in respect of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act so it boycotted the meeting. 
The Minister should have persisted to ensure that everybody involved with these measures was given the opportunity to discuss them, but that was not the case. The only people who were present at the meeting which was held on 6 August were the Minister, his departmental officials,  Sir Samuel  Burston,  Mr Brunckhorst, Mr Kirby, Mr Polites,  representing the National Employers Policy Committee, and his advisers,  Mr Tregillis, Mr Watchorn, Mr Fry  and  Mr Noakes.  There was no voice at all from the trade union movement. Subsequently, it became a pretty happy club with the representatives of the employers and the Minister sitting down to say: Well, how can we go on and do a little more union bashing in this country? Have a look at the provisions that we propose to put into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act'. Of course, whilst there was some questioning as to the legality of these measures, by and large the employers said: Well, if it is going to make it tougher for the trade union movement, if you think you can get away with it, let us have a go '. The legislation has been brought in without the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian 
Government Employee Organisations sitting down with the Government to discuss it. 
The legislation is brought into this place in such a vague way that no one can readily understand the ramifications of the legislation and no one can give an interpretation of it. The Commission was not consulted, which I think was an insult to the Commission because a previous Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has told me that when he was intending to bring into the House legislation dealing with the Act he would always seek the opinion of the Commission. Some of the most experienced industrial relations people- whether they be in the commissioner or the presidential role- are members of the Arbitration Commission and their views should have been sought because we are dealing with legislation that cuts across all the traditional relationships between commissioner,  deputy president  and the  President  himself. But there is no explanation by the Minister in his second reading speech as to the effects of the proposed changes. 
The Bill has political overtones. One is suspicious of the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  now has in his own department a section to advise him on industrial relations. One is entitled to ask: Is this legislation the product of the Department of Industrial Relations or is it the brainchild of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet which by and large does not know anything about industrial relations? Why was the Government so keen to fix things up at the meeting that was held by the employers on 6 August- the partially attended meeting of the National Labour Consultative Council? The Minister has admitted that some of the measures included in this legislation are designed to overcome isolated instances. We are now debating in this Parliament legislation which has ramifications beyond anything this Parliament can expose. This legislation deals not with things that occur every day in the field of industrial relations but with instances that may occur once a year. That is the reason for altering the Act. We all know in this Parliament that the Act is hard enough to follow as it is. In fact, there is not a copy of the Act available for every member of this Parliament. Many members of Parliament who will be taking part in this debate will not have had the opportunity of even looking at an up-to-date copy of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That is the sort of mess that we find ourselves in when we come to a debate of this nature. 
The Opposition's objection is that there has been no consultation with half of the parties to industrial relations in this country- those units which represent organised labour in this country. These measures have been pushed through at a meeting between the Government and representatives of the employers. They will grossly undermine the role and the position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in such a way as to impede the Commission in fulfilling its statutory function of preventing and settling industrial disputes. It has to be kept in mind throughout this debate that the Commission exists constitutionally to settle and prevent industrial disputes. These measures will hinder the Commission in finding workable solutions to the industrial relations problems that may arise. The changes represent a continuation of the Government's foolish reliance on draconian sanctions rather than common sense and negotiations to settle industrial disputes. Whenever we have an industrial dispute in this country it is always the wish of this Government to crack the nut with a sledgehammer and to try to settle disputes in a tough way. 
Honourable members will see that one of the changes is directly related to the threats that were made by the Prime Minister in this House some months ago in relation to a dispute between Telecom Australia and the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association. At the time, when the Prime Minister made his threats, they fell on deaf ears because when the people sat down to negotiate one of the features of that settlement was something that the Prime Minister said would not happen. Now we have wholesale changes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to see that this sort of thing does not happen. This measure should not have been introduced into the Parliament until such time as a full meeting of the NLCC had been held and until such time as the Government had been able to give an interpretation of what these changes mean so that those people who will participate under the legislation know exactly how they will be involved. 
As I said, much has been said about these laws that ought to be looked at quite seriously.  Sir Richard  Kirby is known to everybody in this country who has been involved in industrial relations. No one is looked upon as being a greater authority on the question of industrial relations than  Sir Richard  Kirby. Let us look at his reaction to the measures that were introduced by this Government. In attacking the legislation generally, he said that it destroyed respect for the Commission in the eyes of all groups in the industrial process. He said: 
Industrial harmony and co-operation between workers and employers is not produced by legislation of this sort. You cannot achieve it by Draconian legislation or threats. 
Further, on  AM on  2 1 September, he said: 
More consultation and less confrontation, the better. 
He believes that by hobbling the Commission's powers, the Government had called into question the Commission's role as an arbiter. His attack on constitutional grounds was directed at the proposed bar on the Commission to order employers to make good wages lost during a strike. He said: 
The Constitution states that the Federal Government has powers to legislate for a Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to settle disputes of an interstate nature. Thus, an Arbitration Commission if it's to arbitrate, must be able to settle a problem based on the arguments before it 
You cannot tell the arbitrator beforehand what the result is going to be. 

 Sir Richard Kirby has made it quite clear that he believes that these laws may not be legal and, if they do turn out to be legal, if ever challenged, it may well be that they just cannot operate; that they will not work in the best interests of industrial relations; that they will hobble and undermine the respect in which the Commission is held; and that they will interfere greatly with the relationships that have been built up in the Commission itself. 
I turn now to some of the measures that are contained in this Bill. I want to deal firstly with proposed new section 22A, 'Commissioner to consult with Presidential Member before exercising certain powers'. The proposed new section reads: 
*22A.Where- 
a Commissioner proposes to make an award, or certify a memorandum of agreement, making provision for, or altering, the rates of wages or the conditions applicable in relation to employees in a particular industry or group of industries; and 
that industry or group of industries, as the case may be, has been assigned under sub-section ( I ) of section 23 to a panel of members of the Commission, the Commissioner shall, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of arrangement. whether or not he is a member of that panel, consult with the Presidential Member who is a member of that panel. 
That is the first major item which the Minister asks this Parliament to accept. I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that no one in this Parliament has had explained to him what the term 'consult' means. Does it mean that the people who are to be involved- the Commissioner and the  Deputy President-  have to sit right through the hearing, does it mean that the Commissioner merely gets a pat on the head for the work he has already done, or does it mean that the  Deputy President  can change the decision without listening to the case? The Parliament is entitled to ask the Minister those questions. 
This proposed new section will require a commissioner, before making or varying an award or certifying a memorandum of agreement with respect to wages or conditions, to consult with the presidential member assigned to the relevant panel. The requirement of consultation raises problems of a legal, industrial and constitutional nature, all of which illustrate that the proposed amendment is ill-conceived and ought to be withdrawn. The immediate difficulty arises as to what the requirement to 'consult' in proposed new section 22A entails. It would seem that consultation involves something more positive than a commissioner simply informing the presidential member of a decision. Whether, on the other hand, the presidential member must approve a decision before it may be handed down is not clear. What is clear is that the proposed section will lead to great uncertainty in the minds of members of the Commission and of the parties before the Commission about the consultation process and may lead to legal challenges to decisions handed down. Further, the proposed new section provides no guide as to what is to occur in a situation where, for example, there is a disagreement between a commissioner and a  deputy president.  Whose decision is to prevail? 
The requirement to consult will tend to undermine the existing authority of commissioners in the eyes of the parties appearing before them. This will make it more difficult for commissioners to perform their work of conciliating and arbitrating. Further, the knowledge that whatever decision a commissioner comes to is subject to the approval of a deputy president will tend to lower the confidence of parties in the conciliation and arbitration system and to make them sceptical about the value of participating in proceedings where the real judge is not even present to hear the arguments. I repeat: The real judge, if that is to be the role of the deputy president, will not even be present to listen to the arguments before the commissioner. Thus, he will be given the role of being able to make a decision over and above that of the commissioner. The requirement to consult will also fundamentally alter the existing relationships and work loads in the Commission and may promote disaffection amongst members especially since no clearly denned decision-making process is provided in proposed new section 22A. Further, depending upon how the requirement to consult is interpreted, the requirement may place a heavy work load on presidential members as they would need to examine fully the arguments and information put before the Commissioner in order to assess the proposed decision. 
There is also the question raised by  Sir Richard  Kirby- the constitutional problem. There is scope for arguing that proposed new section 22A is invalid for constitutional reasons. The Commonwealth Parliament has power to legislate with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of interstate industrial disputes. The High Court of Australia has held that conciliation and arbitration implies the existence of a tribunal, conciliator or arbitrator which conducts the conciliation and arbitration. Although the conciliator or arbitrator does not have to be present at every stage of the hearing of a dispute, he must at least be present at some stage. In the Boilermaker's case, R. v. Kirby ex parte Boilmakers Society of Australia as set out in 1956 Commonwealth Law Report No. 254,  Mr Justice  Taylor of the High Court said: 
The constitution therefore authorises Parliament to legislate for the establishment of a tribunal to which the parties to industrial disputes of the specified character are compelled to submit their differences and which, in the exercise of its arbitral functions, is bound to proceed, according to the principles of justice, to hear the parties and to determine the matters in dispute. 
It would seem, therefore, that the process of conciliation and arbitration contemplated by the Constitution involves the application of the principles of natural justice. In normal circumstances, natural justice requires that he who decides must also hear. In other words, the members of a tribunal who participate in a decision must have listened to the submissions and evidence. However, the requirements of natural justice are not fixed but vary according to all the circumstances. Whether the principles of natural justice which apply in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are offended by the requirement to consult as proposed in new section 22A will require determination by the High Court. 
The overall effect of proposed new section 22A is likely to impede the efficient and effective operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to jeopardise good industrial relations. It will create greater uncertainty both within and outside the Commission. Further, there are serious doubts about the constitutionality of the proposed new section. Clearly, it is in an unsatisfactory state and ought to be withdrawn altogether by the Government. 
The second proposed new section with which I wish to deal- section 2 5 A- relates to limitation on the powers of the Commission and states: 
The Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other action, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
As  Sir Richard  Kirby pointed out, this is telling the judge to make the decision before he hears the case.  Sir Richard  Kirby is right. It takes away from the Commission one of the powers it has in order to carry out its constitutional function of settling industrial disputes. The section provides that the Commission is not empowered to deal with any claim by employees for payment for time lost when those employees were engaged in industrial action. Under the present law claims for payment for wages lost during industrial action have been made on relatively few occasions in recent years. The Minister admitted to this at the meeting of the NLCC at which the trade unions were not present. He said that the instances of that decision having been made were very isolated. 
Where claims have been granted by the Commission it has been because the Commission has found that the industrial action was necessitated by the actions of the employer and that it would have been unfair to expect employees to bear the loss of wages involved. Thus, in the case of the Master Builders' Association and the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation, Commissioner Taylor ordered a company to make good the wages withheld from members of the union who were on strike because, firstly, the amenities were unsatisfactory and, secondly, the company had failed to abide by an agreement for the settlement of the dispute by private arbitration. In a further case of Hurst and the same union strike pay was awarded because the strike over the hazards caused by materials left lying around the building site was justified. In a recent decision in the case of Costain Australia Pty Ltd and the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia,  Mr Justice  Alley of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission commented that there was no proper basis for payment for time lost as a result of industrial action unless the actions of the employer were so extreme that the refusal to work was the only reasonable course left open to the employees. I refer the House to the causes of industrial disputation in 1978 taken from Catalogue No. 6322.0 of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Wages caused 5 1.8 per cent of industrial disputes; hours of work 1.5 per cent; leave, pensions, compensation provisions, et cetera, 1 .2 per cent; managerial policy was the cause of 25.6 per cent of all industrial disputes; and physical working conditions- this is another reason for the Commission granting strike paycaused 4.9 per cent of disputes. Industrial action in order to establish trade unionism in some places accounted for 4.4 per cent of disputes. Other reasons have caused 10.5 per cent of disputes. 
One can see the one-sided approach that this Government has to the question of strike pay. It is taking away from the Commission the right to grant back pay where the Commission has found the employer to be at fault. One quarter of all the disputes in this country is caused by bad managerial policy. The granting of strike pay occurs very rarely but it occurs too often for this Government. It has determined to tell the Commission that it will no longer have the prerogative to settle disputes by awarding strike pay. This amendment will not do away with the problem. What will happen when the plumbers and gasfitters, the builders' labourers, the metal workers, the wharfies, the miners or others go out on strike because of bad management and want their pay made up? One thing which will cause them to go back to work will be the settling of that argument. But the Government is taking from the Commission its rightful role in settling such disputes. It is saying to the parties involved- the employer and employee organisations- that they should settle the matter outside the Commission. 
Many of the measures contained in this legislation push the parties away from the traditional acceptance of conciliation and arbitration, the role which the Commission has played for so many years. Does the Government think that as a result of amending the Act trade union members will say when they have lost a week's work because of bad safety conditions prevailing on a building job that they do not want to be paid for it even though they lost the time because of bad management? The matter will be settled outside the court. No amendments to the Act will overcome that. As I have said, the number of these cases is so substantial that the Government should have been cognisant of that when it made its decision. If we want to trace the history of this amendment all we have to do is to remember the ravings of the Prime Minister during the Telecom dispute. He told us in the Parliamenthonourable members can look it up in  Hansardthat  for members of the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association who had been out in disputation over the technological change taking place in their industry, money lost was money lost. The Prime Minister told the people of Australia that anybody who had lost time and pay would not have it made up as one of the conditions of settlement of the dispute. But Justice Gaudron sat down on a Sunday with the parties involved and decided that 70 per cent of the workers involved in the dispute would receive their back pay. That was a fundamental reason why the dispute was settled. It was settled by the good offices of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the person who it put in charge of the dispute. 
These activities will continue outside the Commission but they should not. The Government is denigrating the role of the Commission by pushing parties outside it. There is no doubt in my mind that the Prime Minister at last has had his say in making good his threat of last year that people who go out on strike or who are involved in industrial action will lose their money. In some instances where cases have been before the court and where the Commission has made good any pay lost, 99.9 per cent of the work still has been done. A dispute may arise over a very small section of the work that has to be done in any given industry. The Commission rightfully has said that the employers would not bludge on the decision of the Commission if the work has been done. If the employers did not want the work done they had their alternatives. If they wanted the work done- 99.9 per cent of it is done anyway- they had a duty to see that pay was made up to the employees involved. 
Before concluding I want to deal with what I consider to be the most serious aspect of this legislation. I give notice to the Minister that we will debate all these clauses of the Bill at the Committee stage so that the Government can tell us then what it did not tell us in the second reading speech. The bureaucrats from the Department of Industrial Relations ought to brush up on their speech making prowess. The second reading speech of this Bill was dreadful if its authors were hoping that people involved in industrial relations would understand what the amendments meant. They did not go to any length to explain or to justify the proposed new section concerning deregistration. This is where the term 'draconian' used by  Sir Richard  Kirby comes into effect. For the Government to involve itself in determining the behaviour that a union will have to adopt in order to remain a registered party is something that no one involved in industrial relations could have imagined in his wildest dreams. The Government is taking away from the Commission its traditional role and giving itself the power, behind the cloak of the Governor-General in Executive Council, to determine the question of deregistration of unions. 
This does not replace the existing provisions; it is in addition to the deregistration powers which are already part of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
As I have said, under the new provisions the Minister alone has the power to seek a declaration which means that for the six months after that declaration the Government can lay down the standards for the operation and behaviour of a trade union. This can be determined not as a result of the actions of all the trade union members but as a result of the actions of only two or more members of that union. Some unions in this country have 160,000 members. If two or more of those members do anything which in the words of this amending Bill affects the safety, health or welfare of the people of this country a declaration can be sought from the Commission that if such behaviour occurs again within six months the union will be deregistered. The Government now will take that power into its own hands. That is why I say that this is the linchpin for an election. No union will tolerate this measure. The Minister does not interpret the word 'consult'. We can understand that, but when we look at the words used in the Bill we wonder what does not affect the health, safety and welfare of the people of this country. This Government has made some of the most disgusting decisions in the history of Australia. It took away the twice-yearly indexation of pensions. That affected the health and welfare of Australians but the Government does not interpret its action in that way. Everything that is done in this country affects the safety, health and welfare of people, but the Prime Minister wants to kick the trade union movement and use it as the last resort in order to stay Prime Minister of this country. That is what this draconian legislation is aimed at. That is the reason why it was shrouded in secrecy. That is the reason why the measure was pushed through the National Labour Consultative Council when the unions were not present. That is the reason why this Bill has been brought into the House so quickly before there could be any discussion on its provisions. As yet, we have not been given an explanation how the provisions of the legislation will apply. 
The Government did not have the decency to ask the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for its opinion on these measures. No doubt, privately, members of the Commission at all levels are making their voices heard about what they see as the impact of this legislation. One cannot make good laws by the manner in which this Bill has been presented to the Parliament. This measure will prove to be the avenue of greater confrontation in the field of industrial relations in this country. 
It may be that the Prime Minister will get some political advantage out of this legislation in the short term, but it will disrupt industrial relations enormously. I am shocked and surprised at the attitude of some of the employer representatives who collaborated with the Government at the NLCC meeting to push these measures through; they should have had more sense. As time will tell, the trade union movement will not be able to subscribe to the powers that the Government has given itself. Come the first challenge to the High Court that some sections of this Bill are unconstitutional, that challenge will prove to be correct. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
In view of the findings of ali official inquiries to 2 1 August 1979 what new evidence is before the Government which leads it to conclude that the work test needs to be tightened? 
I thought that the Minister would have been anxious to give some explanation - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What has happened to the review of the Community Youth Support Scheme guidelines in view of the fact that community consultations for the review were completed in 1978. 
-During the second reading debate, many members from this side raised the question of the application of clause 3 of this Bill. Clause 3 says: 22a. Where- 
a Commissioner proposes to make an award, or certify a memorandum of agreement, making provision for, or altering, the rates of wages or the conditions applicable in relation to employees in a particular industry or group of industries; and 
that industry or group of industries, as the case may be, has been assigned under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 23 to a panel of members of the Commission, the Commissioner shall, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of agreement, whether or not he is a member of that panel, consult with the Presidential Member who is a member of that panel. '. 
During the earlier debate, I raised the matter of the lack of any explanation in the second reading speech of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  as to how this was to apply. I also raised the need for the Minister to explain to us now what this consultation meant. Does it mean that the Commissioner is informing the  Deputy President  of the decision he has made? Is he seeking advice as to how the decision ought to be given? Does the  Deputy President  have an overriding say in the decision that has to be given. Does the  Deputy President  have to listen to the submissions being made by the parties to the case, or can he be empowered, under this section of the Bill, to make a decision on a case of which he has no hearing? Is the  Deputy President  to stand by on every case heard before a commissioner so that he is available to give instant advice or instant decision-making to any decision? 
I draw the attention of the Committee to the Minister's second reading speech on this most important aspect which is one of the most unexplained features of the Bill. The Minister said: 
The Bill proposes that a commissioner be required to consult with his deputy president before making or varying an award with respect to wages and conditions. There is a complex range of awards and registered agreements operating in Industries coming within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This very fact demands consistency of a principle in decision making within the Commission itself. Regrettably there have been some occasions when such consistency has been lacking. The consequences for the community have been very serious, both industrially and economically. The proposed consultative process is designed to provide greater co-ordination and consistency in decision making within the Commission. 
That is all that the Minister has put before the Parliament in support of a major change in the operations and the relationships between people serving in the Commission itself. Where does the Minister find justice for putting forward the argument that there has to be total consistency in the decisions being made by the Commission? Where is it said in the Act? Where has it been laid down by tradition that there has to be consistency in the decision-making of any of these people that are involved? Where are the decisions that have been so vital to the industrial welfare or the economy of this country which have so upset the Government that it has to introduce such a draconian measure? On behalf of the Parliament I ask the Minister, and I hope that he feels it is incumbent upon him to give us the answer: Does the consultation requirement mean that the  deputy president  can override the Commission? Does the  deputy president  have to listen to the case? Does he have to be aware of all the submissions that have been put before the commissioner before he has such an overriding decision-making role to play or will the commissioner merely inform the  deputy president  of the decision that he has taken? I also ask the Minister, in his reply in the Committee stage, to tell us whether he has had any feedback from the Commission as to its attitude on the operations of this clause? 
What would happen in the case of a deputy president not being available to consult, so called, with a commissioner? Does this provision mean that the deputy presidents have to be on hand to hear and to consult with a commissioner on every possible occasion a decision has to be made or does it mean that the Government is searching for consistency, in which case we could do away with most of the commissioners? All these questions must be answered by the Government before we can understand, or even get to first base in understanding, how this law will apply both in relation to the parties that appear before the commissioners and the law makers in the Parliament. 
If parties go before a commissioner knowing full well that somebody who is not there at the hearing can override the decision of the commissioner they must understand that they are wasting their time. If this legislation provides that a trade union can be granted a certain amount of money by a commissioner and that amount can be changed by the deputy president in favour of consistency and against the arguments that the commissioner has heard, obviously this Parliament is adopting a bad law. The only way justice can be seen to be done is if anybody making a decision- in the civil courts or the industrial arena- makes it on the basis of having heard both sides of the argument. For instance, in the case of a murder charge if someone were to suggest that a judge or jury making up their minds about whether a person is guilty or not guilty had to talk to somebody outside the court who had not heard the case before they could give their final decision there would be uproar in this Parliament. But the Parliament is adopting a law which leaves us in the dark as to the relationship between a commissioner and the deputy president after the commissioner has heard a case and made up his mind. 
If this provision means that the commissioner will write the deputy president a letter saying: This is what I have decided to do and I will announce it next Thursday' let the Government tell us. But if it means that the commissioner can expect a letter back from the deputy president saying: 'I have read your decision but here is my decision: You will reduce the amount you were going to award by 50 per cent' we are in a different ball game altogether. That would be totally objectionable to all the parties that go before the Commission, not just to the trade unions who may be upset by some of the decisions that may be given as a result of this clause. Be that as it may, the Minister's second reading speech is totally inadequate in the explanation of the ramifications of the clause. Before the debate continues further we ask the Minister to explain to us in detail and comprehensively exactly how the clause will apply once it is adopted. 
I will not delay the Committee for long, but so that it is clearly understood in this Parliament, I point out that all parties except the Government are opposed to this clause.  Mr Ray  Kirby and  Mr George  Polites both indicated at the National Labor Consultative Council meeting held in August to discuss this measure that they were opposed to it. They said that it would interfere with the appeal system because every decision of a commissioner would appear to be endorsed by a  deputy president.  It would also cause great disaffection between the members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. There can be no doubt from the reasons given to us by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and by the members of the Government Members Industrial Committee who have spoken on this measure, that the Government has absolutely no idea of how this clause will operate. They talk about the autonomy of the commissioner, but the fact that he has to speak to a  deputy president  gives the appearance that the  deputy president  will endorse every decision a commissioner makes. Perhaps members of the Commission will interpret the clause differently as a result of what has been said in this Parliament today and, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  has said, we will appear to be very sloppy law-makers indeed. As the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  says, the Commission has to interpret the clause because that is the way the Parliament deals with the legislation. The word 'consultation' has to be looked at in terms of explanations given in dictionaries so that the Commission can take its lead from that. I believe that members of the Commission, the employers and the trade unions are opposed to this clause. Everybody who contributes to or participates in industrial relations in this country, with the sole exception of the Government, is opposed to this clause. Therefore there is no doubt in my mind that for industrial relations it is a bad law. No proper explanation has been given to us by the Minister or by other speakers from the Government side of the chamber. We remain unconvinced, and opposed to the clause. 
-The Opposition is opposed to this clause which, in effect, seeks to take away from the power of the Commission. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  There is far too much audible conversation in the chamber coming particularly from my right side. Will honourable members please remain silent? 
The Opposition is opposed to this clause because it takes away from the Commission one of the powers that it has to solve industrial disputes. It has been said ad nauseam during this debate that the role of the Commission is to settle industrial disputes. The Government has seen fit to propose a new section 25A. The new section reads: 
The Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other anion, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is still far too much audible conversation, particularly from the Government benches. I ask honourable members to remain silent and to give the honourable member for Port Adelaide an opportunity to speak. The talk is coming particularly from the front bench of the Government side. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I cannot hear you. Should we continue after the suspension? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I think we may have to make that decision. 
Otherwise I am just wasting my time. I put this question to you seriously,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  should we continue after the suspension? Government members will not be here then. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Port Adelaide will proceed. If this problem persists, I may have to take a certain course. 
The Opposition is opposed to this proposed new section. It is of some interest to note that the National Labour Consultative Council when only the employers were present wholeheartedly endorsed this measure being enforced by the Government. Why would the employers not do that? The employers were acting in the best interests of the people whom they represent at the National Labour Consultative Council. But we are not talking about all the money that is lost by people who go on strike. We are talking about those quite rare decisions made by the Commission which, after hearing the evidence brought before it, decides that people in certain cases who have lost money as a result of bans or industrial disputation should have their pay made up. It has been pointed out that we are not talking solely about a total strike situation where somebody is out of work altogether. We are talking about a situation where that may be the case, but we are talking also about a situation where certain limitations or bans may be applied in work places where most of the work is being carried out. In both instances the Commission has seen fit to decide to resolve the industrial dispute. One of the measures that it has used is to decide that these people are entitled to some pay for money lost during the industrial disputation. 
As I pointed out yesterday, 25 per cent of industrial disputes recorded in this country in 1978 flowed from managerial policy. These industrial disputes were the fault of management. The building industry, which for many years was prone to a great deal of industrial hazards in relation to safety, was also strike prone as a result of the agitation taking place in the work place to improve safety. On many occasions, employers were virtually found guilty by the Commission of not having looked after their workers in regard to safety as these workers should have been looked after. Employers have been found guilty, so to say, by the Commission that they did not do all the things that were required of them and subsequently, they provoked the work force into taking the action, which may be called an industrial dispute or a strike or ban or limitation of work, in which case the Commission awarded the pay to them.  Sir Richard  Kirby says that it is ridiculous, if not unconstitutional, for the Government to take upon its shoulders the withdrawal of a power that the Commission has to settle industrial disputes. What the Government is saying, irrespective of the evidence that comes before the Commission, is that the Commission has no power to give back pay. 
As the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  pointed out at the National Labour Consultative Council, we are not talking about daily occurrences; in fact, we are talking about very rare occurrences. With respect to the occurrences to which the Government objects we are talking about really rare occurrences. But, if the Commission is to do its job as the Constitution lays down and as the Act interprets, how can the Government possibly justify drawing the teeth of the Commission and the ways in which it settles a dispute? There can be no doubt, as was pointed out during the debate, that this clause flows directly from the defeat suffered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last year during the Telecom dispute. He got on his feet in this Parliament and told us that the money that was lost by the Telecom employees over the technology dispute was money lost and would not be made up. Then the Commission, of course, reversed the Prime Minister's decision as was its right after it heard the case. It said that in 70 per cent of the cases where people had lost money Telecom was to make their pay up. The Prime Minister is not to be defeated. Even to the extent of hamstringing the Commission which is put there to do the job, this Prime Minister will go to any lengths. He would rather have an industrial dispute than have the Commission overturn the sentiments which he expresses in this Parliament. 

 Sir Richard Kirby quite rightly points out, I am sure that other speakers also will point this out during the debate, that quite possibly it is unconstitutional to do so. To say that someone should go before the umpire knowing already what the umpire's decision is going to be makes for an untenable situation for the parties to the Commission. 
The ridiculous feature of this clause is that one would have thought that the Government was overcoming its problems in this area, that once and for all there would be no strike pay made up in those rare occurrences where such a claim is made. Not at all. The most serious feature of this clause is that the parties to the Commission are going to be pushed outside the Commission. Our adherence to conciliation and arbitration is somewhat submerged by the fact that we are adopting a law in this Parliament which is going to push the parties that abide by the Commission 's decisions outside the Commission. 
As I said yesterday, is it seriously contemplated that anybody who goes on strike to improve the safety standards of a building site, a mine or a wharf, and loses a week's pay in trying to have the management or the employers improve the safety standards of that site, is not going to want, as part of the settlement of the return to work, his pay made up? Of course he will. If the Government closes off the avenue to the Commission employees will seek redress in what we call the jungle. They will just do it outside the Commission, and will do it directly with the employer. There can be no doubt that the employer will not be able to put up his hand and say: 'The Government has passed a law which forbids the Commission from making these decisions'. The unionist or the employee will say: 'I do not care what laws the Government passes. If it passes a bad law which forbids me to fight for better and more safe working conditions- or whatever the case may be- I am going to continue to fight for it and I am not going to go back to work on that site until my pay has been made up'. Obviously that is what the case is going to be. The clause that the Government writes into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to take away this power from the Commission is a very serious one. The only way that it can be justified is because the Commission itself- Justice Mary Gaudronoverturned the sentiments that were expressed by the Prime Minister in this House some months ago. There can be no other justification for it. 
I do not think the Minister would derive any satisfaction from the fact that George Polites, Ray Kirby and some of the other employer spokesmen in this country go to the National 
Labour Consultative Council and say: 'If we support you we might be able to save the employers some money'. Obviously that is what they are there to do. George Polites, a realist, knows what is going to happen. Instead of the Commission determining these matters we are pushing the parties outside the role of the Commission, back in between direct negotiations or collective bargaining between employer and employee. We undermine the role of the Commission. There is absolutely no justification for the provision. It ignores completely the complexities and the makeup as to why people go on strike in this country. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
It is unfortunate that the gag was applied to the debate on the previous clause. The idea behind going in to the Committee stage is to give the Minister the opportunity to give a further explanation of his second reading speech and to answer the questions raised by members of the Opposition as they speak in the Committee stage. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The private arrangements of the Committee are no business of the Chair. 
There were no such arrangements. The arrangements were that this Bill would be completed tonight. It is no good the Government trying to overprotect the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  He has to answer the questions that are being raised in the debate. When we were considering one of the most important clauses contained in this Bill more questions were asked than about most other clauses, but those questions were not answered by the Government because the gag was applied. I suspect that the same thing will continue to happen throughout the evening because the Government has no answers to some of these matters. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, we do not wish to overfacilitate the passing of this Bill. We understand what the Government can do with its numbers come 10.15p.m. or 10.30 p.m., but we want to be on record about what this Bill means and the type of law that we are passing in this House. We think it encumbent on some members opposite to understand what they are putting up their hands in favour of. Obviously, judging from the speech that was made in relation to clause 4 by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman),  Government supporters clearly do not understand what this Bill is about. Clause 4 is one of the least complex clauses in the legislation, but we have received no answers to our questions about it. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, employers and trade union representatives search the  Hansard  record tomorrow for the answers that ought to have been given by the Minister, they will find a vacuum. No answers were given. 
We are now dealing with clauses 5 to 14. Some of them relate to an amendment that was passed earlier in relation to the exercising of powers. Clauses 5 to 14 have degrees of importance. I will deal with one of the clauses and other members on this side will deal with the others although, I suppose, that again, there will be no explanations given by the Minister. I deal with clause 8 which provides for the inclusion in the Act of new section 34a. Proposed new section 34a deals with one specific matter in which the Commission was involved. We are writing a whole new law to overcome the predicament in which the Government- not the Commissionunhappily found itself earlier in the year. Proposed new section 34A reads in part: 
Where proceedings in relation to an alleged industrial dispute, or in relation to an industrial dispute, are before a member of the Commission other than the  President,  whether the proceedings are proceedings referred to in subsection ( 1 ) of section 24 or are proceedings by way of conciliation or arbitration, the  President  may, if he is of the opinion that there are special reasons that justify his so doing, direct that the proceedings be dealt with in accordance with this section. 
Again, no interpretation or explanation of these special reasons has been given by the Minister. No explanation has been given of the role that is expected to be played by the  President.  There has been no assurance that this clause will not interfere in a wholesale manner with the relationship between members of the Commission and the  President.  Obviously, further explanation ought to be given. These amendments will change the existing position in at least three ways. Firstly, they will allow the question of whether an industrial dispute exists to be the subject of a reference to a Full Bench. One would gather from that that the presidential members of the Commission were just sitting around waiting for something to do rather than carrying out the busy exercises that they undertake at the moment. Secondly, the amendments will allow the reference of an industrial dispute to a Full Bench at any stage of the conciliation and arbitration process. Thirdly, they will allow the  President  at any stage to withdraw a matter from an individual member of the Commission and to decide how the matter is to be dealt with. One can imagine parties appearing before a presidential member with whom they are not happy trying to get the ear of the  President  to take the matter out of the hands of his colleague. 
The fact that the Minister or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  may have been unhappy with the handling of one industrial dispute is not sufficient reason for us to change the whole of the law in relation to the role of the  President  and the relationship between the  President  and his colleagues on the Commission. How will the  President  justify taking over one case when he refuses to take over others? What will the special reasons be? Will the  President  be expected to make public his reasons for intervening and going over one of his colleagues in certain circumstances? Will his special reasons be subjected to public scrutiny? 
There are many objections to these proposed amendments. They will certainly undermine the existing authority of single members of the Commission and place a very heavy emphasis on Full Bench hearings. The emphasis on Full Bench hearings is both unnecessary and wasteful as many matters may be settled satisfactorily by- and some may be settled satisfactorily only by- single members of the Commission without the need for more formal proceedings before a Full Bench which, from the viewpoint of both parties and the community, are costly. The changes, and, proposed section 34A in particular, place an impossible work load on the  President  of the Commission. Under the proposed new section the  President  may be obliged in effect to monitor every case before the Commission in order to decide whether at any stage there are special reasons that justify his withdrawing a matter from a member of the Commission. 
I believe that this proposed amendment is an insult to members of the Commission. If we had some sort of industrial lunatic- I am sure that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  could name one- holding down the position of  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission we would have wholesale chaos if these powers were available to him. As I said earlier, we want to know whether the  President  is going to make public his special reasons for taking certain business out of the hands of one of his colleagues? If he is not, it may mean that the  President  will be subject to accusations that he has been canvassed or lobbied by a particular party appearing before his presidential colleague to take the case away from that colleague and take it over himself before a Full Bench. These questions ought to be answered by the Minister. I hope that they will be answered before the Government gags the debate on clauses 5 to 14, because again the second reading speech of the Minister gave insufficient clarification of the operations of many of these proposed new sections. 
It is a great pity that those of us who serve in this Parliament have allowed it to degenerate into the worst Parliament since Federation. There is less debate now on the laws being made in this chamber than at any other time in the history of this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I advise the honourable member to get on with the clause rather than to be provocative. I cannot protect the honourable member if he is going to be provocative. 
My remarks are relevant. We are passing very serious laws in this chamber. It is no wonder that people who have served in this chamber previously- the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  all of whom have been here for a long time- tell us that this is the worst Parliament for reviewing legislation that we have had in their lifetimes. That is true. It is a sad indictment on this Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Port Adelaide will resume his seat. 
That procedures, such as those we have taken tonight, are adopted by the Parliament because the Government has the numbers. 
No member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament . . . 
The words used by the honourable member for Port Adelaide are offensive against the House itself. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  There is no point of order. Will honourable members resume their seats. Before I call on the honourable member for Port Adelaide, I point out that when I ask him to resume his seat, I expect him to do so. 
In clauses 15 and 16 we are dealing with power which the Parliament is handing over to the Executive arm of government in this country and which is probably unconstitutional. It is not justified in any way by what the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has said. It has been criticised by such prominent people as  Sir Richard  Kirby. It is criticised by members of the Commission, by employers and by employee organisations. The vast majority of members of this Parliament do not have a clue what these clauses are all about. If the gag is moved in a few minutes' time, those members will march in here to vote but they will not know what they are doing. In a couple of months' time if the clauses we are now debating provoke a nationwide strike and Australia comes to a standstill because of actions taken by two or more Ministers acting with the GovernorGeneral in Executive Council, those honourable members will not know that they helped to pass the law which has been used to bring about that situation. 
The Government says that it is not satisfied with the deregistration provisions as they now apply. As they now apply the deregistration provisions call for a full judicial review before a decision on deregistration can be made. In this circumstance I ask honourable members opposite to read clauses 15 and 16 of the Bill to see what powers they are going to give the Excutive arm of government in this country. Proposed new section 143a. reads: 
1 ) Where, on application by the Minister,- so the Minister has the power in his own handsa Full Bench is satisfied that: 
an organization has been or is, or two or more members of an organization have been or are, engaged in industrial action; and 
the industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or of a part of the community, the Full Bench shall make a declaration that it is so satisfied and cause the declaration to be recorded in writing. 
As honourable members from this side of the House said yesterday, there will be very little opportunity or flexibility allowed to the Commission to do other than to offer the declaration that was required by the Minister. The real catch of this clause is: What happens once the declaration is issued? Proposed new section 143a. (2) reads: 
Where a declaration is made under sub-section ( I ) by a Full Bench in relation to an organization or members of an organization, the Governor-General may: 
at any time within the period of 6 months after the making of the declaration, by order in writing under his hand, direct the Registrar to cancel the registration of the organization; or 
at any time, or from time to time, within that period of 6 months, by order in writing, exercise any one or more of the following powers: 
Here is the bonding that we are reintroducing into industrial relations. It is a bonding system between a very reactionary conservative government and the employee organisations of this country. The clause continues: the power to suspend, to the extent specified in the order, any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the organization or of all or any of its members, as such members, under this Act or any other Act or under awards or determinations under this Act or under any other Act; the power to give directions as to the exercise of any rights, privileges or capacities that have been so suspended; 
A person may be democratically elected by any trade union, right wing, left wing, centre or whatever it may be, but the Government is giving itself the power over the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, over the judicial review of the deregistration processes which are now in order, to bring about total confrontation with the trade union movement in this country. The clause continues: the power to make provision for restricting the use of the funds or property of the organization or a branch of the organization and for the control of those funds or that property for the purpose of ensuring observance of the restrictions. 
There can be no question that if this clause is not unconstitutional, certainly then it is inoperable. It will be unacceptable. Could honourable members imagine what would happen if a union with 100,000 members has half a dozen members take action in a locality over which the central office or the State branch has very little capacity to override what they do. A declaration is made by the Commission to say that the health, welfare or safety is affected. That is a very wide scope. We cannot get anything wider than that. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said yesterday: 'Forget about the health and safety, just concentrate on welfare'. The interpretation of that is wide enough to see that the Commission must issue the declaration. Because of that action of a very small group out of a total membership of 100,000 or 150,000 members we find the Government giving itself the power to suspend a union offical, to freeze the union's funds, to suspend any of its activities, virtually to tell that union under a bonding system that for six months there will be no industrial confrontation and virtually to tell the employers involved in that industry: 'Take whatever action you like against these employees in this industry because if they take any action under the bond which we have set for their behaviour we are going to deregister them'. 
Who is going to operate under these bad laws? That is why I say it is relevant to push home to honourable members opposite the point that we should take cognisance of the laws which we are making in this Parliament so that we do not collectively denigrate ourselves in the eyes of the people who have served in this Parliament previously. This Bill contains bad laws. We have seen bad laws fought over in the streets of Australia previously. We saw it when the Government in the 1960s said that it would conscript young people. It developed a bad law and the people beat that law, not in this Parliament but outside the Parliament. We denigrate ourselves by making laws which people defeat outside. We should conduct a debate in this House without restriction before we allow laws of this nature to go through the House. The fact that we restrict debate makes it even worse. We do not give ourselves in this House of Representatives the same period for a sophisticated debate on these laws that the Senate would give. We treat ourselves as a secondary partner on laws of this nature. One can rest assured that when this Bill goes to the Senate, the senators will spend more time debating it than we will be allowed to spend debating it in this chamber. I ask honourable members to look at the clause and the powers that two Ministers, acting with the GovernorGeneral, are going to try and enforce on the trade union movement. 
I emphasise to members opposite, and quite proudly we should all say, that at least in this country we have a free trade union movement. We are not living in a totalitarian state. Overwhelmingly these unions subscribe to conciliation and arbitration. Overwhelmingly the people who operate in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have the respect of the people who operate from the employee and employer organisations. This law cuts across all that It will mean a loss of respect, not only for the Parliament because we have not understood fully the law that has been passed, but it will undermine the relationship between the Government and the trade union movement of this country. The Government would not dream of introducing, let alone implementing, laws of this nature against employer organisations. It shows its bias by the fact that the whole legislation is aimed at the trade union movement and not just, as the Minister or Government would have us believe, at one or two militant groups. How can any union keep control over its total membership? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether every Minister who has been dismissed or suspended from his Ministry has been treated in the same manner in relation to the availability to him of ministerial staff and the period for which he continues to receive his ministerial salary or ministerial expenses? 
With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker:  I would be somewhat reluctant to set a precedent that we would agree at any time to incorporate statutory declarations in  Hansard.  Such declarations could reflect on members or on circumstances to which we could object. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  showed me this statutory declaration before Question Time and I looked through it. It merely declares the position of the woman and her relationship with the Department of Immigration. Personally, I have no objection to its being incorporated in  Hansard,  but as I said, I should not like it to be thought that we were setting a precedent that we would agree at any time to a statutory declaration being incorporated in  Hansard at  the request of any member. 
Have you read it? 
You have granted leave but you have not read it? 
-I ask the Minister for Industrial Relations whether he received telexed advice relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill on 10 October and 1 1 October from 25 arbitration commissioners. Will the Minister table that advice? If not, why not? 
It was very interesting to hear again the second reading speech of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  but it did not throw any light on the new predicament which has arisen in Australia subsequent upon the legislation dealing with amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act being steamrolled through this chamber last Tuesday and Wednesday. I warned the Government that steamrolling bad laws through the House of Representatives would not go unnoticed in the community, and it has not. The people in the most important section of the community in that respect- the people who are actually involved in the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- have made their positions known. 
It is of great interest to know that the first piece of legislation that has come into this House dealing with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  set up his own unit on industrial relations has had to be such a draconian measure. Putting the Prime Minister of this country, John Malcolm Fraser, in charge of industrial relations, is like putting Frankenstein in charge of Medibank.  His  consideration for the welfare of the people, as far as this legislation is concerned, is nil. He has become the chief spokesman. Yesterday, and again today at Question Time, he let it be known to everybody concerned, everybody who was interested, that in no circumstances would any suggestion in terms of amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, which is now before the Senate, be taken into account. We can take it for granted that this Prime Minister is treating the Parliament with complete hypocrisy. Debate means nothing to this Prime Minister. Irrespective of what Government members say, the legislation that was brought into this House at the behest of the industrial relations unit in the Prime Minister's Department must go through in exactly the same form as it was presented here last Tuesday. The fact that no decent amount of time was made available for the legislation to be debated in this House means that the Government is severely embarrassed now that the commissioners and  deputy  presidents have made their position clear. 
I wish to refer to one incident in relation to the Government's stand since these criticisms were made known. I refer to last night's Australian Broadcasting Commission program  PM.  On that program,  Ms Julie  Flynn stated: 
The Government is confident that the legislation will stand up to a High Court challenge, and has dismissed  Mr Justice  Staples' criticisms by pointing out that he is a former member of the Communist Party. 
The Government's argument is to accuse anybody who criticises its legislation of having had some political leanings in the past that were contrary to the view of most people in Australia and to say that subsequently those criticisms cannot be taken into account. We lived with that attitude in the 1950s and 1960s and with this Prime Minister we have it returned at the end of the 1970s and it will be taken into the 1980s. I hope that every young person in this country realises what we are running back into with this Prime 
Minister- the principle that we defeat a person in argument by branding him a communist and in that way we do not have to listen to his criticisms or suggestions. 
The Minister said today that he did not release  Mr Justice  Staples' letter until PM had exposed the letter in its program last Thursday night. I ask the Minister to look carefully at the transcript of PM. I do not believe that  PM  had the document which was referred to by the Minister. I believe that they knew of the existence of the document but that they did not quote exactly from it. I believe that the Minister has made a very grave mistake in his relationship with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in releasing a document which was sent to him confidentially by a presidential member of the Commission. He deliberately and consciously sent that document to the Press in order to denigrate that person and then had members of the Government following it up by saying that the person who produced the document was a member of the Communist Party 30 or 40 years ago or whatever period it may have been. Talk about the old Nazi politics. 
Let us have a look at the traditional relationship between this Parliament and members of the Commission. We should remember that the vast majority of people who sit on the Commission either as presidential members or as commissioners were appointed by LiberalNational Country Party governments. In the case of commissioners, 20 out of 25 were appointed by Liberal-National Country Party governments. Twenty out of 25 commissioners who have protested to this Government about the legislation which was steamrolled through this Parliament were in fact appointed by a LiberalNational Country Party government. The overwhelming majority of presidential members were appointed by Liberal-National Country Party governments. They are the people who have criticised the Government as to the way in which this legislation has been drafted and the way in which it will affect the relationship between the Commission and the Government. The Government cannot say that 20 out of the 25 commissioners are communists or that the majority of presidential members are communists. Sooner or later someone in the Government will have enough guts to argue the criticisms that have been made of this legislation. Obviously, those who have made criticisms are entitled to do so because they are the people who will have to work under the legislation. 
If we look at the previous relationships that existed between governments and the Commission we find that under a series of Liberal 
Party Ministers-  Mr Harold  Holt,  Sir William  McMahon and  Mr Leslie  Bury- and under Labor Ministers,  Mr Clyde  Cameron and former  Senator James  McClelland, on every occasion when it was mooted that legislation affecting the Commission was to be introduced, the Commission was conferred with. People sat down and said: 'Look, here is the draft legislation that we have in mind. Have a look at it and give us your views'. There is no evidence at all that on this occasion the Government has conferred with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on these most draconian measures which interfere with the way in which the Commission deals with cases which come before it. The Minister shrugs and says: 'It is not unconstitutional. We have an opinion that says it is not unconstitutional'. 
What interpretation did the Government give to the person giving the opinion? Did the Government say to the person giving the opinion that 'consult' means that we merely tell the  deputy president  that we have made a decision, or did it say that 'consult' means that we will be at the behest of the  deputy president,  that the  deputy president  has power to change the decision without hearing the case? Much depends on the way in which the Government asks for the opinion and on what grounds it was based. That we do not know. I put it to honourable members that the relationship between the Government and the Commission is set up in the Constitution so there will be as little as possible political interference with its role. We have seen a government of this country defeated because it tried to dismantle the powers of the Commission and refer them back to the States. We know that with the judiciary it is important that there is no political interference, although one could have seen by the role of  Sir Garfield  Barwick in 1975- if people like to read his speech to the National Press Club subsequent upon that event- that  Sir Garfield  Barwick is not outside playing his own political role. So in those events the criticisms of  Mr Justice  Staples and the commissioners fall on very deaf ears. The Government is critical of the Staples letter.  Mr Justice  Staples said of what happened in New South Wales: 
In April 1 979, 26 judges of the New South Wales Supreme Court including the Chief Justice  Sir Laurence  Street signed a letter which was critical of a proposal by New South Wales Attorney-General  Mr Walker  to create a new Criminal Law Division in the Supreme Court. 
This letter was subsequently leaked to the Press and published. 
Of course, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the flagship of the establishment of this country, has a different standard when it is dealing with the criticisms of the Labor Government when compared with the criticisms of the Liberal Government because the  Sydney Morning Herald  in that case was very quick to jump on the bandwagon and to say what a terrible thing this was that the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr Frank  Walker, was doing. The paper gave front line headlines to this matter and then wrote an editorial about it. Today, of course, because the criticism is of a Liberal government- if one has a look at today's editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald-  it makes one think that this newspaper must release its leader writers out of Taronga Zoo every night so that they can write the leaders because they are so deficient of any commonsense in relation to the argument that is now before us. 
If time allowed one could go through the way in which this Government is trying to denigrate the role of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in this country. It wants the Commission to stay. It has not gone so far as to say that it wants to dismantle it completely. It wants a puppet. It wants a puppet both in the way the Commission deals with the wage cases and any other matter that comes before it. If we read through the pages and pages of rhetoric and criticism that the Government has made of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission we can see that the Government is terribly concerned that the Commission is, in fact, independent. The Government must, therefore, do something or take some action to interfere with that independence. In the Bill that is to come before the Senate- it is going to be steamrolled through the Senate according to the Prime Minister; it will be law in the next week or so- or in regard to the national wage cases, this Government is not prepared to see the traditional independence of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission maintained. We on this side of the House overwhelmingly want to see the independence of the Commission maintained, as do the people involved in industrial relations throughout Australia. The Government will be sorry for the day it interfered. 
It is incredible that honourable members opposite can say that it does not matter whether a file is kept by the security agents of this country. I suspect that many honourable members on the Opposition side of the Parliament have told of their experiences with the various security forces of this country since we began participating in the Labor movement. This goes back a number of years for all of us. But for honourable mem.benumber rs opposite to say that the fact that a security document may be kept on each one of us is not important because we do not have anything to hide seems to show a complete lack of understanding of what security forces are all about. Those opposite who say this sort of thing are completely ignorant of the role of the Central Intelligence Agency in such events as Watergate, its role in Vietnam, its role in Cambodia, the role of security, the way the CIA canvasses and lobbies politicians, and the way that the CIA keeps files on people. If this happens in the great democracy of the United States we can bet our lives that it happens here. 
It is terribly important for the Minister to know that a file is being kept on someone. I will tell honourable members why it is important. There must be some criteria for the security forces to keep a file on anybody. The fact that we move an amendment saying that the Minister must be informed if he makes a request for information is of vital importance. When the Premier of South Australia questioned the Special Branch of the South Australian police, he was told that files did not exist. In fact it came to light that some 40,000 files were kept by the Special Branch of the South Australian police. It said that it was working in cahoots with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It was working as an arm of ASIO. We were told by the then Commissioner,  Mr Salisbury,  that the Premier of the State was not entitled to the information he sought. 
As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said- and he has been here longer than anybody else- What right do we have to say that the Parliament, and the people who are serving it should not have this information? If the Minister cannot have this information as to whether files are kept, ASIO will keep files on everybody. It may be said that we have a good Director-General at present and that we need not be worried or that we have got nothing to hide. Who is going to be DirectorGeneral in five years time? What are the files to be used for? I will tell honourable members what the files are used for now. The files are used to stop the careers of people, whether in the Public Service or in the private sector. The files are used to embarrass people and are used for all sorts of purposes. There were used for blackmail when homosexuality was a bad word. That is the sort of thing that these security forces do. 
The Parliament has a right to say: 'You are answerable to Parliament'. Surely the honourable member for Hindmarsh is right about that. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  says: 'We have got nothing to hide so you can keep all the files on us that you like'. It would be quite a different story if the Labor Party were in government and the Liberal Party were in opposition, and the Labor Government said: 'We are going to keep files, take photographs and follow every member of the Liberal Party around Australia and get nice big dossiers on you. If you are a married man, do not step off the footpath because we will get a nice juicy photograph of you '. 
That is the sort of thing which will be done by the ASIO forces unless there is some restriction on their activities. Of course, there has been no restriction on their activities since 1949. That is why the Opposition says that there must be some benchmark for people keeping files on the citizens of Australia. The security organisation makes up its own mind. An honourable member may come into this Parliament and make a speech about some issue. ASIO is listening and says: 'Let us keep a file on him. That is dangerous stuff that he is saying in the Parliament'. An honourable member might stand up in the park and make a speech about rotten events such as those in Vietnam. ASIO will say: 'Let us keep a file on him'. As the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  said, most people in ASIO must be filing clerks, because it has so many files on people. 
The essence of the amendment moved by the Opposition is important. If at any time we say that the Minister shall be informed whether a file is kept on any citizen of this country, there will be pressure on the ASIO forces to restrict the number of files that they keep on people. It will have to show some purpose for keeping their files. Without this amendment what has been happening in Australia since 1 949 will continue to happen. The Labor movement will continue to be hounded by the ASIO forces. ASIO will be another group of anti-Labor movement people in this country using the resources of government to harass the Labor movement. The green light will be given to ASIO by the Bill which has been presented by this Government. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industrial Relations. 
Government members- Oh, no! 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
-I refer the Minister for Industrial Relations to his answer in Parliament yesterday when he said that his staff had checked with the program  PM  and had confirmed that it had a copy of the Staples letter last Thursday night before his office circulated the letter. In view of the program's broadcast statement last night which directly contradicted the Minister's claim, will the Minister now correct his misleading statement made to Parliament yesterday? 
-I remind the Minister for Industrial Relations that when he was asked on Tuesday of this week whether any member of his staff was responsible for distribution of the Staples letter he said: 'I will check up and let him know'. I ask the Minister now: Can he say quite specifically whether he did authorise his staff to hand out the letter? Was he aware of it when it was handed out? 
-It is scandalous that the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs now plays a secondary role to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the make-up of Australia's labour force. At the moment this Government is encouraging people to migrate to Australia, some of whom it is possible will be unemployed in this country for the rest of their lives. We already have substantially high unemployment in this country and many of those people who are coming to Australia today under the present system of immigration will also be unemployed. Figures that I will give later will show that the unemployment rate among the most recent arrivals over the last 18 months is up to three times higher than the unemployment rate for those people who were born here. 
There are two Ministers and two departments on trial in this House today. A charge of misleading the Parliament and the Australian electorate is not one taken lightly by the Opposition, but departmental documents prove conclusively that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  have deliberately attempted to mislead the Australian Parliament. 
-Once again, it has been left to the Opposition to initiate a debate on a subject which is worrying almost every adult in this country. Subsequently, it will worry the children of those people as they wonder what lies ahead in the 1980s. At the end of 1979 the people in this country are heading into a decade of greater uncertainty than any other generation of Australians since the 1940s. As I said, it has been left to the Opposition to say something about the effects and ramifications of technological change in this country and what bearing it will have on employment opportunities in the years ahead. 
The Fraser Government is engaged in a conspiracy of confusion to obscure the unemployment shock wave resulting from uncontrolled technological change over the next decade. There is a wealth of evidence from overseas studies indicating that over the next few years the impact of microprocessing will be devastating. In West Germany the microprocessors are called the job killers. Yet to listen to the tripe peddled by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  one would believe that technological change will herald an era of unprecedented economic growth and prosperity. Given present Government policies, nothing could be further from the truth. Only last week the Government authorised expenditure in excess of $300m on the introduction of a domestic satellite. The report on that project- a report of over 200 pages- canvassed the employment implications in just three pages. That fact in itself is a damning indictment of the present Government's attitudes. At best it could be said that within the Government there is an obstinate resistance to facing reality. The Minister for Industry and Commerce was typically fatuous when he told a convention in Sydney in 1978: 
. technological advance will be one of the keys in the future, to creation of new industries and improved conditions of work. 
Interestingly enough, he failed to spell out the implications for those presently unemployed and for those whose livelihood will be shattered by the spectre of job redundancy. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs was less coy in his indifference when he gave this answer to a parliamentary question in March of this year: 
The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs does not collect on a regular basis statistics which indicate the number of people who have been retrenched from industry or who have lost their jobs as a result of the introduction of automated techniques. 
This sort of complacency at government level is backed up by outright bureaucratic indifference and bloody-mindedness at departmental level. The Treasury, in its submission to the Myers inquiry, claimed: 
. there is no evidence that technological change has or will contribute to greater unemployment overall. 
In a recent working paper entitled 'The Snapshop Model', written as a research paper for the Impact project sponsored by several Government departments, there is not one sentence which discusses unemployment rates and the impact of technological unemployment; yet the whole purpose of the Impact project is to forecast future economic and employment trends. Of course the Government will claim the appointment of the Myers inquiry as belated evidence of concern; yet that inquiry is controlled and virtually run by the Department of Productivity, whose bullish approach to technological change is well known. Its hearings have been stage managed; the format, to say the least, is intimidating; and its timetable is completely unrealistic. On present indications, the report is likely to be a whitewash. 
The Government constantly argues that the new technology will create jobs, which is a partial truth, but it never acknowledges that there will be a net loss. One of the most recent objective surveys on this question was published in December 1978. It is entitled 'Report on Computers in Australia- Usage and Effects' and it was conducted by  Dr B.  S. Thornton and  Mr P.  M. Stanley. Their conclusion, working from capital investment in computers, was that some 200,000 jobs had been displaced in offices alone. On the positive side, some 53,000 people gained employment in data processing and operating. The Government remains passive, as the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs has indicated. We simply do not know how many storemen and packers have been replaced in warehouses or how many linotype operators have seen their skills become irrelevant. In an excellent booklet just published by the Printing and Kindred Industries Union a number of items are put forward as to what is occurring in industry. The unions are doing their best to salvage something out of the changes that are taking place as far as technology is concerned, but all they have been able to salvage is the right to see that none of their present members is dismissed from employment. The unions are not able to guarantee that the jobs available in industry today will be there in the future for the children who come out of the educational institutions. If we look at some of the instances given in the booklet printed by the Printing and Kindred Industries Union we will see that the Government ought to be initiating a great deal more debate and discussion on this subject in the Parliament. Telecom Australia will reduce the number of maintenance workers it has by 20 per cent over the next six years but there will be an increase of 60 per cent in the number of lines available to consumers in Australia. The booklet states: 
In the Banking Industry the personalised work of bank tellers, of ledger keepers and typists will be eliminated as a result of the installation of 24 hours a day, seven days a week automatic cash dispensers. 
An electronic funds transfer system will allow for electronic payment at point of purchase when the automatic transfer of funds is achieved by direct link from the computer of the store to the centralised computer of the bank. 
This will result in a reduction of cashiers, record clerks and other support staff in the offices of manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers. 
The transfer of computer tapes to banks from Electricity Authorities, Telecom Australia, Insurance Offices and other large undertakings will enable customers' accounts to be charged automatically and as a result fewer or no invoices will be needed, less paper will be used, less printing will be required, fewer envelopes will be needed, less stamps will be needed for postage and less mail deliveries will be required. 
From this type of analysis we can see that computerisation in one industry or even in one undertaking can cause a domino effect in others. 
Following an address made in Australia last year,  Mr Clive  Jenkins presented a view quite contrary to the view being expressed by some Ministers in this country.  Mr Jenkins  is the General Secretary of the 440,000-member Association of Scientific, Technical and Managerial Staffs of the United Kingdom. He was in Australia to speak at a conference on democracy at work. He said that the work force in every mature industrialised country including Australia would be decimated in the next 10 years by a fire storm of technology. He quoted from a recent study done at Cambridge University which showed that unemployment in Britain would soar from the present level- that is at the time he was speaking- of about 1.3 million to five million by 1990. The European Economic Community has predicted that the six million people currently unemployed in that area will swell to 18 million by 1990 and that of these 5 per cent, or almost one million, will be young people who have never worked in their lives. As I said, even when people are kept on in a firm on the guarantee of their jobs when technology changes, there are still social costs to be paid, as reported by Professor Bill Ford. He said: 
The operator who once uniquely knew when to tap the zinc furnace but who is now a stacker attendant, the 33-year- old shoe maker who since qualifying as a tradesman has spent all his working life operating a machine on a 1 5-second cycle . . . 
Technological change has the potential to deskill large sections of the work force. I refer to an excellent paper given by Justice Mary Gaudron at the Australian College of Education in Perth. She called her paper. 'The Changing World of Work'. About the impact on the work force in these places of technological change, she stated: 
Only in rare instances thus far in Australia has management seen fit to inform trade union officials and employees in advance of the purchase and installation of new technology. Even rarer have been the instances in which employees have been afforded the opportunity to involve themselves in decisions relating to the technology to be introduced and for the adaption of work practices and numbers employed to that technology. Even when employees have gained information in advance of the introduction of new technology, their requests for involvement in the decision-making processes have been met with the response either of managerial prerogative or of higher engineering and /or technological knowledge. 
The 150,000 clerical jobs already eliminated have had an adverse effect on youth unemployment. In the past, banks, insurance companies and so on were all major employers of school leavers. Today, teenagers leaving school face not only an economic recession but also employers who will not recruit them for jobs which have been eliminated. Between June 1975 and June 1978 the number of staff under 17 years of age employed by banks in this country declined by 47 per cent. But that was in the past. The speed of the development of the new technology immediately threatens more jobs. The Fraser Government has seriously exacerbated the problem through the indiscriminate granting of the investment allowance and other inequitous handouts of capital. In effect, it has willingly financed the abolition of jobs. The advent of the microprocessor has the potential to destroy traditional employment patterns completely. Even the smallest of firms can now exploit the new technology. In the bigger companies more jobs lower down the line can be performed by computers. One of the major effects will be in the typing pool. In February 1979 the number of employed clerical female workers totalled 732,000. Thornton and Stanley believe that the introduction of micro-processors could cut the number of staff by as much as 30 per cent to 50 per cent. Taking the lower figure, we come up with at least 220,000 positions abolished. 
But the implications go beyond the typing pool. Fewer personal staff, fewer supervisory staff and fewer wages staff will be needed. The Nora report on the impact of technology on jobs, which was commissioned by the French President, estimated that 30 per cent of jobs in banking, insurance and the public sector would be lost because of technological change. A special report prepared by the Siemens Corporation of West Germany estimated that 40 per cent of clerical and related workers would be redundant by the mid-1980s. So recent developments in computer technology will have a stunning impact in reducing the number of jobs available in this country. I refer not only to white collar jobs. The jobs of many semi-skilled production workers are at risk. The changing micro-processor technology threatens two of our most vulnerable groupsschool leavers and the semi-skilled. But the present Government rejects the responsibility and continues to delude itself that computerisation creates jobs while flinging investment allowance money to big companies. 
A Labor Government would have a responsibility to all of the people of the country. There are positive steps to be taken, such as the monitoring and supervising of the introduction of new technology and the promotion of education and retraining. But these measures on their own will not plug the gap. In Australia the Government must recognise the need for job creation on a scale previously not contemplated. Job creation is good enough for comparable Western countries. It is good enough for the United States, Canada and Western Europe, but not for Malcolm Fraser and Ian Viner. For youth we require a specific job creation scheme designed to assist in the transition from school to work. We do not require the present Government's nonpolicy of locking up kids in the classroom and simply postponing their transition from school to unemployment. If the Minister is seeking some international comparisons for declared intentions to abolish unemployment benefits for the young and substitute them with a substantially smaller training allowance he should perhaps read the resolution of 22 May 1975 which was adopted by the Council of Europe, calling on all member-countries to make an all-out attack on the problem of youth unemployment. It reads: 
Governments should consider what measures in the short term can be taken to help unemployed young persons, including those seeking their first job, in order to prevent them from being a charge on their families. Such measures ought not to consist solely of the payment of regular allowances. They could . . . take the form of setting up temporary work projects adapted to the needs of young people and specially organised by public authorities. 
Since that motion was passed, technological change has abolished millions of jobs for young workers throughout Europe. European governments have responded in a variety of ways, but in every country publicly funded employment schemes have assumed greater priority and importance. That is exactly what a future Labor government would do to meet the crises that we are going to live with throughout the 1980s. This Government is taking us into the 1980s without any firm idea of the effects of technological change on employment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I apply myself to clause 35, which relates to unemployment benefit. I do not know that I have seen a more criminal clause in any Bill that has been presented to this Parliament. It is the height of madness of the Fraser Administration. I have never seen a clause that is so inhumane as the clause that is inherent in the Social Services Amendment Bill. I hope that people who are listening to Parliament follow what I am about to say because it will give them some idea of the type of people who are running this country at the moment. They are a group of multimillionaires who spend $30m or $40m buying themselves VIP aircraft. And this is what they do to people who find themselves in more unfortunate circumstances. 
The position once this Bill becomes law will be that in the case of an industrial dispute some people who had previously been entitled to unemployment benefit will be denied that benefit. I am not referring to the people who are actually- at first hand- involved in the industrial dispute. I am talking about people who have absolutely no say at all in the industrial dispute that is taking place. They do not have a vote on it. In many cases they are not even aware that the action is being taken until they are stood down. I will give a very simple example of what will apply in this country. It will give the people of Australia some idea of how draconian a measure this is. 
Let us look, for instance, at the situation of the rubber workers, the miscellaneous workers and the fitters who are part of a group of metal workers, if they were to go on strike in Adelaide at Uniroyal Pty Ltd and if its product- in this case tyres- was not available for the final assembly of cars in Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane. If members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union went on strike over a dispute in Adelaide and if General Motors-Holden's Ltd or Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane went to all their employees and said: 'Because our supply of tyres has been cut off from Adelaide we can no longer continue in production, so we are standing you all down', all the manufacturing industries related to the motor vehicle industry in Australia would close down. All the people involved in those industries would go off to register for the receipt of the unemployment benefit. But a person who is a member of the union- that is the metal workers unionwhich decided to go on strike at the Uniroyal works in Adelaide, when he goes to the counter to register to receive the unemployment benefit, will find that under this legislation the Government has devised a mechanism whereby that person will be denied the benefit. However, members of other unions who are stood down and who are not involved in the dispute at the Uniroyal plant in Adelaide will receive the unemployment benefit. Under this legislation a fitter, boilermaker, sheetmetal worker and an instrument maker in Brisbane can be stood down because the car plant cannot receive tyres from Adelaide but only those people who belong to the metal workers union will be denied the unemployment benefit. Those people who belong to another union such as the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia or the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees Union- the people who work in the canteens at these works- will be entitled to receive the unemployment benefit. 
How can any government in a democracy devise such a villainous scheme? How can it be that the people who run this country can sit around the Cabinet table and devise this way of denying a person the unemployment benefit when, through no fault of his own, he finds that he has been stood down? Such a person has to go home to his family and say: 'Look, we have been stood down because of an industrial dispute 2,000 miles away but I am told that because I am a member of the same union that went on strike in Adelaide, I cannot receive any unemployment benefit from the Government'. What is the family expected to live on? It will have to get a handout- a food parcel- from the welfare agency in the State in which its members live. What kind of men and women make up this Goverment when all they can do is to sit around the Cabinet table and devise such a scheme? It says a great deal about this Government. Many of them were bom with a silver spoon in their mouths. The man who leads this Government is a multi-millionaire. He has never wanted for a meal or anything else in his life. Last year he denied the pensioners $30m in benefits so that he could buy his VIP aircraft. He is now saying to the work force of this country: 'I have thought up another scheme for you. ' It rivals in its intention the scheme in last year's Budget to tax paperboys. That illustrates the type of government that we have in this country. 
Unless the members of the Opposition get up and expose what this Government is about to try to do the people of Australia will not understand. How is it that a person living in another State, in another country town, working in another establishment, can be denied the unemployment benefit, which would otherwise be his due, because a member of his union went on strike? Almost every industry in Australia would involve members of the metal workers union because of the specific work that they do. The union has 160,000 members spread throughout Australia. If the members of a union go on strike in an industry which supplies components to major manufacturers and as a result all those industries are closed down, only the members of the metal workers union will be unable to get the unemployment benefit. If a person is a member of another union he can get the unemployment benefit. 
The comical feature of clause 35 is how the Department of Social Security is to tell to which union a person belongs. Will those people who seek to register have to show their union card to the Department before a decision is made? This clause is absolutely criminal. Whilst it would not have a great impact on the finances of the work force of this country- not many people would apply for the unemployment benefit when they were stood down because they would not be stood down long enough- it does give a good idea of the mentality of this Government and how far down the gutter it has gone in order to come up with schemes to save a few more bob. It has done this not only in clause 35 of the Social Services Amendment Bill but also in many other ways, including the work test on unemployed people, the income tax it envisaged imposing on paperboys last year and in the taking away of twice-yearly indexation of pensions. It can be seen that at every corner this Government is devising schemes to make life tougher for the average Australian. That is what it is all about. As I said, we of the Opposition are totally opposed to clause 35 as is every thinking Australian. It stinks. It introduces a criminal feature into legislation which has been developed to assist people. The clause ought to be thrown out holus-bolus by every person who considers himself to be a parliamentarian in any sense of a democracy. 
-The Opposition is dealing with this episode devised by the Government whereby a person who is a member of a trade union is stood down, and that trade union has taken some industrial action elsewhere. The person being stood down will not be entitled to unemployment benefit. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has since responded to the questions I raised earlier this afternoon as to how the Department would identify the union those people would be members of, and how the Department would make this sort of decision. If I am correct the Minister said that the person involved would be asked to furnish information. I suppose he means some sort of union membership card, or that the employer would be asked to furnish information. In most cases I would have thought that unless the employer deducted the union dues he would not have a record, and the Department of Industrial Relations would have to furnish the information. Of course, that means that the Department of Industrial Relations would then have to be furnished with the information by the Industrial Registrar. From what the Minister has said one can see exactly how cumbersome this whole system will be in trying to deny a few people unemployment benefit as a result of action taken by people who belong to the same union. 
The Minister for Industrial Relations is in the House and I wonder if he could tell us whether the Industrial Registrar has been consulted- the word 'consulted' seems to have been popular in this place for the last couple of weeks- about the new role he is going to have to play in furnishing the Government with information so as to deny unionists unemployment benefit. It does not seem to me to be the type of role that the Industrial Registrar would like to play; nor does it seem to me to be the type of role the Department of Industrial Relations ought to be playing. It ment does not seem to me that it helps industrial relations very much in this country to have the Department that is there to assist in the good relations between the parties involved in this affair setting itself up as some police authority to furnish the Department of Social Security with information so as to deny the unemployment benefit to a person who is a member of a union which is taking industrial action. 
The whole idea, the whole concept, of denying the unemployment benefit to a person who has been stood down ought to be rejected. I cannot for the life of me understand how such a proposition got through the Government party room. Obviously there was no discussion or debate on the matter. We are not just dealing with people who are on strike. We are dealing with people who are involved in industrial disputes, whether they are on strike or whether they have a ban on 5 per cent of their work which leads to the standing down of other people. How a person can be found guilty when he is 1,000, 2,000 or 5,000 miles away from where the decision is taken to go on strike is completely beyond me. 
The honourable member for Petrie says: 'Collective responsibility'. How does a person working at General Motors-Holden's Ltd in Brisbane have a responsibility for a person working at Uniroyal Pty Ltd in Adelaide. 
The honourable member for Petrie says that it will have effect. What he sees is that the person in Brisbane would put pressure on the person in Adelaide not to take that industrial action. Obviously he does not have very much experience in industrial relations. That is not what will occur at all. One can conceive that many more people will be needed in the Department of Social Security should we have a spate of industrial disputes leading to the standdown of numbers of people and it becomes necessary to identify what unions they are members of. What if those people say that they are not a member of a union at all? That would delight the Government. If a person turns up at the Department of Social Security and says: 'I am not a member of the union,' he will be paid his unemployment benefit. In that situation why will they all not say it? 
There will be another investigation with the field officers. What will they investigate? Will they raid his home and take his wallet to see whether he is carrying a union ticket? Will the field officers ask the Industrial Registrar to give them a list of the members of all unions in Australia? It is incredible- the interjections just make it worse- that a government could have conceived this idea of denying unemployment benefits to a person who in no way is responsible for the action that has been taken. If we were to say that this Government were responsible for the situation in Kampuchea, everybody would have his arms up and be protesting about the charge we were making. To say that someone is in any way responsible for industrial action taken at another plant over which he has absolutely no power of decision making, of course, is to deny justice to the person who is stood down. 
We have to consider what the person does if he is denied the unemployment benefit. How does he live? Does the honourable member for Petrie have an answer to that? How does he buy food for his family? We are not all as fat and healthy as the honourable member for Petrie and I. How do the people supply the food for their families if they are stood down and do not get the unemployment benefit? The welfare agencies in Queensland will have to hand out the food and clothes needed by the people who are stood down and not paid the unemployment benefit. It is just another illustration of the thinking and the mentality of a government when it thinks up such a scheme. It drags more and more people in. It drags in the Department of Industrial Relations and the Industrial Registrar. Look at all the mechanisms that will have to be used to prove that someone is in a union so he can be denied the unemployment benefit. To make the position worse, the person who is to be denied unemployment benefit can have been working with people who will be paid unemployment benefit because they are not members of the unions involved in the industrial dispute in some other plant in some other city in some other State. It is just incredible to me that Government supporters allowed this provision to go through without debate in their party rooms, without question, without realising exactly what they were voting for. Obviously honourable members on this side of the chamber, as has been exposed, will be voting against it. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What was the distribution of registered unemployed and job vacancies between (a) metropolitan and (b) country areas in each State expressed in (i) adult and (ii) junior status for (A) males and (B) females as at 3 1 May in each of the years from 1976 to 1979, inclusive. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
What were the teenage unemployment rates in (a) metropolitan and (b) non-metropolitan locations in (i) Australia and (ii) each State as at 31 May in each of the years from 1976 to 1979, inclusive. 
-The Opposition welcomes the report of the National Training Council of Australia Study Mission. It reinforces many of the views which we have held and expressed in this Parliament over a number of years about the inadequacy of our manpower training and planning. The one great inadequacy in this report is that members of parliament were not involved in its preparation. Again I reiterate what I have said on many occasions, that whilst we send delegations overseas to attend Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences and Interparliamentary Union conferences and whilst we have committees in this Parliament dealing with a number of matters, and legitimately so, we have no direct access to the bureaucracy in terms of manpower planning in this country because the Government refuses to establish parliamentary committees on manpower planning. In this case it could perhaps have thought in terms of the ongoing debate on this matter about the involvement of parliamentarians as being part of the committee that did this study tour. All too often our trips abroad do not bring back this type of information. 
I think it is important when looking at this report to understand exactly what the Training Council is telling us. Firstly, on page 7, paragraph 15 of its report it reinforces the view that our apprenticeship system in Australia is just not working. We did not need to send people overseas to tell us that, but obviously the Council's views have been reinforced by its experience in visiting the United States, West Germany, the United Kingdom and Canada and it is now able to tell us that we will have to do something about the matter. I not only believe that we have to look very closely at the number of young people who would be available to undertake apprenticeships to fill the gaps in the vacancies which will exist in the skilled trades in future, but also I agree with the emphasis that has been put on the retraining of people already in employment that the mission came across through its investigation. 
Of course, it was quite right in its report in placing emphasis on the relationship between training and employment. In relation to all of the countries that it visited it reiterated in its report the necessity to have the closest of relationships between what we are doing in a country by training and retraining and what we hope to do objectively in the area of employment. The Committee has come back with the recommendation that Australia has got to look very closely at training and retraining and at our total objective in relation to employment policy. In fact, in the Federal Republic of Germany, two bodies, the Federal Institute for Vocational Training and the Federal Employment Institute, have been created. They were linked through cross membership and by legislation. So obviously some countries are dealing with these matters in a far more sophisticated way than we are. 
In relation to the Committee's experience of the existence of skill centres, it is a part of its recommendation that this is something that we should look at urgently because, as the Committee says, apprenticeship training or training for the skills that may be required in Australia does not necessarily relegate itself to only those who are looking for their first jobs or those who are unemployed. It will, of necessity, be a responsibility for any government in this country to see that people in employment are retrained to take on the new occupations that will emerge in the industries in which they are already working. Skill centres that exist in Canada and the United Kingdom were inspected by the Commission. It says in its report: 
They had been created because of gaps or inadequacies in the existing training system and attempted to overcome industry prejudices towards off-the-job training. 
The Opposition has laid emphasis on what we believe to be the necessity for off-the-job training in this country. I think that a lot of members of trade unions in this country have already considered whether the emphasis should not be on a 35-hour week across the board but rather that, if less hours are to be worked in industry in this country, some of the hours which are taken off the working week ought to be put towards training and retraining of our present work force. None of us can predict with any degree of certainty the type of employment that is going to be available to the work force of Australia over the next decade. Skilled centres, the government funded training institutions that were witnessed by this Committee, are of just as much importance to Australia as they are to those countries because we are comparable in make up to those countries which this Committee considered. I would have thought that its recommendations and analysis of these resource centres were of enormous importance to us in Australia. 
The one area which drew the attention of the Committee in these other countries- it is of identical importance in this country- was the identification of skills which are going to be in short supply. Just last week I think every member of Parliament received a letter signed by 25 nurses in a Sydney hospital who had just completed their training. One could have received the same letter from 25 teachers in most States. The fact is that, willy-nilly, we have allowed people to go into occupations, to do their training in various colleges and hospitals, when, with the slightest investigation, we should have been able to tell them that there would be no jobs available for the majority of them when they completed their training. We have to be able to identify in Australia, for the purposes of people doing a four or five-year training course, or less or more, whatever it may be, whether, in fact, the occupations for which they are training are going to be available when they complete their training. Monitoring of the work force is a very, very difficult task but it is something to which we are going to have to apply ourselves. I believe that one of the reasons why we are not able to do it is because we do not have the mechanisms within the government, or within a statutory authority outside of government and free from government, to tell us, as near as possible, what is going to be required. It is one thing to say that we are 10,000 tradesmen short a year in our training programs and that we are going to aim at bringing in 50,000 skilled migrants between 1979 and 1985; but Australia should be applying a lot more time and a lot more of its vast resources to determining which skills those 10,000 people a year should have and what we are going to require after 1985, not only in the manufacturing industry but in the services industry or in academia. 
I would refer all honourable members to the Committee's comments on a central training authority. It says that authorities have been established to advise the central government on training policies and programs in each of the four countries. A number of the features about these authorities should be noted. The Committee states: 
Central training authorities in Canada, USA and the UK were responsible for employment as well as training policy development. 
All authorities were established by statute as independent advisory bodies to Government and, except for the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission, all functioned independently of Government Departments. 
I think that we are going to have to debate whether this function is best accomplished by a government department or whether the experience of the countries visited by the Committee is something by which we could be guided. All authorities in these other countries had representatives of employers and trade unions on their controlling boards. Most also included government and education authorities. It seems to me to be imperative, considering the makeup of our economy, that when we are dealing with manpower programs and trying to monitor the work force we involve the largest of the pressure groups exercising their rights in the economy. If we do this we are then talking about three major parties, the Government, the trade union movement and the employers. This group has been expanded, quite validly and sensibly, to include education authorities. I would have thought, from the committees that we have had in operation in Australia quite recently looking at education and retraining, that an authority such as those working in most of those countries should be, at least, debated in this Parliament. We should decide whether Australia should follow the lead of these other countries visited by the Committee. The Committee also said: 
Some authorities, in addition to their advisory role, had the responsibility to undertake executive action in the administration of programs- Canada Employment and Immigration Commission, the Federal Employment Institute (the Federal Republic of Germany) and Manpower Services Commission (the United Kingdom). The activities and administration of all authorities were totally funded by government. 
I think that when people read this report and get to the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee they will see that it did not waste its time overseas. There is a lot to be learned in this concise report from what it observed overseas. I think it is important in laying down guidelines for what we should be discussing here. I would suggest to the Government that no longer should the role of parliamentarians be ignored in trying to reach decisions on this very important subject. If further working parties are to travel overseas and look at the mechanisms used by comparable governments, parliamentarians ought to be part of them. This Parliament ought to establish committees to look continuously at the manpower programs and requirements of Australia. Continued refusal by the Government to establish such mechanisms will only mean that the debate in this Parliament will continue to be inadequate and our policies in the 1980s will be just as inadequate as the policies of the late 1970s. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The setting up of the Estimates committees has at least caused a great deal of comment. People have come into the House to speak when the committee reports are being dealt with. I do not join many of my colleagues in totally condemning the operation of the committees. If it had not been for the bungling of this incompetent Government in setting up the committees they could have worked much better than they did. I think that the committees have some future in terms of scrutinising the appropriations for the various departments. They gave us access to the bureaucracy which is not available otherwise unless we have some sort of confidential briefing on legislation. I think that many honourable members benefited from their contact with the public servants. We were able to see how competent Ministers were. As we expected, they were not very competent. 
As to the area to which I want to direct my attention, the employment area, we did not come away from Estimates Committee B any wiser than we went to it, but we were able to ascertain that the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs is not doing the work required of a department of that nature if we are to meet the problems and challenges in the years ahead in finding jobs for the number of people in this country who want to work. Before I deal with employment, I want to refer to the way in which the Department of Social Security is dealing with unemployed people in terms of the work test and the payment of unemployment benefit. The letter which is now sent out to unemployed people states: 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
An appointment has been made for you and your spouse to discuss your continuing eligibility for unemployment benefit. 
The appointment details are than set out. The letter continues: 
The interview is held to review your entitlement to unemployment benefit and to answer any questions you may have. 
An attachment to the letter states: 
IMPORTANT 
Bring with you any of the following papers which will help to establish your identity: an original birth, baptism or marriage certificate, or an extract issued at least five years ago; a taxation group certificate covering a total of at least six months full-time employment; 
Of course, many unemployed people do not have such a thing. The attachment continues:  a passport; 
I would not have thought that many unemployed people in Australia would have a passport. It continues:  an original motor vehicle registration form in your name; a credit card showing your full name and address; 
I would be delighted to know how many unemployed people carry around a Diners Club card or an American Express card so that they can be identified by the Department of Social Security. The attachment continues:  a rate or water account made out in your name showing your present address; a taxation assessment notice for a previous year; an insurance policy in your name issued at least two years ago; for school leavers- a recent school report or reference on official school paper: 
A driving licence or a savings bank pass book is not acceptable as evidence of your identity without additional supporting evidence. 
When we consider the number of people who are joining the army of what we now term the hidden unemployed, the people who are no longer registering for unemployment benefit or registering with the Commonwealth Employment Service in order that they may find employment, we find that the reason they are not registering is that they are being harassed by various government departments, either through the work test or through their eligibility for the payment of unemployment benefit. This crude letter is sent out by the Department of Social Security to unemployed people. It is not sent to these people only once a year. The long term unemployed people are now being asked to present themselves on a weekly basis in some centres throughout Australia and to bring forward this sort of material. It is indicative of the mentality of government thinking, which comes from the top- from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  right down to the bureaucracy of the Government, that we are asking unemployed people to bring along their credit cards so that they can be identified. Anybody under 1 8 years of age who is unemployed and who is receiving $36 a week or any unemployed married person who is receiving $53.45 a week and who has a credit card must have told the people in charge of the credit card system a good story to be handed a credit card. 
Other matters raised before Estimates Committee B ought to be clarified because they were not clarified in the Budget debate. Firstly, all the boasting by the Government about how many more apprentices would be trained in this country because of the increase in expenditure from $38m to $56m in the appropriation for the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training Scheme this year is a lot of hogwash. Estimates Committee B was told by one of the public servants- it is recorded in  Hansardthat  the increase will allow for the subsidy to be paid this year to an additional 613 apprentices or, as the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures tells us, an increase of one per cent in the number of apprentices being trained under the Government's CRAFT scheme. Our search to bring in 10,000 tradesmen from overseas every year for the next five years goes on because the Government has not met up to the challenge of training the people who are available in this country. Our deficiency in training people for the jobs that will be available in the next five years goes on in spite of the fact that the appropriation for apprentice training has increased from $38m to $5 6m. 
In other areas we have been able to prove- I ask honourable members opposite to look at the  Hansard  for Estimates Committee B- the enormous conflict between the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs about the criteria being used for allowing migrants to come into this country. There is no doubt that at Cabinet level this Government has decided to downgrade job opportunities in this country. Migrants are to be allowed to come to Australia and settle. As we said last week in the debate on the matter of public importance on this subject and as has been shown at the meetings of Estimates Committee A, in the debate that took place in the House some weeks ago and in the debate on Tuesday night of this week, the Government is in a muddle over the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System. The Department of Employment and Youth Affairs has been played down. Its influence has been submerged. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has now taken over. There is no doubt that people are being encouraged to settle in Australia. There is absolutely no chance that all of them will be employed in the short term after arrival in this country. 
Further, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has said and as the debate by Estimates Committee A will show, there is absolutely no hope that this Government will take any action to reduce the total number of unemployed people in this country. The Treasurer said that he did not expect unemployment to be any less in August 1980 than it was in August 1979 when he brought down the Budget. In fact, all the indicators are that unemployment will be higher in 1980 when all the school leavers hit us and register for employment in January and February. The Government has absolutely nothing in the pipeline of any value. I repeat that it has nothing of any value. 
There is no doubt from what the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Prime Minister are saying that some sort of woolly scheme will be thrust upon the young people of this country in order to take them off the unemployment list. Fewer unemployed people will register next year because of schemes that the Government is looking at. I can predict now what sort of schemes they will be. They will involve the payment of an allowance much less than the unemployment benefit so that the recipients will not be judged as unemployed. They will be judged as people in the transitionary stage from school to work. Any sort of woolly scheme that the Government may want to introduce could take between 50,000 and 80,000 young people between 1 5 and 1 8 years of age off the unemployment list by paying them an allowance which is far less than the $36 a week to which they would be entitled as registered unemployed people. 
A number of the matters which came out at the meetings of Estimates Committee B reinforced the views we held during the debate on the Budget. I would not describe the Estimates committees as being a total failure. I think that those people from both sides of the House who pushed for the establishment of the committees ought to push for them again next year. We will then have more experience under our belts as to how to handle them. The public servants will also know what is expected of them. Perhaps Ministers will be a little more articulate and a little better informed next year than they were this year in answering questions about their various departments. Perhaps we will have a more sophisticated political debate in this country as a result of these committees. Reform does not come easy in the Westminster system. Michael Foot, when he was Leader of the House, pushed for morning sessions for the House of Commons in the United Kingdom. He found to his surprise that very few people attended the sessions. In this country the  Speaker  is now talking about reform of the Senate to avoid what happened in 1975. But as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the  Speaker  himself was involved in a great controversy in 1974 when the Senate blocked Supply. Those things must be overcome but it does not mean that every time we have some sort of minor reform we should throw it out the window. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
What impact will the elimination of the Commonwealth medical rebate have on young persons? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Which of Australia's overseas territories do not have resident populations. 
Which of them have other populations and what is the size of those populations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
Will the Minister give definite assurances that the Government is not considering the elimination or reduction of unemployment benefits for young persons under 18 years of age. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
Do laws in the overseas territories with non-resident populations conflict with the requirements of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 65- Penal Sanctions (Indigenous Workers), 1939; if so, which laws. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Can he say what jobs have been created by the Queensland Government in the Maryborough district with the $7m which the Commonwealth agreed to pay following the closing down of rnining operations on Fraser Island. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
recognising that in Innisfail there are 171 registered unemployed young people for every job vacancy, Ayr 159, Atherton 238, Nambour 120, Warwick 91, Cairns 64, Mackay 61, Bundaberg 58, Toowoomba 82 and Rockhampton 52; is of the opinion that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has failed to create jobs in Queensland provincial cities and other rural areas throughout Australia, and 
accordingly calls upon the Government to provide immediate financial assistance to State and local government for youth job creation, training and retraining schemes in Queensland. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
recognising that in Mildura there are 779 registered unemployed young people for every job vacancy, 2 15 in Swan Hill, 63 in Echuca,53 in Bendigo,53 in Hamilton, 50 in Sale, 47 in Wangaratta, 45 in Ballarat, 44 in Colac and 42 in Warrnambool, is of the opinion that the Liberal and Country Party Government has failed to create jobs for Victorian provincial cities and rural areas, and 
accordingly, calls on the Government to urgently provide financial assistance to State and Local Government for youth job creation, training and retraining schemes in Victoria. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That, in view of the report by the Directorate for Social Affairs, Manpower and Education of the OECD on Youth Unemployment released on 27 September this year that 'the outlook for a return to full employment over the next few years is much more gloomy in the light of recent increases in oil prices', this Parliament determines that as a matter of urgency a Joint Committee should be established to inquire into the effect which the Government's decision to go to world parity on oil pricing is having on employment opportunities in Australia. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to speak for only two minutes. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I will not speak for two minutes at all. It is merely- 
-Thank you for that,  Mr Speaker.  I point out that as the Standing Orders are silent under the system we have of electing the  Speaker  of this Parliament- to which you have drawn attention on many occasionsobviously your ruling must depend upon the majority which elected you to that position. I say that because that is the system which applies. I think it is important for us to move the motion because it is important to- 
No, I am saying it will be carried because you are elected by the majority. I am also saying that it is extremely important that we place on record the matters which have been raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Paramount in the argument which has been laid before the Parliament tonight must be the point raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  that we are being restricted in this Parliament in expressing opinions in matters on which we can express opinions quite freely outside the Parliament. Obviously the newspapers, the radio stations and the television stations tomorrow morning will be commenting on the matters which we are told by your ruling we are not to discuss in the Parliament. Your ruling depends very much on the way in which the foreshadowed motion has been framed. You said that there was not mention of ministerial responsibility. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has pointed out, the person in the chair listening to the debate would need a keen eye and a keen ear to make sure that people taking part in the debate did not breach the sub judice rule, as we could come to understand it, endorse it and enforce it within this Parliament. But the Greek conspiracy case is used as a very loose term. It does not merely apply to the people who are before the courts. It encompasses the Government's attitude to the Greek community in Sydney. The relationship between the Ministers has been raised- 

 - Mr Speaker, you based your ruling on the observation that there was no mention of ministerial responsibility in the foreshadowed motion. But I am suggesting to you that the Greek conspiracy case refers, in the Opposition's view, to the relationship between the Government and the Greek community. We would also raise the relationship between the Department of Social Security and the police and the actions that were taken. What evidence is being held by the police against people who have not been charged? What authority has been given by the Ministers? 

 -But, Mr Speaker, what I am saying here in front of you in the House of Representatives tonight is that if I walk outside the door what I say can be printed. We should be the last to apply the sub judice rule, not the first. Parliament ought to be able to discuss these matters. It would seem to be an incredible station. Each of the members of the Opposition who have spoken have raised this point. We are to be silenced on the question of ministerial responsibility in a case about which the ethnic communities of this country are deeply alarmed. It cannot be that you,  Mr Speaker,  would rule us out of order on the sub judice rule merely because of the way the motion is framed. Obviously you would see that the Opposition is concerned with the way in which the Government has handled this whole case. It may be that if the motion were rewritten it will be acceptable to you. But it seems to me to be terribly important and paramount in the whole argument that the people outside this Parliament should be getting what they expect of us, and that is a thorough investigation into the way in which this Government deals with the civil liberties of the people in this country. That is what is inherent in this argument. 
If we do not proceed with a debate on this subject we are doing the Australian people a grave disservice. 
Yesterday's Press report of a document that was leaked from the Liberal Party regarding its preparation for an election makes very interesting reading. Everybody in Australia should have a very close look at that report. The first comment I wish to make is that it was not prepared for next year's election; it was obviously prepared for this year's election. Together with all the other announcements that have been made by the Government, there is no doubt that had there not been a Sinclair affair this year we would have been faced with another election. Thanks to the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  we have avoided a Federal election this year. The document also shows that, amongst the problems the Government has to avoid or explain over the next 12 months, there is the problem of the self-indulgence of the Government. What an extraordinary feature it is of a campaign report by the Liberal Party that one of the matters it has to explain to the members who serve in this Parliament, as well as to the other operatives in the Liberal Party throughout Australia, and to the Australian people, is that the Government has not been self-indulgent, that there is a misunderstanding about some of the accusations that have been made against this Government. It is not true that the Government spent $30m on Boeing aircraft for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is not true that Ministers have had all these trips overseas. It is not true that thousands of dollars hve been spent on the Lodge, in self-indulgence by the Prime Minister. We are told in the document leaked from the Liberal Party headquarters that members have to tell the public that none of these things is true. I hope that the people will see through it. The document told us that they have to explain what a good job the Liberal Party has done on taxation. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  in line with the instructions given by the campaign committee, told us this afternoon that the new tax cuts that will take place from 1 December represent a windfall for taxpayers. The people of Australia know that the Government is giving back to them in December what it took from them 18 months ago. There is absolutely no tax cut. If a 10 per cent wage increase is achieved during the year as a result of the 10 per cent inflation rate in Australia, wage earners will pay more tax in Australia in 1978-79 than they paid in previous years. 
On the other hand, Liberal Party members are instructed that, if the Labor Party looks like being a team for moderation, if it looks as though it is winning over the middle ground, they must try to destroy it. They must kick the old trade union or communist can again. Out go the instructions to the Liberal Party robots how they are to conduct themselves over the next 12 months. What an extraordinary set of circumstances it is that these people cannot think for themselves about what the issues will be. They have been told that they must explain the Government's position on health insurance in Australia. How will someone on the other side of this Parliament explain away to honourable members inside the Parliament, in the first instance, what a mess the Government has made of health insurance? If honourable members look at the double page advertisement in the Melbourne  Age  this morning they will get some idea of the ramifications of what the government has done to the health system in this country. An appeal is being made to those who have to pay less for their health insurance to join a separate private fund and to leave the chronically ill and aged in funds where they will have to pay very high premiums. Go out and explain that to the Australian public! 
I have a suggestion for the director of the Liberal Party when he is running next year's election campaign. He needs a far more intelligent government to sell than the one we have at the moment. He had better change the produce before he lays down the criteria for selling it. He had better do a bit more market research on some of the dummies he has on the front bench and the way they are handling this country before he lays down instructions how the Government is going to be sold at the next election. Some of the fundamentals with which he is dealing in saying how the Government will be sold on some of the issues that he puts forward are pitfalls for the Government. I give this assurance. One thing about which I will keep reminding the Government in this House, and reminding the people outside, is this Government's selfindulgence. During the period in which the Government has been telling the people of Australia to tighten their belts, a former Treasurer has been flogging off land on the Mornington Peninsula and the Prime Minister has been spending millions of dollars to look after himself- money he took from the pensioners. There is no way the Government will be given the mercy of not discussing these issues in the lead-up to the 1980 election. It should get Tony Eggleton, the Liberal Party director, to write a new list of instructions because the old ones are not going to wear. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House recognising that- (1)1 in 5 unemployed family heads in South Australia experience bankruptcy and repossession; 
in Ballarat, Victoria, the attempted suicide rate of the unemployed is 12 times the national average; 
the report of the Joint Economic Committee of the United States Congress states that a 1 per cent general rise in the rate of unemployment leads to a 4.1 per cent increase in the suicide rate, a S.4 per cent rise in mental hospital admissions, a 4 per cent rise in prison admissions and a 5.7 per cent increase in deaths from illness of heart, liver and kidneys, and 
the Federal Government's Homeless Advisory Committee for Queensland states that in the past 12 months the number of park dwellers in Qld has doubled. 
Accordingly, calls on the Government to immediately establish a joint Committee to investigate the social cost of massive and prolonged unemployment. 
-by leave-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  my colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  and I have made an arrangement with the Leader of the House, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to share the time that the Government has allotted the Opposition in which to speak to his statement. The statement cuts across two areas- the way in which schools and educational institutions may be used under and helped by the scheme announced by the Government, and the impact on young people of their entering the work force. As the statement cuts across two areas we would both like to say a few words about it. 
Anybody going through the statement which the Minister made today would realise that the scheme, encompassing the expenditure of some money for what the Government now calls the transitionary stage from school to work, is of absolutely no assistance in the year 1979-80. The school leavers, the 250,000 young people who are expected to leave the educational institutions over the next few weeks, will not be assisted one iota by the scheme which was announced by the Government today. I only wish that the back bench members of the Government, who were reported to have put pressure on the Government to announce some job creation scheme, had been successful in their claims on the Government. 
The great difficulty is not the preparation of people for the work force; it is the supply of work which is the problem in Australia today. We have 400,000 people who are registered as looking for work, but we know that there are far more than that. We have 250,000 people coming on to the work force from the schools. That is a net increase of 1 10,000. We have an undersupply of jobs. It does not matter whether we send every school leaver through the universities of Australia and give them all the training that our educational institutions can give them, there are still just not enough jobs to go around for all the people who require work. 
The Government has been attracted to one of the Australian Bureau of Statistics surveys which showed that a little over 7 per cent of the people interviewed said that they had not received employment because they did not have the necessary educational qualification or skills. The Government horned in on this one result of the survey and said that it was going to do something about the problem. But 47 per cent of the people interviewed said that they did not get a job because there was absolutely no job available. Unless the Government moves to create jobs, we are going to have to live with a permanent army, a very high percentage of unemployed in this country. The Government cannot expect that members on this side of the House or people observing the Government's actions outside the House are going to take this announcement seriously. Just three months ago, on the first day of the Budget sitting, the Government announced it was going to slash $55m or 69 per cent from the Special Youth Employment Training Program; $55m was taken off on the first day of this session; $10m has been given back in another program on the last day of the session. In spite of the inadequacies of the program, the $55m was helping people to go into the work force. The Government does not seem to understand that a lack of jobs is the problem. It is not necessarily the training, the educational qualifications or the skills of people. This year the Government announced, and beat its chest, that it was going to spend an additional $ 18m on apprenticeship training. But when we got down to the tin tacks and analysed what this additional $ 1 8m was going to do, we found there was going to be an increase in the intake of apprenticeships in Australia of between one per cent and two per cent. 
We are still short of 10,000 skilled tradesmen a year in Australia. The Government still intends to bring 10,000 skilled migrants into this country to make up the shortfall here while we refuse to train our own people. Why cannot the back bench say to the Ministers that this is where they have to spend our resources if they are serious about putting people to work? The Government is not serious about putting people to work by saying to someone who has finished three years of high school that he will be better equipped if he finishes five years of high school, in spite of the fact that there is going to be no job available. The Government is not going to assist people to get work by increasing the intake of our universities by 5 per cent a year unless it makes the jobs available in the work force. Unless that is done the Government is not going to be able to put these people to work. That is the real inadequacy of the situation in our economy today. The Government is not facing up to reality; it is not facing up to what is required in this country. It is being condemned throughout the country for a lack of foresight of the problems that we are running into. It was expected- no doubt the Government considered this-that the Government would abolish the payment of unemployment benefits for school leavers. It was quite a serious consideration when it was placed before Cabinet in the last few months of its considerations. 
Fortunately, pressure from this side of the House and from people outside the House has made the Government do away with that idea. It could not dare do it politically, but it might do it next year. 
The announcement made by the Government today will do absolutely nothing to assist people into the work force. We have a substantial oversupply of labour. While the Government continues with its philosophy of not assisting job creation we are going to have to live with that oversupply of labour. We are going to live with broken families, with crime, with drug offences, with alcoholism, with all the things which come out of high unemployment in this country because the Government refuses to recognise what has to be done. But there are many other people who do recognise it, not just the Labor Party, but a lot of apolitical people outside the Parliament. I hope they will get their opportunity of telling the Government what they think of it about this time next year. 
