Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that the maximum amount which pensioners are able to earn while still retaining full eligibility for pension entitlements was fixed at $20 a week in September 1972 and has not been increased since then despite massive levels of wage inflation in the last  Vh  years? Will the Minister take steps to increase the amount which pensioners may earn while still retaining full pension benefits? 
-In rising to address this House for the first time since my election to the Parliament I add my congratulations to those already offered to you by many honourable members who have spoken in this 
Address-in-Reply debate. I believe the experience over the last 3 weeks since your election to the Chair indicates that the deliberations of this chamber will be enhanced by your occupancy of it. I would also like to thank the electors of Kingston for the confidence which they showed in me at the election on 13 December. I am fully aware of the responsibility with which they have entrusted me and I will endeavour to fulfill that trust as their member. The electorate of Kingston is geographically large by comparison with most metropolitan electorates. It contains a diversity both of people and of industries. There are small pockets of primary industry remaining in the electorate despite the encroaching urban sprawl, and industries range through grape and wine production to heavy manufacturing. Kingston contains South Australia's only oil refinery located at Port Stanvac, and Sola International Pty Ltd a firm which leads the world in lens making technology. 
However, perhaps the industry of most significance not only to the people of Kingston but also to the people of South Australia is that related to the manufacture of motor vehicles. Chrysler Australia Ltd has both its foundry and engine shop located in the heart of the electorate at Lonsdale, Chrysler's assembly and panel shops are located just outside the electorate but they provide significant employment for many people living within it. There are also significant automotive component manufacturers located within Kingston such as Rainsfords Metal Products Pty Ltd and Hills Industries Ltd, while other component manufacturers are on the fringe of the electorate, once again providing employment for people living within the electorate. Therefore a healthy automotive industry is important to the people of Kingston and to the people of South Australia. 
Motor vehicle manufacturing in Australia at the moment is in a state of crisis. If we look at the figures we will see that in July and August 1974 some 95 200 units were produced but by July and August 1975 this had fallen to 81 100 units. Concurrently between October 1974 and October 1975 employment fell at Chrysler by some 32.4 per cent. I think this indicates the magnitude of the problem facing the automotive industry. I was therefore pleased to hear in the Speech that the Governor-General delivered that as part of its policy to restore private enterprise, particular attention will be devoted to manufacturing industry by the new LiberalNational Country Party Government. 
Manufacturers of motor vehicles and automotive components are the largest employers of labour in any one industry in Australia today. The vehicle makers employ some 55 000 people while automotive component manufacturers employ a further 30 000. This represents 6 per cent of the jobs available in manufacturing industry. The great significance of the car industry to South Australia is indicated by the fact that it provides some 17 per cent of jobs in manufacturing industry in that State, and 20 per cent of employment opportunities in manufacturing industry within the Adelaide metropolitan area. Of course, to this must be added the multiplier effect which the industry has on employment in service and other related industries. Motor vehicle manufacture is labour intensive and employs a high proportion of semi-skilled labour. Therefore, if the industry can regain its former level of production it will make a major contribution to reducing unemployment -an important goal of this Government. 
While governments prior to 1972 must share some of the blame for the current parlous state of the industry through their continual modification of content plans which prevented stability and long term planning within the industry, the major blame must lie fairly and squarely at the feet of the recently defeated Labor Government. High inflation which resulted from its economic mismanagement caused massive increases in the cost of production. This made it extremely difficult for local manufacturers to compete with imported vehicles. Coupled with the abolition of the export incentive it destroyed the expanding export markets which Australian manufacturers were establishing with the encouragement of previous Liberal governments. Australian manufacturers now hold only one-third of the export business which they held in 1 973. 
The indiscriminate 25 per cent across the board tariff cut showed a complete lack of sophistication in economic management by the Labor Government. Combined with the cost disadvantages already mentioned, this made competition with imported vehicles extremely difficult and, introduced without warning, it made planning impossible. Later devaluations did not compensate for this tariff reduction but only balanced previous revaluations. Perhaps the greatest cross which the industry had to bear under Labor was its stop-start attitude to local manufacturers. There was indecision and a lack of firm guidelines. The Government relied on varying and conflicting advice from so-called experts. This indecision prevented long term planning and destroyed the incentive for investment and expansion of the industry. This prevented the stability which is so necessary to motor vehicle manufacture. 
The industry was particularly threatened by the Industries Assistance Commission report on passenger motor vehicles, etc., released on 10 July 1974. This report recommended the abolition of local content plans and a lowering of tariff protection to 25 per cent. Had this report been adopted, the industry would have been destroyed. Perhaps we should not blame the IAC for the conclusions which it reached, considering the conflicting terms of reference which it was given by the Government. However, the seemingly inaccurate projections concerning market share and the effect of its recommendations on employment are indefensible. Fortunately a sufficient level of protest was raised to prevent these recommendations being implemented. These protests must have also had some influence on IAC thinking because we find in the first week of November 1975 that the IAC made a significant turn-around. It then tacitly agreed that its recommendations of 16 months earlier were not appropriate. In November 1975 it recommended that quotas of 90 000 units be introduced for a period of 12 months at a tariff rate of 45 per cent obtained and that the local content plans should continue in existence but with some change of detail. 
Since the election of 13 December  Senator Cotton  and officers of the Department of Industry and Commerce have been examining the industry and its problems in some detail. It is essential that the policy guidelines which they announce later this month establish firm and clear guidelines for the future of the industry. This, of course, will engender stability over the next decade, which is so essential 
Now some believe that Australia would be better off if it did not protect the local manufacturer of motor vehicles. They believe that cars could be imported and sold at cheaper prices to the consumer than they could be produced locally. According to this theory, local content plans supported by tariffs to protect local manufacturers using components sourced from local manufacturers cause Australians to pay more for cars than they need if there was a free import. In terms of economic theory this is a misallocation of resources and Australia would be better off concentrating its resources in areas where it has a comparative cost advantage- such as agricultureand adopting a free trade policy to imports. 
There are several weaknesses in this argument. Firstly, pricing is generally based on what the market will bear. Therefore there is no guarantee that once an overseas monopoly was established on the car market under free trade policies prices would not rise. In fact experience bears this out. There was no drop in the price of cars following the tariff cuts of July 1973. 
Other factors favouring the maintenance of the local industry are the job opportunities which it creates and the capital investment generated. Whilst it may be argued that this could be done more economically in other areas, we must face the fact that there is an existing level of employment and capital investment in vehicle manufacture and therefore Government policy has to cater for this existing capacity and employment. Nobody has yet specified to what alternative use resources currently applied to the motor vehicle industry would be applied if that industry were destroyed as a result of a free trade policy. Perhaps the most important aspect of maintaining the manufacturing industry is the fact that it generates engineering skills and management expertise. This of course reduces our dependence on overseas countries. To this must be added its contribution to our defence capacity, an important factor in a world of fluid and unstable relationships in the international sphere. 
The problem with the previous protection plans was that, although they were mildly successful in increasing the proportion of local value added to the total value of cars sold, they put the industry in a s traitjacket and made it increasingly uncompetitive. Under existing plans cost inflation has pushed up the price of local products faster than overseas products. The plans have also encouraged small scale inefficient production at the expense of large scale production. This has discouraged the application of economies of scale. Despite the high protection involved in previous plans there has been a rapid increase in the sale of imported vehicles. In 1971 and 1972 local manufacturers held 65 per cent of the market, but by 1975 this share had declined to 54 per cent. 
Australia has a worthwhile base for a viable industry, but it is essential that that industry become more competitive. One the one hand we need economic efficiency in the utilisation of our resources and need to serve the interests of consumers through lower prices, while on the other hand it is necessary to maintain a viable motor vehicle manufacturing industry. Therefore future plans must strike a balance between these 2 sides. I believe that the balance is best provided by the proposed 85 per cent local content plan. This plan gives local manufacturers greater flexibility in the sourcing of components. This of course will make them more competitive with imports of completely built up and completely knocked down units. 
The largest cost penalties in the production of motor vehicles are in low volume production of engines and body panels. Manufacturers can achieve 85 per cent local content without sourcing either of these components locally. Manufacturers of other components have claimed that under the 85 per cent plan other components also would be sourced overseas. They claim that this would lead to the destruction of component manufacturing. But I am informed that this is not a valid claim and that in fact a choice in sourcing of components would be between sourcing engines and sourcing the body panels overseas. In fact if engines are produced locally there is every likelihood that under-body panels and inner-body panels will continue to be sourced locally also. Therefore the only components sourced overseas would be the outer skins. The outer skin, with frequent model changes, is the most costly part of the motor vehicle, Tremendous capital investment is required to tool up for model changes. Therefore, to achieve the essential goal of cost competitiveness, it would be best to source outer skins from overseas. It has been claimed that this would cause unemployment in the panel pressing industry in Adelaide. I am reliably informed that under the proposed consortium with Japanese involvement there would be in fact twice as many under-body and innerbody panels produced locally as are produced in the present situation. This in turn would provide almost the same level of employment as the current production of all body panels provides. 
Therefore, for the effective and efficient utilisation of present resources it is best to build local content around mechanical components. The proposed 4 cylinder engine plant at Lonsdale under the Chrysler-Nissan Toyota consortium is an essential part of the 85 per cent local content plan. Engines may be produced more economically because they involve less tooling changes. This will ensure the long term competitiveness competitiveness the Australian manufacturers. It will also cater for the increasing market share of smaller cars which are projected to hold 80 per cent of the market by 1980. It will ensure that Australian manufacturers in the long term will increase their market share. 
Debate interrupted. 
I thank honourable members for their indulgence. The engines produced locally will ensure that Australian manufacturers in the long term increase their market share compared with overseas manufacturers and also that they will increase their sales in absolute terms. Improved efficiency and competitiveness in the local industry will also once again make Australian manufacturers an effective force in export markets. There will be far greater employment opportunities under the 85 per cent content plan with the 4-cylinder engine plant located at Lonsdale than there would be if the production of outer panels continued as an alternative. Research indicates that the Lonsdale consortium has the capacity to produce the cheapest 4- cylinder engines in Australia. The existing foundry and machine shop at Lonsdale have never been utilised to full capacity and the addition of the 4-cylinder plant will ensure that in future that capacity is fully utilised. 
So there are short term benefits and long term benefits in the 85 per cent content plan and the 4- cylinder engine plant being located at Lonsdale. The plant will involve an investment expenditure of about $100m. There will be several hundred workers involved in the construction of the plant and in providing services for that construction. Therefore there are immediate advantages in relation to unemployment. The result both in the short term and in the long term will be increased employment opportunities for people living in the Christie's Beach and Reynella areas south of Adelaide. This is, of course, the region of most rapid population growth in South Australia. 
It is essential as part of the program of the restoration of manufacturing industry that the Government establish firm guidelines for the motor industry. It will be advantageous if these guidelines include the 85 per cent content plan and acceptance of the 4-cylinder engine plant at Lonsdale. It is also essential that this plan last for at least a decade, because a decade at least is required by corporations to engage in effective corporate planning and to establish viability and stability. 
In conclusion,  Mr Speaker,  I should like to congratulate other new honourable members who have contributed their maiden speeches during this Address-in-Reply debate. As the second youngest member of this Parliament I should also like to thank the older members of longer standing for the assistance and advice they have given me since I joined them in this place. Contrary to popular opinion I have found them to be dedicated and hardworking in the interests of their constituents. I find no evidence to support the proposition put some years ago by a young predecessor in this place, also from South Australia, that members are half drunk half the time. I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and oppose the amendment. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the right honourable gentleman seen reports in today's  Australian Financial Review  that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has given a wage increase of 8.5 per cent to a section of its employees and that this agreement is outside the wage indexation guidelines laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Is it correct as reported that he is concerned by this agreement by General MotorsHolden's with some of its employees, particularly as General Motors-Holden's is seeking considerable support from the Government in the form of a return to a 95 per cent local content plan? 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation aware of the statement which appeared in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  last Sunday, 4 April, in which  Mr Alex  Hunter, National  President  of the Ex-Services Action Association, was reported to have alleged that civilians had received cosmetic surgery in Daw Park Repatriation Hospital? Hie article implied that those civilians had been given preference over entitled war and Service pensioners and that other urgent surgery had been delayed because of these operations. Is there any truth in these allegations? 
-The motor vehicle policy which was announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in the House last week provides the opportunity for the motor vehicle manufacturing industry to operate on a rational and efficient basis in the future. As such it provides an important stimulus for that industry to recover from its current state of crisis. However, the present Government's economic strategy is also of crucial importance to the future of motor vehicle manufacturing in Australia as it is of importance to the recovery to all industry in this country. Unless there is a revival of economic prosperity there will not be a revival of motor vehicle manufacturing. Costs of production in the industry must stabilise and consumer demand for the products of the industry must expand. So it is against this economic background that last week's ministerial statement concerning the motor vehicle industry must be viewed. 
Personally I am particularly pleased that the Government has endorsed the 85 per cent content plan. It was a policy which I advocated during my own election campaign in the electorate of Kingston. It was also a policy which I advocated some 5 weeks ago in my maiden speech in the House, and that was of course at a time when there was still some doubt as to which direction the Government would head in its policy decision. The adoption of this policy by the present Government also makes a mockery of the scare tactics which the honourable member for Kingsford -Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the former honourable member for Kingston used during the election campaign when they indicated that our side of politics was hostile to the 85 per cent content plan. 
A important feature of this policy is that it provides a rational balance. It provides on the one hand, a balance between the economic utilisation of resources and the need to serve the interests of consumers through lower prices and on the other hand, the need to maintain a viable motor manufacturing industry in Australia. 
There is obviously a conflict between the 2 objectives of economic and efficient industry on the one hand and high Australian content on the other hand. Therefore the relaxation of local content which is embodied in this plan will allow Australian manufacturers to remain viable under acceptable levels of protection well into the future. The plan provides a flexibility in the sourcing of components and this will enable local manufacturers to become more competitive in relation to completely built up and completely knocked down imported units. 
The previous 95 per cent content plan put the industry in a straitjacket and this was particularly so in relation to the sourcing of components which of course through the increased costs in that sphere meant that the increased costs were transmitted to the final product. This made the industry non-competitive. A return to that 95 per cent content plan would have destroyed motor vehicle manufacturing in Australia in the long term. I believe this plain fact ought to be recognised by those who have criticised the Government's policy in the week since it was announced by the Minister. This criticism has been particularly evident among certain component manufacturers. They are of the mistaken view that their own welfare would be best served under a 95 per cent content plan. They seem to ignore the fact that under the 95 per cent content plan the market share for locally manufactured vehicles has fallen from 65 per cent in 197 1 to 54 per cent in 1975. And this has occurred despite a tariff rate of 45 percent. Manufacturers would be able to regain the previous market share they held under the 95 per cent content plan only if there were a massive increase in tariff protection above 45 per cent. This would be totally unacceptable to consumers and it would be sheer economic lunacy. 
A reversion to the 95 per cent content plan under present levels of tariff protection would see local manufacturers hold a diminishing share of the market. Through that ever diminishing share it would result in their ultimate destruction. Therefore long term component manufacturers would be worse off under a return to the 95 per cent content plan than they will be under the 85 per cent plan envisaged by this Government. Because of this lower market share under the previous plan the demand for components would have shrunk accordingly. Therefore, I believe that the 85 per cent content plan is the best solution because, as I said previously, it does provide flexibility in the sourcing of components. 
Component manufacturers will certainly lose a market for part of their products. They will lose a market for items which suffer a high cost disability in relation to overseas components. However, when that does occur it will enable vehicle manufacturers to maintain cost competitiveness. Therefore the local vehicle manufacturers will on that basis increase their overall market share and there will be an increased market for the still significant proportion of components which remain sourced in Australia. Also by ensuring the long term viability of motor manufacturing this will equally ensure the long term viability of component manufacturers. However, component manufacturers will have to survive on the basis of a more economic and narrower range of products. The key to the survival of component manufacturers will be component specialisation, not component diversification in which they are currently involved. This is what the Government's policy provides for and it will particularly assist this by encouraging commonality of components between various motor vehicle manufacturers. 
As well as looking at cost disadvantages which local motor vehicle manufacturers have faced I believe the Government should now look at the cost disadvantages which some component manufacturers are facing because of the high protection afforded to a number of raw materials. We can cite some examples of this. In 1975 Uniroyal was paying 50 per cent more for Australian synthetic rubber because of tariff protection than comparative manufacturers in the United States, Canada, Japan or Europe. Similarly last year- when Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd began to manufacture steel cords for use in steel radial tyres this cost Uniroyal $ 1 .75 per kilogram compared with $1.45 per kilogram which Uniroyal had previously paid for imported cords. 
The 85 per cent content plan provides the opportunity for motor vehicle manufacturers to have this flexibility in the sourcing of components, but I believe the Government should look further and provide component manufacturers with a similar flexibility in the sourcing of raw materials. This would enable component manufacturers to maintain also cost competitiveness in relation to imported components. 
This, of course, would be a most effective way of ensuring the long term viability of component manufacturers. It would be determined on the basis of economic utilisation of resources. 
So the policy announced by the Government initiates changes in the motor vehicle manufacturing sector. I believe that we can perhaps go one step further and initiate further change in relation to component manufacture. 
A particularly pleasing aspect of the policy is that it involves managed change. It plots the path to the ultimate goal of a more efficient and competitive industry with a minimum of disruption in the interim period. The other factor which particularly pleases me is that it is a plan for a decade. This, of course, is so important for manufacturing industry. It is important that they have a long term period in which they can engage in effective corporate planning. The policy also provides the opportunity and climate for the 4- cylinder engine plant to go ahead at Lonsdale under the Chrysler-Nissan-Toyota consortium. 
To ensure cost competitiveness in Australia we need one 4-cylinder engine plant. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. Is the report in this morning's  Australian  newspaper correct that the Government is looking at the possibility of increasing the number of non-smoking seats on aircraft - 
-Is the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware of reports in the media of an alleged statement by a  Mr John  Bulbeck that the Australian Government delegation to the United Nations Habitat Conference on Human Settlement to be held shortly in Canada is in a mess and that there will not be a Minister leading the Australian delegation? Is this criticism correct? What is the Government's attitude to the Habitat Conference? 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that a person recently appointed to the Board of Qantas Airways Ltd has close associations with one of the Government parties? Is the Government embarking on a program of jobs for the boys, which was so abhorrent in the previous Labor Administration? 
-Can the Prime Minister advise the House of the present situation regarding Aboriginal unemployment? 
Following the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  I rise to defend democracy. The honourable member is not in the chamber at the moment. In his remarks, the honourable member for Port Adelaide again raised the old furphy of the so called 'Playmander ' which was alleged to have kept the Playford Government in office in South Australia for so long. In fact, recent accurate analyses of voting figures show quite clearly that only twice in its record period of office of 32 years was the Playford Government elected with a minority of votes. It was the marvellous performance of the Playford Government which kept it in office over those many years. The South Australian people have been conned in the last decade or so by the Australian Labor Party and by ALP-leaning academics, one of whom I understand is to be the next member for Bonython. These people say that the Playford Government was kept in office with a minority of votes. That was not the case as has been shown by those voting analyses. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide put forward the view that one vote one value means equal numbers of voters in each electorate. This is absolute nonsense. What one vote one value means is that government should change hands when one party achieves 50 per cent or more of the vote on a 2-party preferred vote basis. That is the essential criterion for determining one vote one value. The party with 50 per cent or more of the vote on a two party preferred vote basis should be the government. This is not the case in South Australia under the current electoral set-up. It will certainly be even worse under the proposed redistribution. At the State election last year the Labor Party gained office with less than 50 per cent of the vote while the Liberal Party had more than 50 per cent of the vote. 
Under this new redistribution the Liberal Party will have to attain 54 per cent of the votes to obtain office in South Australia at the next State election. Fifty-four per cent! What a 'Donnymander' that is! The Liberal Party has not appealed against this redistribution because it can appeal only within the terms of reference provided by the South Australian Government. The 'Donnymander' is contained in those very terms of reference; so there is no value in appealing against that redistribution. Unless you take account of the demographic structure of Adelaide, particularly the Adelaide suburbs and the distribution of voting patterns, you cannot have a one vote one value voting system in South Australia. So purely within the terms of reference given by the South Australian Government to the Electoral Commission, the Labor Party came up with a clear 'Donnymander' in its redistribution. Unless the 50 per cent pivot point is taken into account there will be no future for democracy in that State. The Labor Party will remain in office with 46 per cent of the vote. 
Despite that 'Donnymander' people are beginning to wake up to our Premier. They are realising that his apparent trendiness is not building the sort of society they want in South Australia. It is not providing for their needs and it is not providing jobs. Because of the policies pursued by the Dunstan Government, South Australia is stagnating more than any other State in the Commonwealth. South Australia has lost its advantages in terms of cost of production which it had over many other States for many years. Despite the fact that the Liberal Party needs 54 per cent of the vote, it will attain 54 per cent at the next election and will throw the Labor Party out of office. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that, despite the assurances given by the Minister for Education that the level of financial assistance for students was being closely examined, a minority of tertiary students conducted a strike last week over allowances paid under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of removing allowances from those students who went on strike and using those funds, in addition to other funds, to increase the allowances of those students who remained diligently at their studies last week? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I wish to draw the attention of the House to a report which appears in the  Australian  newspaper of today's date which is headed 'Cut off aid to striking students, MP urges'. The article deals with a question which I asked in the House yesterday. The second paragraph of the article reads: 

 Mr H. G. Chapman (S.A.), representing the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  asked  Mr Ian  Viner . . . 
It then goes on to detail the question. While it is gratifying to have one's political progress noted, I am afraid that my progress in the political sphere has not been that rapid. I do not yet have the privilege of representing the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in this House. That privilege belongs to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  of whom I asked the question yesterday. I believe that the report should be amended accordingly. 
-This evening I wish to commend the Commonwealth Government's generous allocation of funds to local government. In South Australia inaccurate attacks have been made on the level of Commonwealth funding for local government by the South Australian Minister for Local Government,  Mr Geoff  Virgo, and more recently by the secretary of the Western Regional Council No. 2,  Mr Jim  Hullick, according to reports in the  Guardian  newspaper.  Mr Hullick  has claimed that despite a 75 per cent increase in untied grants to local government, because specific purpose payments have been reduced, the gross amount for local government has been reduced. 
It is time that the facts were put straight. Untied grants to local councils in South Australia total $11,925,000. This is a 75.2 per cent increase in money terms compared with last year's grant of $6,785,000. Allowing for the effects of inflation this results in an increase of 81.5 per cent in real terms. The $11,925,000 South Australia has received represents 8.52 per cent of the total Australiawide untied grants for local government this year compared with 8.49, per cent last year. The $140m Australia-wide grant this year represents 1.52 per cent of personal income tax collections, compared with 1.04 per cent last year. These last figures in particular lay to rest  Mr Virgo  's misrepresentation. 
It is true that specific purpose payments to local government, both direct and via the States, have been reduced, in line with the Governments expenditure cuts to overcome the deficit problems it inherited from Labor's financial incompetence. Despite this, total payments to local government in South Australia by the Commonwealth Government amount to $14,182,000, an increase in real terms, after allowing for inflation, of 15.9 per cent over last year's amount. Local government in South Australia has received 7.3 per cent of total Australia-wide Commonwealth Government assistance to local government this year compared with 7 per cent last year. Hence, overall, substantial real increases in Commonwealth Government assistance to local government in South Australia have been provided. Messrs Virgo and Hullick should have the good grace to recognise this and commend the Commonwealth Government rather than seeking cheap political points based on inaccuracy. I emphasise that the significant feature of the funding is the 81.5 per cent increase in real terms in untied grants. This $1 1,925,000 is available for local government to spend as it decides, without direction from Canberra or North Terrace in Adelaide. 
Many councils and regions did not receive specific purpose payments under the Labor Government anyway, for example, southern region No. 4 in South Australia did not receive any specific purpose payments. So that component of funding is quite irrelevant to their welfare. The massive increases in untied grants are the important factor in their minds. This gives local people the right to decide what is best for them. The interim Grants Commission has announced this week that Glenelg Council will receive $106,000, Brighton Council $147,000, Marion Council $466,000 and Noarlunga Council $425,000 as their share of the $11,925,000 allocated to South Australia. Each council has expressed to me its satisfaction with these funds. It should be noted that the Commonwealth Government will pay these funds at the earliest opportunity in a lump sum to councils, not in dribs and drabs as occurred previously. This will be a significant benefit to council finances. I believe these 4 councils will spend this untied money very wisely on behalf of local residents. 

 Mr Hullick has also claimed that local government is to be inadequately represented at the national level on the soon to be established Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations, with only 3 local government members on the Council compared with 6 Federal, 6 State and 6 community representatives. In fact the legislation introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 23 September and further debated today provides for 6 local government members compared with 5 Federal, 6 State and 5 community representatives. Contrary to  Mr Hullick  's statement this clearly shows the Commonwealth Government's commitment to local government and devolution of power as part of its overall federalism policy. 
-In speaking on the estimates for the Department of Transport, I particularly wish to commend the Government's provision of $64,600,000 for urban public transport projects. This is nearly twice last year's allocation of $34,096,000. It represents a massive increase in real terms. It is a generous allocation when we consider that the overall transport allocation was only able to be increased marginally because of the Government's attention to reducing the deficit it inherited from the previous Labor Government. 
Urban public transport must be given increased attention to contribute to the quality of people's lives. This is particularly so in the rapidly growing outer suburbs such as Reynella, 
Morphett Vale, Christies Beach, Hackham and Port Noarlunga south of Adelaide in the Kingston electorate. The Government's generous allocation in this sphere shows that it does care about people. 
In our society the motor car is and will remain the dominant and a necessary form of transport. Some would seek to destroy the use of motor cars completely. I refer to a recent article in the  Arena  magazine entitled 'The Transport Trap' by a  Mr Don  Atkinson. He advocated the replacement of the motor car by public transport so as to destroy private enterprise in the form of motor vehicle manufacturing and thereby bring about the establishment of socialism. I am sure that the workers at Chrysler Australia Ltd would not appreciate having their jobs destroyed by the implementation of such ideological nonsense. It is an ideology which  Mr Atkinson  no doubt shares with members of the Labor Party. Such a policy is foolish in economic terms and ignores the real value of the motor car as a useful form of transport. However, it needs to be recognised that the motor car is not adequate to serve everyone 's transport needs. Half the population of Australia do not even have licences and therefore are totally precluded from access to the freedom which a motor car provides. 
Increasing traffic congestion in peak periods makes the motor car less viable as a form of transport for commuting to work, particularly to the central business districts of our capital cities. The increasing costs of motoring both in terms of capital cost and in terms of day to day running costs is also another factor which mitigates against the viability of the motor car as a universally satisfactory form of transport. Of course day to day running costs will become worse as Australian oil supplies continue to be depleted. 
Hence there is a need to encourage the development of adequate public transport faculties. This is implied in the Government's generous allocation of funds to the States. This encouragement should be undertaken in a positive way. There is a need to look at the movement pattern needs of people. It is time for new thinking and new ideas in the public transport sphere. There is a need to look for new alternatives. This is preferable to a policy of deliberately downgrading the viability and mobility of motor car users and thereby forcing travellers on to inadequate public transport systems. This system has failed in the past and it will continue to fail unless a new approach is taken. - Adelaide has a unique opportunity to initiate change in this sphere. By comparison with other major cities it has a small population and geographic area which needs to be serviced by public transport. Therefore it would be less costly to implement adequate new schemes. Adelaide is also not yet experiencing the severe traffic problems of Sydney and Melbourne. Hence there is a chance to act before it is too late. However, I repeat: If public transport is adequately to serve the needs of people, we need to look at new concepts. It is no good providing more of the same such as more big buses even if we make them more trendy by fitting air conditioning. 
In the suburbs of the Noarlunga region which I mentioned earlier and which are located in the Kingston electorate, poor transport facilities considerably reduce the quality of life for the people living there. The economic depression which we suffered under Labor meant that job opportunities in that local area have not kept pace with the rapid population growth. Many people therefore have to commute long distances to work. That is not too bad if they work in the city centre of Adelaide. But to travel anywhere else they have to go into Adelaide and then travel out again to their respective suburb. Therefore, there is one significant need and that is to reduce the convergence of public transport systems on the Adelaide city centre. It is important to establish cross suburban transport routes. These need to be based on a detailed study of movement patterns. 
It is equally important to serve the needs of housewives and children. They also need an adequate public transport system to serve them within their local area. Fulfilment of their needs requires facilities to provide access to shopping, medical care and schools within their local area. There is also a need for feeder transport to the points of departure of transport out of the local area to Adelaide or elsewhere. Also, for such a feeder service to operate efficiently there will be a need for transport interchanges to be provided and located at these major points of departure. 
It should be noted that the bicycle is making a comeback as a form of tansport over relatively short distances, yet there is no provision on trains or other forms of public transport for the carriage of bicycles. Such a provision would allow the use of bicycles to and from a train or other form of transport at each end of the journey. This, of course, would greatly increase the mobility of commuters. As an adjunct to this, consideration also needs to be given to the provision of cycling tracks in many areas. 
In serving the needs of people who are dependent on public transport the question of extending the hours of operation of public transport should be considered urgently. This is particularly so if public transport is to be an adequate alternative to the motor car. This may in turn require a more flexible approach by transport workers and their union leadership to working conditions. If extended operating hours, which would be required to provide greater flexibility of public transport, are going to be effective, they would need to avoid being cost prohibitive. This may require an easing of penalty wage loadings or perhaps the employment of part time staff to make such a system viable. Hence, overall there is a serious need for an integrated and complementary public transport system to serve the needs of the people adequately. 
The very generous allocation of $64,600,000 by the Commonwealth Government to the States -nearly doubling last year's allocation- gives the States the resources to get on with the job. It represents two-thirds of the costs of approved urban public transport projects. It is important that the States should use these funds wisely in initiating worthwhile projects. There must be good management and rigorous evaluation of the cost effectiveness of projects. Steps should also be taken to ensure that there is adequate and improved productivity from existing services and a maximum use of existing capital facilities. In this way buses which may be idle during off-peak periods could be used to provide the inter-suburb and local transport services which I mentioned earlier. It is to these details that State governments should apply themselves. 
I also look forward to continued Commonwealth Government involvement in the sphere of urban public transport. Continued funds should be available to the States for this important sphere, whether on the basis of tied grants or, as the federalism policy is implemented, on an untied grants basis. The Commonwealth also has the resources to undertake research and development, and to provide encouragement and innovative ideas which may be adopted by more than one State. I particularly hope that this role continues to benefit the increasing number of people in the major cities of Australia who are dependent on public'transport to a very great degree for their mobility. 
-In this debate on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department I wish to raise the matter of Australian Broadcasting Commission programming. I accept the need for a small reduction in the funds available to the ABC from the Government in this Budget compared with last year in accord with the expenditure restraint which is required to reduce the Budget deficit we inherited from the previous Labor Government. That is essential if we are to overcome Australia's major economic problem of inflation. That economic thrust should receive the highest priority. However, within the funds allocated to the ABC it is important that the ABC carefully evaluates its expenditure. The role of the ABC as a national broadcasting service is to benefit the listening audience by providing programs of value to it. Funds should be allocated to programs on that basis. 
I particularly wish to direct attention to programming changes which affect Adelaide. The tradition has developed for the ABC's Radio One network to present its own separate program in each capital city. As a result, in Adelaide programs such as  Remember,  presented by Bob Caldicott,  Saturday Date,  presented by Ian Beattie and  Music to Midnight,  presented by Geoff Hiscock, have become institutionalised and popular among Adelaide audiences which listen to radio station 5AN. Apart from the personalities involved and the quality of the musical program presented, these programs are popular for another important reason. Local production allows local flavour to be incorporated in these programs. Such programs have a capacity to reflect the moods and preferences of the local community. Local people are involved in preparing these programs and, therefore, know how the local community ticks. They know the items which would be of interest to the listening audience and can plan their programs on that basis. Local program content and production also generates work in the local community. It provides an outlet for local talent and an opportunity for that talent to be used creatively. Hence there are several important reasons favouring the retention of local programming. 
I am therefore concerned that the ABC has decided to abolish local programming on Radio One throughout Australia as from 3 1 October. In Adelaide this affects particularly radio station 5AN. In the evening time slots local programs will be replaced by network programs, that is, programs broadcast from one location in Australia nationally right around the country. Hence local content will be lost. This is of some concern to communities like Adelaide which have their own local identity. This change has been made allegedly on the basis of cost saving and to make more efficient use of resources. However, savings- for example, in overtime penalty payments to the five or six people who will be redeployed in other areas- should be balanced against the extra cost of using an interstate landline which will be involved in networking. I am informed the overall net savings to the ABC's operations in South Australia will be approximately $10,000 per annum in a total expected allocation of approximately $10m. That represents a saving of approximately 0.1 per cent. 
While saving money is extemely important in the current economic and budgetary circumstances, I urge the ABC to have a close look at the situation in cost-benefit terms. It could well be that the benefits lost to the community of Adelaide and the ABC in that community far outweigh the relatively minor cost saving in this instance. Radio station 5AN may have only a small minority of the total radio listening audience in the evenings; however, an important role of the ABC is to provide for the taste of such a discerning minority. It would be a great pity if this minority, which prefers the local programs of the ABC to commercial stations, were to be lost to the ABC as a listening audience because of the abolition of local programs. In fact, with the abolition of local programs on 5 AN we may well find there is an audience with no place of refuge. 
The second network of the ABC, Radio Two, which is represented in Adelaide by radio station 5CL, has for a long time operated on a national relay basis. Therefore, on Radio One there is a place for local content. I understand that under the new scheme one program a week- a rock music program on Monday nights- will be produced for the national relay in the Adelaide studios of the ABC. However, inevitably that program will have a national flavour. This is not an adequate substitute for current local programs. It will not make up for the loss of local identity which will occur with the abandonment of local programs. If I may paraphrase him,  Sir Charles  Curran, the Director-General of the British Broadcasting Corporation, said: 'Radio exists to serve the community in which it exists'. 
I believe that programs produced within the community to which the particular radio station broadcasts are an important part of that service to the community. Hence there is a particular need for local content. I therefore implore the ABC to look again at the distribution of resources within its total budgetary allocation to see whether extra funds can be found to allow the local evening programs to continue in Adelaide. Alternatively some arrangement should be made to allow some continuation of local content in another form. If such a review shows continuation to be impossible in the short term, I urge that local programs be re-instituted in the future when more resources become available as a result of the improvement in the economy which will occur because of the sound economic management of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. The benefits which flow from local program content to the community with a local identity, such as we have in Adelaide, to the ABC operating within that community and to those who work in the ABC are such that its provision deserves the highest priority. 
-An article in this morning's  Age  indicated that a group of academics has alleged the Commonwealth Government has abandoned its interest in the problems of urban areas. This misrepresentation should be corrected. The Commonwealth Government has not abandoned its involvement in solving the problems of urban areas. These critics should recognise that the Government is not able to draw on a bottomless pit of money to spend on all the projects it or the community may regard as desirable. The Australian Labor Party in Government thought that there was a bottomless pit. In spending well beyond what the country could afford, it created economic problems. 
-That is exactly right. It created the economic problems that this Government is now valiantly trying to solve. The reduction in the budgetary allocations for urban affairs should be considered in this light. To reduce inflation and restore growth, the deficit inherited from Labor has to be reduced without increasing taxation. Hence, Government spending has to be reduced. In the longer term, the reduction of inflation resulting from this Government's sound economic management will benefit urban development by allowing more facilities to be provided for each dollar spent. 
The Commonwealth Government's revitalised approach to federalism is another important factor when considering the allocation of funds to urban affairs. Under the new approach to federalism, with tax sharing the States are entitled to 33.6 per cent of the Commonwealth Government's collections of personal income tax. This will provide an increase of 2 1 per cent over comparable grants last year. The key factor in this is that not only will the States have more money but also a greater part of this money as untied grants. Decreases in specific funds for urban development are counteracted by a large rise in the financial allocation to the States in the form of untied grants. The States now have the capacity to choose their own priorities, be they welfare housing, sewerage or other services. 
A third factor in relation to the Commonwealth's allocation of funds is its initiation of a review of all major urban and regional development programs and the appropriate role of the Commonwealth in this sphere. The Australian Labor Party claims much credit for alleged initiatives in the sphere of urban affairs with the establishment of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, but it should be remembered that it was the McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government which initiated action in this area with the establishment of the National urban and regional development authority. Despite the fanfare, Labor's administration in the field of urban development failed. Labor failed to grasp the problems associated with implementing programs on an intergovernmental basis. The Labor Government assumed the role of de facto policy dictator. It attempted to coerce State and local authorities to change their aims and priorities and their planning procedures to accommodate these new Commonwealth programs. No real attention was paid to existing State legislation and policy priorities. By the end of 1975 it was clear that despite the expenditure of vast sums of money the Labor Government had failed to make any real impact on the problems of urban growth. The money spent had not produced results on the ground. Hence the current review is necessary and timely to ensure that in the future real results are obtained from Commonwealth Government activity in this sphere. 
I have had some experience in these matters in representing the Kingston electorate. In the Kingston electorate, the area to the south of O'Halloran Hill known as the Noarlunga region is a key example of urban growth in Adelaide. The recent census reveals it to be one of the fastest growing areas in Australia. Hence the provision of adequate services and facilities is of urgent necessity for people in this area. It is important that balanced and co-ordinated development take place to ensure that residential allotments are available serviced with water, sewerage and other facilities, to fulfil demand. It should be recognised that Noarlunga is a major urban area by Australian standards. Hence it is important that it be given high priority by both the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments. In this sphere there is opportunity for co-operation between the Commonwealth and State governments, as is implied in the new federalism policy of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I confidently look forward to a continuing Commonwealth interest in the problems of outer suburbs like those of the Noarlunga region. Urbanisation and its consequences are probably the greatest human problem facing modern industrial society. Finding the solution to this problem is a task of national importance and therefore requires Commonwealth Government involvement. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of Press reports that he has initiated an inquiry into the allegations made by MajorGeneral Stretton? Can the Minister tell me the nature and extent of the inquiry? Will he make available the documents presented to the Government yesterday? 
-This evening I wish to raise a matter of discrimination against women. In these enlightened days the opportunities for women have been greatly expanded. Most of us, of course, reject the extremist position of some feminists who, like all extremists who jump on a particular bandwagon, are seeking to use the women's movement purely to pursue their own extreme left wing political and economic ends. Nevertheless there is a strong case for continuing to pursue the elimination of discrimination against women where it exists. 
It would seem to me that the Australian Defence Force continues to be a bastion of such discrimination. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland knows that that is not a point of order. I suggest a certain degree of reasonableness in the debate. 
In May of this year I took up with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the case of a constituent of mine, Miss Elizabeth Palmer, who is currently a matriculation student. Miss Palmer is a talented young musician and she had applied to join the Army band corps at the Adelaide recruiting centre. She undertook various interviews, auditions and tests associated with this application and, according to the officers involved, she passed these tests with flying colours. In fact, she looked set for a distinguished musical career in the Army. Then, 2 days before her final medical test the Adelaide recruiting office was advised by the authorities in Canberra that they were not taking women into the band corps and her application was therefore refused. However, subsequent advertisements showed that the band corps was still recruiting men to this sphere of activity. 
The Minister advised me in July that a review of the employment of women in the armed forces was being undertaken with the aim of evolving common corps for each Service with like conditions and responsibility for male and female members. The aim was to redress areas identified as discriminatory to women. The Minister said that he was awaiting advice on the implementation of an effective program to bring about this aim. Of course, it was necessary to phase this program in because of practical problems, such as accommodation, changes to Service regulations, training requirementss and the primary and secondary combatant roles of various employment categories. The Minister's answer to a question from the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  a fortnight ago indicates that this review is still going on some 6 months after I first raised the matter with him. 
It would seem that the Department is a little tardy in completing its review and coming forward with appropriate advice on which the Minister could act in this matter. Women are already employed in the Army in at least 14 areas- in the survey trades, signal trades, as linguists, in the transport trades, in the nursing corps, in the dental area, in the ordinance trades, in catering, as military police, psychologists, publication illustrators, physical training instructors, as quartermasters and air traffic controllers. There would therefore seem to be no justifiable reason for excluding women from the army band corps. Paragraph 15 of chapter 5 of the Defence White Paper recently tabled in this House states that the Government intends that women in the Services should now have greater job opportunities and closer equality with men in training and conditions of service. It was also accepted that women would be permitted to serve in areas where hostilities were in progress but that they would not be employed as combatants or at sea. 
With regard to the last point it could well be said that the distinction between combatant and non-combatant roles is blurred by the degree of technology in modern warfare. Certainly, the Army band corps must be accepted as a noncombatant role and should therefore definitely be open to women. Opportunities for women in the Australian Army are severely restricted by comparison with the United States Army where, of course,  President  Ford in October signed a Bill authorising women to attend Service academies, and that was a major step forward. Women hold senior positions right through the Armed forces in that country. I therefore urge the Minister to have this review of women's role in the Army completed as quickly as possible and to implement policies which will broaden opportunities for women in the armed forces. Particularly as a Liberal I would urge him to do so because I believe that we, as a Liberal Government, should support the rights of individuals to have their opportunities expanded to undertake a career of their choice. 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that Australian automotive component manufacturers, although supporting the Government's devaluation decision, are concerned that immediately following this decision the London Metal Exchange increased the price of zinc, along with the price of other non-ferrous materials, by 19 per cent? Is the Minister further aware that this increase will have an overall effect on costs in the motor vehicle manufacturing industry of between 2 per cent and 3 per cent and, more importantly, could seriously affect the viability of rear vision mirror and seat belt manufacturing in South Australia? Can the Minister explain how an Australian mined and produced raw material can be increased in price immediately following devaluation, without apparently being referred to the Prices Justification Tribunal for approval? 
-Is the Minister for - Transport aware of recent newspaper advertisements by Qantas Airways Limited and British Airways Corporation which gave readers the immediate impression that they would be able to save $450 on return flights to Britain from 1 April, when in fact these cheaper fares do not apply until flights in October? Will the Minister ensure that in future Qantas and British Airways abide by the spirit as well as the letter of the trade practices legislation in relation to their advertising? 
I wish to express very great concern at the attitude of the South Australian Labor Government to this Commonwealth Government. Ever since the Commonwealth Government came to office on 13 December 1975 with overwhelming community support, the Dunstan Government has continually misrepresented the position of this Government on a range of issues and then indulged in criticism of that misrepresented position. State Ministers from the Premier down have engaged in this sport. 
The position is best exemplified by referring to the State Minister of Transport and Local Government,  Mr Virgo.  Throughout last year, he launched a series of ill-founded attacks on the Commonwealth Government. Not having learnt his lesson from last year, I see that recently he has been at it again. On the most recent occasion he was criticising the Commonwealth's proposed allocation of funds for road works. In particular, he condemned the alleged reduction in funds for this area of government expenditure. 
The total proposed allocation to South Australia by the Commonwealth for assistance for roads in 1977-78 is $40.4m. This represents an increase of $1.6m or 4.1 per cent over the $38. 8m provided in 1976-77. Allowing for some increases in costs through inflation, which is still a problem- it is a legacy of the spending sprees of the Whitlam Government- this represents a decrease in real terms. 
However, merely to look blandly at these figures provides a gross misrepresentation of the real situation. Firstly, the Commonwealth Government has specific responsibility for management of the economy. It is responsible for providing an environment for the restoration of economic prosperity which Australia enjoyed before it suffered the devastation of 3 years of incompetent economic management by Labor. Of course the necessary pre-requisite for that is to reduce the level of inflation which was created by Labor. The policies of this Government have been directed to that end. 
An essential part of this policy is holding Budget outlays next year within zero real growth to reduce the Budget deficit. The rapid increase in government spending and consequent horrific deficit created by Labor were a major contributing factor to inflation. The Commonwealth allocation to roads must therefore be seen in the light of this necessity to stop increases in government spending. The battle against inflation is and must remain the Government's first priority and major objective. 
Notwithstanding this, it should be emphasised that the roads which most people in South Austalia use in going about their everyday lives will receive an increase in funds in real terms. These are the roads which are covered by the Roads Grants Act, namely urban local, urban arterial, rural local, rural arterial and MITERS. The total proposed allocation of $22.2m to these types of roads in South Australia represents an increase of $3.4m or 18.1 per cent over the $ 18.8m allocated in 1976-77. After allowing for cost escalation, this represents a real increase of 4.5 per cent. If one looks at the total allocation to all States for these categories of roads we see that a money increase of 5.4 per cent will be provided compared with South Australia's 18.1 per cent increase. So in fact South Australia is doing exceptionally well by comparison with other States in receiving funds for those roads which most people use from day to day. It is in the area of national highways that South Australia has suffered a reduction. While this may be regrettable in the short term, it is necessary in the Government's overall budgetary context. However, it should be noted that this relates to relatively few roads, and they are not those which most people use in their everyday lives. I repeat that those roads which are serving local communities both in city and country areas will receive real increased assistance. 
It should also be noted that within the total allocation there will be large increases for roads which come under local government jurisdiction. Proposed grants for urban local roads in South Australia for 1977-78 amount to $2.2m. This represents a 100 per cent increase over the $ 1 . 1 m allocated in 1976-77. The allocation for rural local roads is $6. 7m- a 26.4 per cent increase over the $4.3m provided in 1976-77. This shows clearly the Commonwealth Government's determination to ensure that there is adequate provision for roads in local government areas. This allocation has been praised by  Mr Andrew  Walls, the Director of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. This increased direct allocation to local government is a significant policy initiative. It shows the real commitment of the Commonwealth Government to its policy of federalism and to bringing government closer to the people. 
All these factors, of course, serve to emphasise the gross misrepresentation in which  Mr Virgo  has indulged. 
However, the best is yet to come. State and local governments must share the responsibility with the Commonwealth of making funds available for road works. The Commonwealth 's share of total roads expenditure increased from 32 per cent in 1969-70 to 36 per cent in 1975-76. In the same period, the share of State government funding declined from 34 per cent to 32 per cent. That of local government did likewise- it declined from 34 per cent to 32 per cent over the same period. The lack of real concern by the South Australian Government and also by  Mr Virgo  for roads, except to use them as a tool for political point scoring, is shown by the most recent figures available which indicate the proportion of the total budget outlays allocated by the Commonwealth and State governments to roads. The South Australian outlay on roads as a proportion of its total Budget expenditure has fallen from 3.5 per cent in 1970-71 to 2.3 percent in 1974-75. This represents a decrease of 44 per cent. By comparison, the Commonwealth Government's allocation to roads as a percentage of total Budget allocation has decreased from 2.8 per cent in 1 970-7 1 to 2. 1 per cent in 1974-75- a decrease of only 25 per cent compared with the decrease of 44 per cent in the State Government's allocation. Preliminary figures available for the most recent years show that this trend is still evident. This gives the real lie to  Mr Virgo's  criticism of the Commonwealth Government. 
Notwithstanding the problems of economic management, the Commonwealth Government is giving a higher relative priority to roads than is the South Australian Government. 
It is, therefore, time that Messrs Virgo and Dunstan and the South Australian Government got right behind the Commonwealth Government in its very difficult task of restoring economic stability, instead of misrepresenting and abusing the Commonwealth Government to cover its own inadequacies. It is time we saw some statesmanship on the part of the South Australian Government. The Commonwealth Government has adopted a very statesmanlike attitude. It is not easy to take away funds once they have been allocated to projects. It is not easy to take away benefits from people once funds have been allocated in previous years. The Commonwealth Government has taken that attitude. It has adopted that statesmanlike approach as a necessary basis for bringing about economic recovery in Australia. Yet the South Australian Government is indulging in cheap, political point scoring against the Commonwealth Government for the policies it has initiated in this area. 
The South Australian people are getting sick and tired of the attitude adopted by  Mr Dunstan  and his ministerial colleagues in South Australia in continually misrepresenting the position of the Commonwealth Government on a range of issues and then engaging in criticism of that position. I am sure that the people of South Australia would be far more impressed if they saw a statesmanlike approach adopted by  Mr Dunstan  and his colleagues and saw them getting right behind the policies of the Commonwealth Governmentthe policies which are justified and necessary if this country is to fight its way out of the economic depression into which it was launched by the spending sprees and the economic incompetence of the Whitlam Government of 1 972 to 1975. 
-This evening I wish to draw attention to a scandalous and sad situation for those of us who believe that women's shelters have a valuable role to play in our community. The issue I wish to raise relates to the mismanagement of the Naomi Women's Shelter in Adelaide, and particularly the involvement of a  Ms A  Wilcox m the problems of that shelter.  Ms Wilcox  is a Labor Party activist who, on previous occasions, has caused embarrassment to the Dunstan Government. The matter of the abuse of taxpayers' money at this shelter has already been debated in the South Australian Parliament. I need therefore only refer briefly to the main elements this evening. A statutory declaration shows that  Ms Wilcox  as secretary of the Management Committee ran this organisation without reference to the trustees or the  chairman, Mrs Delores  Gill, refused to call meetings and obstructed the  chairman  in her legal obligations. 
She hired inappropriate staff. She used government money dishonestly by charging a percentage loading on food costs. She misappropriated government money by purchasing a vehicle unsuitable for the centre's needs for her own personal use. She used the facilities and staff of the shelter in a Labor Party pre-selection campaign. She deposited shelter moneys in a private bank account. 
All these actions are contrary to the intended way in which women's shelters should operate. In particular, they are detrimental to the welfare of the women who are dependent on this shelter.  Ms Wilcox  abused a facility provided by the tax- g ayers for people in need to serve her own ends. n this matter the Dunstan Government indulged in a massive cover-up. If it had not been for the probing of the Liberal Opposition that Government's incompetence in administering taxpayers' money or, should one say, its protection of one of its own activists, would not have been brought to light. When the Government was cornered it tried to blame the Federal Government in the State Parliament and also in a letter which  Mr Dunstan  wrote to  Mrs Gill.  Referring particularly to the vehicle purchase, Premier Dunstan said: 
The van was bought with Federal funds, and is not a matter for the State Government 
That is patently not true. Funds for women's shelters are provided under community health projects. Commonwealth financial assistance for community health projects in the States take the form of annual block grants covering each State's total program of projects, including projects conducted by non-government organisations such as the Naomi Women's Refuge. It is a matter for the States to make allocation to individual projects from within their respective block grants. The State authorities are regarded as having primary responsibility for the administration of projects operated by the States and for the immediate supervision of projects operated by nongovernment organisations, such as Naomi Women's Refuge, thus ensuring that the nature and standard of services are appropriate and that public moneys are duly accounted for. 
Is there no end to the ways the Dunstan Government will squirm from its obligations? It condemns the Federal Government for not giving enough funds on the one hand, then, on the other hand, when funds are provided it ignores its supervisory responsibility. This, of course, indicates the real reason why  Mr Dunstan  objects to the new federalism. It is not that funds will be cut but that he will have to accept more responsibility. Responsibility is something on which the 
Labor Party anywhere has never scored highly. Then, with the ball back in its own court on this issue, the State Government tried to put the responsibility on to the women themselves. The South Australian Community Welfare Minister,  Mr Payne,  said in State Parliament: 
The Management Committee and some others wish to run the show. That is their business and not mine. It is up to them to run their own affairs and up to women especially to run the affairs of women 's shelters. 
The administrative arrangements show that the State Government is responsible for supervising the use of funds. The Dunstan Government again stands condemned for its incompetence and dishonesty. 
The real tragedy is that in the Kingston electorate the women's shelter at Christies Beach, run by dedicated and competent people, is struggling desperately to survive, starved of funds. The State Government has refused to provide funds for it from the Commonwealth Government grant for this purpose. But the Naomi shelter, run by a Labor Party hack, is so flush with funds that abuses are occurring right, left and centre. This is a clear case for the Commonwealth Government to step in, override the State Government, remove the funding from the Naomi shelter and give it to a deserving one such as the Christies Beach shelter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Firstly, I oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford -Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and wish to address a few remarks to his speech this evening. He mentioned that the States are currently funding 83 per cent of technical and further education. Of course this is the case because the primary responsibility for technical and further education remains with the States. Notwithstanding this fact, the Commonwealth has provided the largest real increase in its overall funding for education to the technical and further education sphere- an increase of 5 per cent on recurrent expenditure- and has also maintained the capital level at its existing rate. This is despite the fact that in many areas of government expenditure cuts have been introduced in recurrent and capital expenditure. These cuts have been brought about because of the economic chaos created by the Labor Government during its term of office. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith also mentioned that he believed this Government was downgrading technical and further education by incorporating that sector within the Tertiary Education Commission. The real situation is that technical and further education will have a more effective voice than previously because of its participation in the Tertiary Education Commission. In this Commission it will be able to argue its relative merits against the merits of both the College of Advanced Education aspect and the university aspect of tertiary education. By incorporating technical and further education within the Tertiary Education Commission the Government is not downgrading but is in fact enhancing the capacity of technical and further education to obtain government assistance. 
Both education Bills before the House this evening, I believe, have importance as far as vocational education is concerned, that is, education directed specifically towards obtaining employment. 
The Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill concerns long service leave for New South Wales technical teachers joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Therefore, it will have some impact on technical education at the secondary level- that form of education which I believe is of greatest direct relevance to obtaining employment. This is particularly true in today's employment situation. Despite the unemployment created by Labor's disastrous economic policies there is still a shortage of tradesmen over a wide range of jobs. 
The Tertiary Education Commission Bill will have a direct impact on technical education at the post-school level. This is becoming an increasingly important area. It is an area of real importance to Australia's future development, productive capacity and growth in prosperity. The Tertiary Education Commission Bill will establish the Tertiary Education Commission to develop and recommend policies on the basis of Commonwealth financial support for institutions in the whole post-school sector of education throughout Australia. The Commission will be concerned with balanced and co-ordinated development and encouragement of diversified opportunities in post-school education. The new Commission will play a significant role in shaping and influencing the future character of postschool education in Australia. In the Bill tertiary education encompasses a wide range of courses in the technical and further education area. The new Commission is designed to overcome problems of co-ordination between the existing commissions. 
Several reasons make this Bill a major advance on earlier proposals. One is that it includes -. the important area of technical and further education. This shows an appreciation by the 
Government of the inevitable working interface between colleges of advanced education and institutions of technical and further education and the continuous need to rationalise functions between the 2 areas. It demonstrates the Government's awareness of the need to upgrade technical and further education in the post-school sector. The Government is committed to devoting special attention to technical and further education. For too long it has been the area receiving least consideration from governments in postschool education, particularly as far as the allocation of resources is concerned. The new Commission has an important role in the development of these resources and of co-operative arrangements with the States for the support of technical and further education. 
I should like to return for a few moments to addressing some remarks to the importance of the secondary sphere as far as employment is concerned. I particularly wish to emphasise the importance of the secondary sphere in preparing people for employment. Of course education is important in playing its role of preparing people for life and of providing the opportunity to learn about self-fulfilment, about a satisfying life style and about how to make an overall contribution to the community. However, the best contribution that can be made by any individual to the community is to be gainfully employed in a productive capacity. Unless the education system ensures that school leavers are competent in the basic skills they need for employment so that they can obtain a job, they will not be able to contribute in this way. Also of course, without a job, their opportunity to enjoy a satisfying life style is considerably diminished, although the deliberate dole bludgers in our community may dispute this assertion. 
The basic skills required for employment and on which others may be built are the old 3 Rsreading, writing and arithmetic- which may be summarised as literacy and numeracy. Evidence recently collected on levels of literacy and numeracy among Australians demonstrates that there is great cause for concern. Lack of competence in those areas is particularly evident among young people. Illiteracy is now most common among the 1 8-year-old to 23-year-old age group. A number of reports published in 1976 drew attention to the problems of literacy and numeracy in Australian society in general and within the education system in particular. 
It has been estimated that more than 225 000 Australians do not have the level of literacy demanded of most 10-year-old children. A New South Wales Department of Education survey has provided that information. A White Paper now being prepared in South Australia shows that 1 7 000 English-speaking residents of Adelaide are illiterate. In schools the illiteracy problem has become acute. Education authorities in Victoria have estimated that 40 per cent of secondary school children have extreme difficulties in reading, while 20 per cent cannot read at all. Many such people are very skilful at covering up their illiteracy, making it more difficult to detect the real extent of the problem in this area. At least 20 per cent of first year apprentices have a reading ability below that required to follow trade manuals and text books. 
When the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Association of New South Wales advertised for apprentices earlier this year- for the first time in its history, I might add- the senior industrial officer of the Association,  Mr Peter  Allen, said that employers were worried by the shortage of adequately educated young people. He went on to say: 
Our members had 40 apprenticeship vacancies this month but out of the 80 or so who applied none met the educational requirements. 
About half the students in the arts faculty of the University of Adelaide have minor difficulties with spelling and pronunciation and an occasional lack of clarity in written expression, according to a recent survey. I can see that that is of as much concern to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  as it is to me. The most disturbing comment of all, however, was that in one department the worst English was written by school teachers doing part time courses. 
The honourable member for Wakefield is a very modest member of Parliament, as we all know. The Australian Council for Educational Research took a survey of 10- year-old and 14-year-old students and found that many had learning difficulties that were related to poor literacy and numeracy. The Council's findings were published in a report to Schools that highlighted the problems. It must be pointed out that it made no attempt in that report to identify the problem areas. Indeed, there was little information in the report to identify the problem areas in the school system. Most of the blame seemed to be attached to the student himselffor example he travelled so much that he missed school, he had a prolonged illness or some such reason. However, regardless of the various qualifications and explanations that might be advanced to mitigate this picture, there is no escape from the fact that over the past 10 years or so, despite the tremendous increases in the amount of the taxpayers' money spent on education, standards in this country have dropped. That is a major reason for the startling rise in illiteracy. 
Furthermore, many people who are involved in education are in agreement about the major reason for the decline: It has been caused by the increasing incursion into our schools of what is called the progressive system of education. The bright child with ambition will impose selfdiscipline on himself, even in a very free atmosphere of learning. The children who suffer most from the new, less formal methods of education are those of average ability and limited selfdiscipline. In a class in which there is free or almost free expression the child will tend to reject what does not come naturally. There must be, and fairly shortly, a major re-think of our present system of teaching the 3Rs to overcome the faults inherent in the progressive system. 
Apart from its inadequacy at the secondary level, the progressive system of education has also has a detrimental effect at the tertiary level, specifically in the training of teachers. An increasing stress on academic, sociological and theoretical aspects of education has been to the detriment of the more specific training in practical techniques. The Schools Commission chief,  Dr Ken  McKinnon, recently put the situation bluntly when he said: 
The stress on academic performance in the training of teachers has devalued practical skills so that insufficient time is given to practical techniques of teaching reading and teachers are accordingly less well prepared. 
The problem has been highlighted by a recent report by the House of Representatives Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, which was a very good report. It reported that teacher training programs contain an inadequate amount of compulsory course work in such subjects as the teaching of reading, basic numeracy and coping with learning difficulties. Such statements will not surprise those who believe that some teacher training institutions have concentrated more on empire building processes than education. The House of Representatives Select Committee was critical of the fact that the number of hours devoted to the teaching of reading in teacher training colleges is nowhere near the minimum recommended by the British Bullock report or the International Reading Association. However, it was unable to determine whether Australia's education standards were improving or deteriorating. Apart from the Australian Council for Educational Research's study of 10-year-old and 14-year-old students there is limited reliable national data on the overall incidence of learning difficulties or of particular difficulties. The Committee said that the survey confirmed, however, that there is a considerable problem in Australian schools and a significant number of children are failing to reach adequate levels of literacy and numeracy. 
Apart from inadequate teacher preparation, evidence suggests that the age structure of teachers is a contributing factor to our educational problems. The bulk of teachers are now in the twenties age group. There are relatively few in the senior age brackets. No matter how good they are as far as ability is concerned, their lack of experience in terms of years spent as a practical teacher will restrict the capacity of these young teachers to identify and correct learning difficulties in school children. Children can be stretched in their capacity to absorb and learn effectively. One headmaster of my acquaintance believes that young teachers lack the experience to assess and use this capacity that is inherent in school children. These problems are very real and urgently need to be reviewed. 
There is an urgent need for specific programs to overcome problems of literacy and numeracy. In Adelaide the Department of Further Education is conducting literacy courses for 130 students. Eleven hundred people are enrolled in a course run by the New South Wales Education Department. This course began in 1971. But much more needs to be done to overcome the problems of the 225 000 Australians who cannot read or write. One of the real problems in this area is that many people avoid remedial courses of this nature because of the embarrassment that may be caused to them personally. A campaign was launched in this regard yesterday by way of an advertisement in the  Australian  that I see the honourable member for Wakefield is giving very close attention. 
-I hope that the honourable member for Wakefield does not need to take a remedial reading course. I see that he is giving it very close attention. I hope that he is learning something from it. This advertisement launched a campaign to raise the level of debate as far as remedial training is concerned in the very important areas of literacy and numeracy. I believe that it is a very important step in the right direction to overcome the reticence of those needing help. Some of the people in the community who see this advertisement may be aware of people with difficulties in this area. I hope that they will direct them to the appropriate people from whom they may obtain assistance. However, I believe that more needs to be done in the first place by giving close attention to the problems I have highlighted in our education system to ensure that the problems of literacy and numeracy do not arise. Unless the literacy and numeracy problems are overcome employment opportunities will remain limited. Young people also will be prevented from taking advantage of the expanded opportunities in technical and further education which are provided for by the Tertiary Education Commission Bill and to which I would now like briefly to refer. 
In October 1975 the Liberal-National Country Party policy statement on technical and further education stated that the Technical and Further Education Commission's work has drawn attention to a neglected area of education activity and that its recommendations will receive the coalition's close and detailed consideration. It went on to state that the Liberal and National Country Parties would consult with the States to determine methods by which they could promote and attract appropriately qualified persons into technical education. In August 1976 the first Technical and Further Education Commission report for the 1977 to 1979 triennium was presented. The amount of money available to the Commission for 1977 was $73m, an increase in real terms of 5 per cent. Instructions were given by the Government to the Commission that this was to grow by at least 5 per cent per annum in real terms for 1978 and 1979. 1 again stress strongly that despite the fact that the Government has had to cut back on expenditure in so many areas to overcome the problems it inherited from the spending sprees of the previous Labor Government, in this very important area it has made a significant increase in spending in real terms. This demonstrates the Government's very definite commitment to this area of education.  Senator Carrick  in his ministerial statement of November 1976 stated: 
It should be emphasised that the Government continues to give technical and further education a high priority . . . 
In January 1977, in announcing the arrangements for the new post-secondary education commission,  Senator Carrick  said that it was the Government's firm intention to pay special attention to technical and further education, particularly in the allocation of resources. I think that gives the lie to the statements made earlier by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. In March 1977, in Wagga  Senator Carrick  made a significant statement on the whole tertiary education system. It should be noted that once again the thrust of the statement was directed to technical and further education.  Senator Carrick  said that Cabinet had authorised him to announce that it was the Government's firm intention to pay special heed to technical and further education, once again with particular reference to the allocation of resources. From these statements we see that the Government is giving a high priority to this important area of education. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, it is a very significant area. 
At the moment Australia is not obtaining sufficient skilled craftsmen to continue with its development projects and to carry on in other important areas of industrial activity where skilled craftsmen are necessary. Unless we have an increased enrolment in technical and further education, an increased opportunity in that area and an increased output from these institutions, Australia 's industrial productivity and' ultimately its future prosperity will lag behind that of competitors overseas. Therefore this area should continue to receive the high priority which the Government has demonstrated both in the legislation being debated in the House this evening and in the allocation it provided for this area of education in the last Budget. I commend this legislation to the House. I urge its speedy passage, and I certainly oppose most strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. 
Is the Treasurer aware of calls for a reduction in sales tax on new motor vehicles to encourage sales in that area? Has the Government given consideration to these suggestions for sales tax cuts in the automotive industry? 
-The 4 Bills presently before the House- the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill 1977, the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1977, the States Grants (Advanced Education Assistance) Amendment Bill 1977 and the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Amendment Bill 1977- all provide extra Commonwealth Government funds to the States for expenditure on all spheres of primary, secondary and tertiary education. This extra money covers cost increases that have occurred in the programs for 1976 and 1977 since those programs were adopted. Hence the Bills will maintain the real value of the grants approved by the Commonwealth Government. They will ensure that the grants will achieve the specific goals intendedthat is, the completion of specific programs to benefit students rather than just to fulfil a money commitment. 
This legislation is a practical demonstration of the high priority that the Fraser Government and the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  give to education. It ensures that the real increases in education spending that were promised in the 1976-77 Budget will be achieved. It is a major achievement of the Fraser Government that in a time of restraint in government spending, which has been necessary to solve the economic problems that it inherited the Fraser Government has still ensured real increases in spending on education. 
However, despite the Government's very commendable approach to education, there are still certain problem areas. I hasten to add that these problem areas were not created by this Government. It is to those problem areas- to two of them in particular- that I wish to address some remarks this afternoon. 
The first area of concern is the problems that currently are being faced by independent schools. Independent schools are an essential part of our education system. They give parents the right to choose, for whatever reasonwhether it be religious, the pursuit of academic excellence, rural isolation or some other reasonan alternative school to those provided in the government system. 
The previous Labor Government in its thrust towards socialist equality sought to destroy the independent schools. It failed to recognise that those schools are not the repository of the ultraprivileged and it ignored the fact that many people of moderate means work hard and long hours- perhaps at second jobs- to exercise their right to choose to send their children to independent schools for one of the reasons I mentioned a moment ago. The attack of the Labor Government on independent schools, directly through for example its arbitrary category system and indirectly through its overall economic mismanagement, created a situation which the Australian Labor Party supposedly resents. The Labor Party's policies meant in fact that only the relatively wealthy and privileged could afford to send their children to independent schools. Perhaps that was a cunning way of destroying them- not because they are the preserve of the privileged but because the opportunity for choice and difference that they provide is anathema to socialists. 
As a result of that, the independent schools face a crisis situation. Many independent schools are falling further behind government schools as regards the resources available. The 1977-79 triennium report of the Schools Commission particularly emphasises this aspect. This is particularly evident in low resource independent schools. 
The Commonwealth Government has introduced several new initiatives in relation to independent schools, for which it should be commended, following this report of the Schools Commission. It has increased the per capita recurrent grants to $137 for Level 1 schools, whereas previously they were $113. These increased amounts graduate through the various levels to a maximum of $385 at Level 6, compared with the sum of $355 previously. The Government also has initiated a new scheme to help disadvantaged country children. Further assistance for independent schools has been initiated through the introduction of a loans guarantee scheme and advance approvals for school building projects so that those schools can go ahead with bridging finance. These provisions have been introduced in accordance with the Government's policy of encouraging the right of parents to choose between alternatives in schooling for their children and with the concept of a basic grant for all pupils, whether they attend government or non-government schools. But, despite this extra assistance, the indication is that there will not be an overall maintenance of the average resource level, and a continuing reduction in resources caused by the loss of contributory services. 
Some schools have difficulty, in an inflationary situation, in taking effective action to increase fees to compensate them for the cost increases resulting from inflation. Those schools which are able to increase fees become progressively less available to members of the community as an option for the education of their children. 
In addition to those problems, boarding schools are particularly affected by the rural slump and the resultant decline in average farm incomes. Many more farmers can no longer afford to send their children to boarding schools. Often those schools are the only source of adequate education for country children. So they are a particularly disadvantaged group at the moment. 
It is perhaps worth noting that in 1973 the average father of an independent school child had a gross income of $12,000 a year. Such families averaged 2.3 school age children. After tax rebates, parents spent $913 a year to educate each child. By 1975 the average income of such fathers had risen to $16,000 a year. They still maintained an average of 2.3 school age children. But after tax they were required to spend $2,087 a year to educate each child at an independent school. So, whilst their income had gone up by approximately one-third-of course, allowing for taxation, the real increase would have been less than that- the cost of educating their children had more than doubled. 
The solutions to these problems of independent schools are, of course, quite complex. The overall problem is an economic one. It is therefore essential that the Government continue to give first priority to overcoming inflation. That, in turn, will have the effect of stabilising the cost of operating independent schools and, hopefully, thereby will enable the stabilising of fees and the cost of the other forms of assistance that are necessary. This should enable parents to continue to support these schools by sending their children to them. 
However, following economic recovery, the proposed tax reforms of this Government must include relief for those who are paying to send their children to independent schools. The Government also must continue to provide direct assistance without impinging upon the independence of such schools. A possible initiative to which I believe the Government should give very close consideration in this area is the introduction of a voucher system for the funding of education. Of course, vouchers can be applied to both the government education system and the independent schools system as a means of providing finance. 
I repeat that independent schools play a very important part in their role of educating our children. I believe that the government must continue to give very close attention to their problems. 
The second area of concern to which I wish to direct my remarks this afternoon is the operation of the Australian Union of Students. This union purports to represent students at all tertiary institutions. Indeed, all students are forced to be members. Students automatically pay a compulsory levy of $2.50 to the Australian Union of Students. State government legislation enforces this compulsory unionism by preventing any students refusing to pay this levy from sitting for examinations or receiving degrees or diplomas. Despite this, evidence shows that AUS is not really representative of the great bulk of Australian tertiary students. Consequently, increasing concern is being generated among students and the general public. It is a very great tragedy that this is the case. 
A national student body could be of great value. AUS has the potential to be a constructive force in tertiary student affairs. It has already benefited many students through travel schemes and medical benefit arrangements. However, beyond that it has ignored its proper role of a student union which is to promote all aspects of students' well-being. For instance, last year it totally failed to represent students effectively in respect of their problems concerning the tertiary education assistance scheme. It failed to produce a worthwhile submission to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on this matter. I understand that the Education Officer of AUS refused to meet the Minister to discuss the problems of the tertiary education assistance scheme because she did not want to be involved in what she termed  'bourgeois  parliamentary politics '. 
Of course, therein lies the core of the problem. 
The capacity of AUS effectively to present student views to governments and educational authorities in Australia is undermined by its being controlled by extreme left-wing elements who are more concerned with pursuing their own political goal of socialist revolution for Australia than serving the real needs of students. The real problem is that the AUS executive is dominated by Trotskyists, Maoists and other extremists, all of whom can be accurately grouped under the label of ' communist '. 
-That is very true. Thus they threaten the way of life that the great bulk of Australians, including the great bulk of students, wish to enjoy. Accurate surveys show that nearly all students support either the Liberal or Labor Parties and that their political views aligned closely with one or the other of those Parties. Hence the AUS is not reflecting the views of student members in the extremist activities it pursues. 
Socialist extremists have been able to achieve this control of the executive for 2 reasons. First, the great bulk of students are committed to high academic achievement which will enable them to make long term contributions both to Australia's and their own welfare. Therefore, of course, they do not have the time to engage actively in student politics. 
Secondly, AUS office-holders are elected by delegates at the annual AUS conference in January each year. These delegates do not represent the broad spectrum of students. On many campuses they are not even directly chosen by students. Some delegates at the conference vote as a bloc and prevent expression of alternative moderate views, even if some moderates have been successful in achieving election as delegates. Clearly changes are necessary to ensure the AUS conference and its office-bearers more accurately reflect the views of the bulk of students. 
A group has recently been active directing its activities towards achieving this goal. Thus far it has been unsuccessful because the left wingers have been manipulating the system. A recent referendum to ensure that all office-holders were elected by a direct vote of all students resulted in IS 000 students voting in favour of this proposal and only 5000 against it. But because 20 campuses did not vote on the issue the proposal was lost because non-voting campuses were regarded under the rules which apply for referendums as favouring the continuation of the existing system. Those students who have been active in attempting to achieve reform deserve commendation and support from all of us who are aware of the important role that tertiary education institutions play in our community, in the future development of our community and in our democracy. 
People like Michael Danby, Tony Abbott, John Herzog and Gordon Laverick have demonstrated great courage in their fight against the extreme left-wing on behalf of the bulk of students. They have been subject to violent intimidation at AUS conferences. Recently Michael Danby spent several days in hospital following an attack on him by extremist activists in a Melbourne city street.  Mr Danby  could hardly be regarded as a right-winger. In fact he is an active member of the Australian Labor Party. Of course such an event reinforces claims about the extreme nature of those who are controlling AUS. 
Students, both Liberal and Labor, as well as other moderates see the very great need for reform. The use of violence shows that AUS cannot be just written off as being run by a group of children who are in the process of growing up. This argument is reinforced by the fact that as a result of the $2.50 fee which is levied on each student and paid to AUS, the AUS executive controls an annual budget approaching $700,000. 
The executive 's pre-occupation with itself, and the promotion of its extreme political views and its lack of concern for the welfare of average students is clearly demonstrated in a breakup of this budget. Over half of the budget is spent on salaries, travel expenses and so on of executive members. It seems that even student politicians indulge in empire building. An amount of $80,000 is spent for media purposes, including the production of the organisation's own newspaper which is nothing more than a communist propaganda sheet. In addition, $75,000 is spent on so-called social action. So the largesse goes on and on. Against this expenditure only $1,000 was applied to the solution of a problem such as the tertiary education assistance scheme, an issue, of course, which affected the welfare of most students. 
Clearly major changes are needed in the leadership of the Australian Union of Students to ensure that the compulsory levy which is extracted from students to finance its operations is spent in the interests of the great bulk of students and not in the interests of a small extremist leadership junta. 
This need is recognised by all people who hold moderate democratic views, both Labor and Liberal. 
I have already mentioned the role which Labor activist Michael Danby has played against the left wing. AUS has also been condemned by  Mr M.  O 'Brien, the  President  of the University of Adelaide Labor Club when he said that that 
AUS was no longer representative of students. Hence it is not just a Liberal or right-wing plot to discredit a left-wing organisation. 
In that context I was particularly horrified to see a report last Friday that Peter Duncan, the South Australian Attorney-General had said that the public concern being expressed about AUS was part of a conservative plot to destroy AUS because of the threat it posed to Australia's free enterprise system. He admitted no evidence to back up this view but he believed that the Central Intelligence Agency and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were also part of this plot. 
Peter Duncan has been the pride of the Dunstan Government in South Australia as Australia's youngest Attorney-General. He has even been tipped as Dunstan 's heir-apparent. Therefore his statement must be accepted as the view of the South Australian Government on AUS. It demonstrates the extent to which extremists have penetrated the South Australian government despite Premier Dunstan 's cosmetic public pose of moderation. Duncan supports these extremists in contrast to the views of his own party members such as Danby and O'Brien who have first-hand experience of extremist student political activity. 
So I guess there is very little hope that the South Australian Government will initiate any reforms in South Australia to ensure that AUS becomes more democratic and more representative of the great bulk of students. Therefore I believe it is even more imperative that normally apathetic students arouse themselves actively to support that small group which has already initiated moves for reform in this area. I hope that other State governments will pursue this end, even though the South Australian Government may not do so. I strongly urge the Commonwealth Government and the Minister for Education to use their influence to bring about necessary changes in the structure of the Australian Union of Students and in the way that university union fees and student fees operate to ensure that a more responsible and moderate leadership comes to power in the AUS. Then it can prove to be a really effective representative body of students. It can effectively represent students in the genuine needs which they have and not be purely an extremist political organisation concerned with promoting extremist political views in the community to the detriment of the overall community and, of course, to the detriment of students who depend on that body for their welfare. 
-If the matter raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  was a matter of public importance we have once again seen him launch a damp squib. To remind the House, the matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide was as follows: 
The complete failure of the Government to provide structural adjustment programs. 
He mentioned some areas in which structural adjustment problems are evident. In each of these areas the Government has been active in developing policies and programs to overcome the problems. The House should be reminded that these problems emanated from the period of the Whitlam regime. They were caused in the three years of Labor government from 1972 to 1975. The problems resulted directly from the policies of that particular Government. 
Once again, the honourable member for Port Adelaide is late on the scene. I do not know whether he devised his proposal to discuss this matter of public importance prior to last night, but he certainly was beaten to the punch by the announcement last night by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concerning the establishment of an inquiry to be headed by  Sir John  Crawford. This inquiry is being established specifically to look at the problems of structural adjustment. It is to be headed by  Sir John 
Crawford, that eminent gentleman who has particular expertise in this area. There will be other people on the inquiry with expertise. It should be noted that one of the people is  Mr Robert  Hawke, the  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and, no doubt, a would-be colleague of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. There is also the Managing Director of the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd,  Sir Brian  Inglis, and the head of the Department of Industry and Commerce,  Mr Neil  Currie. So we find that it was announced last night that an expert body is being set up by the Prime Minister to look into these specific problems which were raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
It is worth considering the terms of reference that have been given to this study group by the Prime Minister. Firstly, it is to undertake a study of the nature and extent of adjustment problems of Australian manufacturing industries, with particular reference to the most highly protected industries, arising from changes in the internal and external environment. Secondly, it is to advise on the essential elements of a long-term policy to deal with these problems, having regard to the implications of the likely patterns of industry's growth and employment prospects and the capacity of the economy to sustain changes in the industrial structure. 

 Sir John Crawford will begin this work late in October. It is expected that the group will submit its report by August 1978. The Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs are both to provide support and secretarial services for this study. The group will have access also to other departments and institutions to obtain information and views on the matters under study. So there the Government has taken a significant initiative to overcome the problems of structural adjustment- problems to which the honourable member for Port Adelaide was attempting to direct attention, although I believe he failed to do this in the way in which he brought this matter to the attention of the House. 
Quite apart from the study group which has been established, the Government has also taken initiatives in a number of other areas. But I think we should refer back to the basis of the problem that is being faced, that is to the policies that were administered by the Whitlam regime which was in government from 1972 to 1975. There is absolutely no doubt that the problems that are currently faced by manufacturing industry in particular and industry in Australia in general can be directly traced to the policies of that 
Government. I refer particularly to the policies of the Whitlam Government in relation to government spending, encouraging a wage explosion and various other matters, including the development of the tremendous deficit, which was heading towards $4,000m when the Labor Party went out of office. All these policies which were promoted and fostered by the Whitlam Government have directly contributed to the problems which manufacturing industry and industry in general are currently facing. 
Therefore, the policies of this Government have been directed first and foremost to overcoming those basic problems. The major policy of this Government, if we are to solve the particular problems which industry in general faces, is directed towards solving Australia's basic economic problems. 
We are all aware of the budgetary measures which this Government has taken, both in the 1976-77 Budget and in the current Budget introduced a fortnight ago, to overcome those problems. The Government as a result of its poll- 'cies has been successful in substantially reducing the rate of inflation. We have seen a turn-round in the economic sphere. We have seen industrial growth restored. The statistics show that quite clearly. We have seen a turn-round as a result of two Budgets, the general economic policy and the general approach by the present Government. Economic recovery is under way. That is the first and foremost advantage which must be restored to industry if the problems of structural adjustment are to be overcome. 
Quite apart from that, the Government has directed attention to specific policies in respect of specific areas. The honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned the unemployment situation. He ignored completely the positive approach which the Government has taken through its involvement in manpower programs. In the current 1977-78 Budget the Government has allocated $109m to manpower programs. This is an increase of some 33 per cent over the figure for the previous year. The strategy of the Government is to direct assistance to those people who are most in need in this particular area. Since taking office the Government has developed existing manpower programs and has introduced new ones. It has taken new initiatives in this problem area. The aim of those initiatives is to enable the work force to operate to the maximum extent possible and to assist in the overall economic recovery of Australia. 
There are a number of programs in this area which the Government has been administering and administering well. First and foremost is the National Employment and Training scheme. We are aware that this scheme was introduced by the Labor Government, but we found that when that Government was administering this scheme it was not helping those who needed it most; it was being used by upper middle class affluent people to take all sorts of study courses. There was total abuse in the application of the NEAT scheme at that time. When this Government came to office it ensured that the NEAT scheme was directed to those people in most need of assistance. It provided a funding system to meet the broad aims of assisting unemployed people to obtain stable employment and providing opportunities for upgrading the general skills of the work force. 
During 1976-77 training assistance was directed to those people who were unemployed or at risk of losing their employment. Assistance was not available immediately to those who had reasonable prospects of obtaining suitable employment without training. It should be noted that during the past 12 months the number of people being assisted in training on the job under the NEAT scheme has grown from 2,400 to some 16,000. The percentage of trainees being assisted, therefore has changed from 32 per cent to 76 per cent. That shows very clearly the benefits that have been derived from this Government's approach in administering the NEAT scheme. 
As a result of this shift in policy we have seen a most dramatic growth in the number of people receiving training assistance. It has risen from 7,300 trainees in July 1976 to 20,600 trainees at the end of July 1977, a growth of some 180 per cent. 
Over the past months the Government, because of its deep concern for the large number of young people who have not been able to establish themselves in the work force, has expanded the use of the NEAT scheme in other specific and significant ways. It has been directed particularly towards helping young people to find employment and a specific niche in the work force. 
We introduced the Special Youth Employment Training Program. It was introduced as an adjunct to the NEAT scheme in October 1976 to provide assistance to school leavers aged between 15 and 19 years who had been unable to obtain stable employment. As honourable members would be aware, it was announced in the Budget that this has now been widened to include in the program young people aged between 20 and 24 years. In the first nine months of the operation of this program some 15,000 young people have been placed in employment. At the end of July the total number of young people in training was 8,518. It is important to note that some 68 per cent of those young people sampled were found to be in employment several weeks after completing their training under this scheme. That once again shows the effectiveness of the Government's programs in this area. 
I also mention the education program for unemployed youth. Here the aim is to improve the skills and motivation of young unemployed people, particularly those with low or inadequate educational attainment which may be a barrier to their obtaining employment. That program also has proved to be effective. So the Government has introduced and is administering a number of specific measures in the manpower planning and training area which are directed particularly towards young unemployed people. Of course, this has particular relevance to structural assistance for the unemployed. It is an area in which the Government is taking the initiative and in which it is proving effective in its administration and policy. 
It was interesting to see that the honourable member for Port Adelaide in his remarks this afternoon completely ignored the plight of people in rural areas. This shows very clearly once again, as we are all aware, that as far as the Labor Party is concerned Australia ends at the boundaries of the metropolitan areas; it has absolutely no care and no concern for people in rural areas and people involved in primary industry. 
However we find that the Government has introduced and is administering structural adjustment programs which have relevance to primary industry. It has also introduced programs which are effective in the secondary industry area and which are of relevance to metropolitan areas. 
The new rural adjustment scheme which the Commonwealth Government introduced at the beginning of this year embraces not only assistance to help people leave their land, if that is what they want, and assistance to build up holdings so that they can be more efficient and effective in their operation but also, very significantly, it provides household support. This scheme was introduced by the present Government for the first time at the beginning of the year. It was introduced to help farmers, whether they be beef producers, fat lamb producers, dairy farmers or fruit growers. In whatever particular rural industry farmers find themselves with structural problems, this scheme will assist them. Of course, the household support which is provided under this scheme is aimed at enabling farmers to stay on their properties and to continue in the farming business. 
The scheme commenced on 1 January 1977 and it replaced the scheme which had been in operation at the end of 1976. The new scheme combines into one comprehensive scheme various forms of rural assistance previously provided under separate legislation. For rehabilitation, it increases the loan limit from $3,000 to $5,000. So we can see that, whether you are looking at the metropolitan area or at the rural areas, whether you are looking at the problems of manufacturing industry or those of rural industry, the Government has taken initiatives; it has introduced policies and is administering those policies effectively in overcoming the very real problems of structural adjustment. 
I emphasise once again that the Prime Minister has taken us a step further by last night announcing the setting up of a special study group to investigate further the problems of structural adjustment. So the Government is already administering policies in this area. It has set up a study group to look at the problems, to look at the way in which the situation will develop in the future, and to come up with recommendations on how to solve further problems which will occur in the future. The Government is administering specific programs and is looking to the future. 
However, we must come back to the point that the only ultimate solution to this problem, the only way in which ultimately we are going to stabilise the industrial situation is through economic recovery. That is an area in which the Government has taken steps which far outweigh the performance of the previous Labor Government, and it is an area in which the Government's policies and administration far outweigh the proposals which we have heard in recent weeks from the Labor Party in Opposition. The Government's policies are achieving success in that area. They have achieved success in reducing the rate of inflation. They have achieved success in restoring real economic growth and investment activity, 
Even though we find that unemployment remains a problem, we find that the actual number of jobs available has increased. Industry, even in the current situation, is expanding. So the Government by no means stands condemned for its approach in this area. The matter of public importance brought on by the honourable member for Port Adelaide must fail. The Government's approach is rational. The Government's approach is one of care and concern about structural adjustment. I believe that the Government will overcome the problems. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of continuing concern in the community, particularly among tertiary students, at the collapse of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd? Can the Minister inform the House about any further developments with respect to that collapse? Can the Government ensure that all students who had purchased tickets through AUS Travel will be able to recover their losses? Will students be able to use the facilities of the Australian Union of Students to undertake travel they had already arranged through the company? Will the Government conduct an inquiry into the affairs of AUS Travel? 
-I rise to support this the second Budget of the Fraser Government. It is the only road to sustainable long term recovery from our economic problems. The Budget continues in a consistent way the economic strategy which the Fraser Government has been pursuing since it came into office at the end of 1975. It is an economic strategy which is now showing success. We should all be reminded of the problems which the Government's policy is overcoming. Those problems stem from the incompetence demonstrated in the field of economic management by the Whitlam Labor Government from 1972 to 1975. We on this side of the House all know that to be the case and, of course, everyone in the community knows it. Even some honourable members opposite are aware of the folly of Labor's spending policies during those years. 
The magnitude of Labor's folly was brought home to me again when I recently studied the Budget Papers. Spiralling inflation which caused unemployment is, of course, the major factor in our economic problems. Rapid increases in government spending to ridiculously excessive levels are the root cause of this inflationary problem. For many years prior to the advent of the 
Labor Government in 1972 annual increases in government spending averaged about 10 per cent. In marked contrast, when Labor came to power we saw an increase in its first Budget in 1973-74 of 20 percent. 
-Twenty per cent. More disastrously, in 1974-75 expenditure was increased by 45.9 per cent, that is, from $12,229m in 1973-74 to $17,839m in 1974-75. No economy, even one as strong as the Australian economy was as a result of 23 years of sound LiberalCountry Party Government economic management, could withstand such an incompetent assault. Even the 1975-76 Hayden Budget, which thankfully for Australia was Labor's last, further increased government spending by 22.5 per cent, although statements of utter duplicity termed that Budget a budget of restraint. So in three disastrous years of Labor administration government spending more than doubled from $ 1 0, 1 90m in the last year of Liberal government in 1972 to $2 1,860m. That increase bore no relationship to the nation's productivity or to its total wealth. Over three years government spending, as a proportion of gross domestic product, rose from less than 25 per cent to nearly 3 1 per cent. The result of that was that the private sector was starved of resources and recession set in. Meanwhile Labor dipped further and further into the people 's pockets through taxation. 
During the six years prior to the Labor Government gaining power the annual increase in taxation receipts ranged from 6.4 per cent to 14.9 per cent, averaging about 10 per cent. Successive annual increases in taxation receipts under Labor amounted to 26 per cent, 28 per cent and 20 per cent. Of course, the great bulk of those receipts were gained through the avenue of personal income tax derived from the average income earner. But even that massive increase in tax receipts was not enough to finance Labor's profligacy. 
In the last five years of the previous Liberal Government the annual deficit- that is, the excess of government spending over its income from taxation- averaged $280m. Under Labor this boomed to put us in debt to the tune of $2,500m by 1974-75. In 1975-76 the deficit would have been $5,000m but for the advent half way through that financial year of the Fraser Government which restored some sanity to government spending. It held the deficit to $3,500m. That profligate spending and taxation rip-off, combined with the massive deficit, was disastrous for Australia. It showed a complete absence of priorities on the part of Labor and complete managerial incompetence. Inflation boomed to 19.4 per cent in the second half of 1974. Recession and unemployment were inevitable as a consequence as private enterprise was squeezed beyond its limits. Of course, the political consequence for Labor was its thrashing in the 1975 election. 
People should remember those three disastrous years because Labor certainly did not learn one thing from them. The Whitlam-Hayford- or is it the Whitlam-Hurden- policy pronouncements - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member for Kingston will refer to the Leader of the Opposition by his correct title. 
The policy pronouncements of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the shadow Treasurer  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  showed that they would do it all again. They have even admitted that themselves. Labor remains a party of high taxes and high government spending, to the detriment of productivity and economic growth. Of course, that is inevitable for a party which is committed to socialism. The Australian people learned the hard way during those three years, and they could not survive another dose of Labor. 
So, remembering and considering the situation inherited by the Fraser Government, the present Government has made remarkable progress in restoring economic stability. Restraint in government spending and efficiency in utilisation of government resources reduced the deficit, projected to be $5,000m, to $3,500m by June 1976 and then to $2,700m by June of this year. This Budget will see further success in reducing the deficit which is predicted to be down to $2 , 200m by June 1978. One reason for this is that the Government has restored annual expenditure increases to something around the long run norm of 10 per cent. A reduction in the deficit is essential not only in overcoming inflation but also in enabling a reduction in interest rates. That is also so very important to economic recovery. 
Inflation is the major problem to be overcome, and the Government's policies are proving to be successful in that area. Excluding hospital and medical services, inflation has now been reduced to an annual rate of about 10 per cent. That represents a significant improvement over the situation during the Labor era. Further success must be achieved on that front if the unemployment problem is to be overcome. Continual wage increases, which cause increased costs of production for industry, are preventing a great expansion of job opportunities. However, despite that, there has also been some improvement on that front. More people are now in employment than was the case towards the end of the Labor regime. Inflation prevents expansion of job opportunities and is socially damaging. Hence the Government must not use inflationary stimuli to create employment. 
A range of economic statistics show that the Government is slowly but surely pulling us out of the mess created by Labor. The evidence shows that that improvement will continue. Last week in Adelaide  Mr J.  B. Donovan, who is chief economist for the management consultant firm W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd predicted that inflation would be down to 6.5 per cent by the end of 1978 as a result of the Government's economic policies. 
-He is an expert. According to  Mr Donovan,  the increase in the consumer price index in September will be the final hiccup. A lower rate of inflation will be decisive in setting spending patterns. Rising inflation has restricted consumer spending on goods and services other than food, clothing and shelter. The reverse is expected to apply when inflation is falling. Business will spend more on new buildings, plant and vehicles over the next six quarters, specifically because of falling inflation and interest rates, easier credit, increasing consumer demand for local goods, a fall in excess capacity in industry, a revival of overseas investment and a number of expansion projects. Real non-farm gross domestic product is predicted by  Mr Donovan  to be growing at 6.4 per cent a year by the end of 1978. Australia's balance of payments will improve next year. Unemployment also will improve markedly by the end of 1 978. 
Apart from the overall contribution to economic recovery through its reduction of the deficit, the Budget provides specific significant steps forward in economic reform which will benefit the residents of the Kingston electorate as well as all other Australians. In benefiting individuals this Budget also will aid economic recovery in the aggregate. The tax restructuring announced in the Budget is a major advance. The need for tax reform was a major issue in the community right across the range of incomes and income earners, whether businessmen, employees, pensioners or superannuants. They all saw the need for reductions in taxation. This issue was brought to the attention of the Government by me both in representations and in public statements, particularly the effect that the high rate of tax was having on overtime and single income families. 
The reform the Government introduced of a flat tax rate of 32 per cent on incomes between $3,750 and $16,000 was better than I had thought possible, given the current budgetary situation. This follows the introduction of tax indexation last year. Those earning incomes less than $3,750 and, in fact, everyone's first $3,750 of income will be totally exempt from tax. Hence 90 per cent of Australian taxpayers will pay a maximum tax rate of 24 per cent. The bulk of them, in fact, will pay a lesser rate as a result of the flat rate of tax of 32 per cent up to $16,000 and the exemption of the first $3,750. The incentive to work harder has been restored. Incentive to earn extra income has been restored because the increasing marginal tax rate now has been abolished on incomes up to $16,000. This is the income group most in need of the extra dollar of income. Social equity has been retained in the reformed tax structure by the exemption that applies to incomes up to $3,750 and the 14 per cent surcharge on incomes between $16,000 and $32,000 and the 28 per cent surcharge on incomes over $32,000. Through this major tax reform, under which everyone will be better off, the Fraser Government has demonstrated its commitment to getting government out of people 's pockets and restoring incentive. 
In the Budget the Government also has demonstrated its concern for the unemployed, particularly unemployed youth. The expansion of the Special Youth Employment Training Program along with the National Employment and Training scheme, apprenticeship training subsidies and the Community Youth Support scheme particularly show this. An important aspect of these programs is that they are directed towards establishing young people m permanent jobs and careers. This is in marked contrast to the job relief schemes of the South Australian Dunstan Labor Government which I heard the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mention in an earlier debate. These are temporary palliatives which do not provide long term job prospects. For long term job stability, government programs must be directed towards establishing jobs in the private sector which provides 75 per cent of jobs. 
I mentioned them a moment ago. Government relief schemes a la 
Dunstan do not achieve this. The Fraser Government 's far-sighted approach contrasts with the short term expediency of the Dunstan State Government. 
The far-sighted approach of the Budget is also evident in its approach to crude oil prices. The rise in the price of crude oil towards world parity directs attention to the long term energy situation. The relatively cheap price of Australian crude oil by world standards has resulted in distortions in the use of this scarce and valuable resource. Australia's oil reserves will be depleted by the early 1 980s. The Government and the Opposition have agreed that world parity prices should apply to oil from fields discovered after September 1975. Now all our oil prices will be closer to world parity. Both individual and corporate users will have to put a truer value on the oil products they use. Our reserves of oil have been extended through this policy because more fields have been made economic through the price increase. It is essential for people to adjust their lifestyle to the economic realities of a change in the cost of oil. It is wrong for consumers to be shielded from these economic realities. We all must re-evaluate our activities to ensure a more realistic use of scarce energy resources. No doubt other equally painful decisions will confront us in the future. 
The Budget therefore provides the basis for further progress on the economic recovery front, as well as major reforms. The Government is to be commended for this. Nevertheless, there is always more which can be done. With further success on the economic front as a result of this Budget, I urge the Government to direct attention to three specific areas as soon as possible. The first of these is the indexation of family allowances. Some other social welfare benefits are indexed. As family allowances replace the previous tax deductions for children, in the interests of equity they should be indexed against inflation as other tax rebate items have been. 
The second issue of high priority is the provision of an allowance for supporting fathers. I thank honourable members who are indicating their support on that issue. The family is crucial for nurturing children and providing a stable psychological environment for their development. This is even more important if by reason of death or marital breakdown there is only one parent to care for children, whether it be the father or the mother. They should be able to devote full attention to that task. The need for a supporting father's benefit on this basis has been evident for some time and has been voiced by a number of my colleages in the Liberal Party. I look forward to the Government fulfilling this need at the earliest opportunity. 
A third issue of importance is the need to press on with additional minor tax reforms now that the major reform has been initiated. In particular, I refer to the restoration of the old tax deductions system whereby items of eligible expenditure such as education, life insurance and health were deducted from taxable income for the purpose of assessing tax. This year's tax reform has made the Hayden rebate system- a disguised tax rip-off- irrelevant. The next step must be the restoration of allowable deductions and significant increases in the maximum allowable deductions in respect of eligible items. 
There are other long term areas to which the Budget also gives consideration. Overall, I believe that the Budget makes a further major contribution to overcoming the economic mess which was created by the Labor Government, which I mentioned in the early part of my remarks. By maintaining restraint on government expenditure it continues the attack on inflation which is absolutely essential to economic recovery. The total overhaul of the tax structure provides equity and incentive by ensuring that everyone pays less tax. The Budget keeps Australia on the right track and will provide subsequent opportunity for the Government to deal with the remaining issues which I mentioned a moment ago. I support the Budget as a document of sound economic management and I urge its speedy passage. 
According to an article in this morning's Adelaide  Advertiser,  the South Australian State Labor Government's Minister for Education,  Dr Hopgood,  has claimed that the Federal Government is failing by almost $ 1 m to meet its commitment to Aboriginal education in South Australia for 1977-78. According to  Dr Hopgood,  South Australia sought $2,481,500 and the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  approved $1,500,000 for that purpose.  Dr Hopgood  further claimed that that was $95,000 short of the State Government's present program for Aboriginal education and therefore was preventing the implementation of his further proposals.  Dr Hopgood  also claimed that the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in August said that the Federal Government would financially support the outstation movement.  Dr Hopgood  claimed that this was a reversal of policy by the Commonwealth 
Government and that further than that, because no funds were now being provided for outstation facilities, that policy was not being adopted. These statements by  Dr Hopgood  are yet another example of how South Australian State Ministers dishonestly misrepresent the facts with regard to the Federal Government. This is becoming quite a habit among some South Australian Ministers but I am certainly disappointed to see that  Dr Hopgood  has joined the clan. 
The facts regarding Commonwealth Government funding for Aboriginal education should be pointed out. In 1976-77, $1,383,937 was provided by the Commonwealth Government. As stated by  Dr Hopgood,  $1,500,000 has been provided for 1977-78. This is in fact an increase of $1 16,063. This is not an increase in real terms, in accordance with Federal Government policy that there would be no increase in real terms in this sphere for this financial year. But after allowing for inflation the level of spending in real terms has been maintained at the current rate. Therefore, Aboriginal education programs in South Australia can be maintained with the funds that are being provided in this financial year. 
I am talking about Aboriginal education. The bid by the South Australian Government for $2,481,500 was not backed by sufficient evidence as to the way these funds would be used in this financial year. The information which was provided by the South Australian Government in support of its bid was extremely sketchy and insufficient to justify any increase in real terms, expecially in times of competing priorities for the available funds. If  Dr Hopgood  spent less time political point scoring and devoted more time to effective administration and developing detailed programs he might have had more success in obtaining Federal Government funds. Contrary to  Dr Hopgood  's statement, the Federal Government's commitment to the outstation movement is not a reversal of policy. I quote from the Liberal and National Country Parties Aboriginal Affairs Policy of November 1975:  the life style of Aborigines will, of necessity, vary between those living in a more tribalised state on or near their traditional lands and those living in or near towns and cities. Policies must therefore reflect this fact . . . 
We recognise the fundamental right of Aborigines to retain their racial identify and traditional life style . . . where desired. 
The support by the Federal Government of the outstauon movement is a fulfilment of that policy. Furthermore, the policy has not been abandoned. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be meeting with various State Ministers including  Mr Ron  Payne, the South Australian Minister for Community Welfare, in Sydney this Friday to discuss matters pertaining to the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council. The support for the outstation movement and the problems of the Pitjantjatjaras will be on the agenda to be discussed at this meeting. Therefore,  Dr Hopgood  's claims that these needs and problems have been abandoned is quite untrue and a distortion of the facts with regard to Federal policy. A working party was established in February this year to report on these matters. When a conclusion is reached this will involve funding for education and other aspects of Aboriginal welfare related to the outstation movement. Therefore,  Dr Hopgood  not only has been dishonest in this matter but also does not know what one of the other Ministers in the South Australian Government has been involved in with the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  to overcome these problems. 
I support strongly, as a matter of public importance, the issues raised by my colleague the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  namely, the current wave of strikes and abuse of union power. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  in his response to my colleague, condemned the Fraser Government as being divisive and destructive of the Australian way of life. Nonsense. The major group that is destroying the Australian way of life is the extremist unions which my colleague the honourable member for Higgins mentioned in his address this afternoon. The honourable member for Gellibrand also talked about the Government's policy on wage indexation and suggested that in that area our policy was outside the guidelines. To the contrary, the Government is within the guidelines in the principles which it espouses on this matter. I refer the honourable member to the fourth principle of those indexation guidelines for his own edification. He also claimed that wage restraint was detrimental to the standard of living of workers. Without wage restraint unemployment would be even worse than it is at the moment and, therefore, far more destructive of the standards of workers. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also claimed that the share of profits was now adequate to encourage investment. Once again he is completely wrong. The share of profits is still below the long run norm required to encourage investment and expansion of economic activity by industry. He also talked about this Government's poor economic management. Once again he is wrong. This Government's approach to economic management compares more than favourably with that of the Whitlam era. The abysmal low of the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand was his support of the Victorian power strike. This is a strike which has been condemned by all throughout Australia. I am sure that the constituents of the State electorate of Greensborough in Victoria would be interested to hear the honourable member's remarks this afternoon. I believe that as a result of those remarks the honourable member for Gellibrand should resign from this Parliament. As at 3 o'clock this afternoon, some 350 people were registered for unemployment benefit as a result of the power dispute. They are coming in at the rate of 80 people per day. At Preston in Victoria some 1,000 people per day are registering for unemployment benefit as a result of the power strike. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also said that there has been a decline in industrial disputation. Certainly there has been a general improvement in industrial relations. This is revealed by the available statistics. This improvement is a result of the Fraser Government's sound economic management and its willingness to consult with the trade union movement. However, this overall improvement hides a real and continuing problem, that is, unjustified strikes initiated by left wing union leaders and, as we have seen this afternoon condoned by the Labor Party, involving key workers in key industries. These strikes detrimentally affect not only the immediate industry involved but also many other industries dependent on the key industry concerned in the particular dispute. The deliberate aim of these strikes is to sabotage economic recovery in Australia, destroy wage indexation and thereby further the political aims of both the left wing extremists and the Labor Party which they influence. 
The current power strike in Victoria is a prime example of this kind of industrial disruption. It is monstrous that half a million fellow wage earners, not to mention the providers of employment and the rest of the community, should suffer grievously to satisfy the selfish demands and bloody-minded stubbornness of a comparatively well paid group of key workers in an essential industry. It is absurd that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Victorian Trades Hall Council should have allowed a committee of militant shop stewards to incite direct action in support of a log of claims contrary to the trade union movement's own rules and best interests. The militant shop stewards whose belligerence and intransigence have prolonged this strike and worsened its impact beyond tolerable bounds deserve the angry condemnation of this House and of the people of Australia. Equally to be condemned is the attitude of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  as expressed in his article in this morning's  Australian.  Both the Hamer Government in victoria and the Fraser Federal Government have done all possible to avoid confrontation on this issue. They should be congratulated. But the militants will have none of it. Through his comments the honourable member for Port Adelaide stands aligned with them. I shall be interested to hear his comments in a moment 
I am especially concerned about the impact of this disrup tion on the regional economy of South Australia. South Australia is very dependent on manufacturing industry which draws its raw materials from Victoria. By the end of this week 30,000 jobs in South Australia may be destroyed as a direct result of the Victorian power workers intransigence. I particularly draw the attention of honourable members to the disastrous effects the Victorian bullies are having on their fellow workers employed in motor vehicle manufacturing in South Australia, and more particularly those employed at Chrysler Australia Ltd at Tonsley Park and Lonsdale, many of whom live within my electorate of Kingston. 
I thank the honourable member for St George for that comment. Motor vehicle manufacturing in South Australia is fighting for survival. Hit by tremendous wage cost increases during the Whitlam Labor era and additional State Government charges and workers compensation costs caused by the Dunstan Government, this industry is no longer competitive with imported vehicles. 
-That also contributes to the problem. It is only the restraint on further cost increases resulting from the sound economic policies of the Fraser Government and that Government's generous protection provided for the industry in the form of high tariffs and quotas on imports that is keeping the industry viable. 
The current power strike in Victoria is highly detrimental to continued recovery in the motor vehicle industry. Victoria is the most important State for the manufacture of motor vehicle components used by Chrysler. As a direct result of the unjustified action by key workers in the Victoria power industry and for no other reason, Chrysler is currently unable to obtain supplies of 22 major components to build its motor cars. These are key components in manufacturing, not items which may be added later such as tail lights. These 22 components are required by Chrysler to maintain continued production of its vehicles. The severe disruption of the strike is bringing production to a halt. The jobs of 2,300 employees of Chrysler have already been destroyed despite the best endeavours of Chrysler to maintain employment. A further 1,000 employees at the General Motors-Holden's plant at Elizabeth have been affected. The jobs of a further 1,500 employees of Chrysler are now threatened as more components become unavailable. Many of Chrysler's employees are being deployed in maintenance work. This work is now reaching completion and there are no more tasks available on which Chrysler can use such employees. Some employees have been sent to training courses to maintain their employment, at great cost to Chrysler. Hence the company has gone further than anyone could imagine or think possible to keep as many employees as possible on the payroll for as long as possible. That company is to be commended for its meritorious action. 
The situation gets worse day by day as the abuse of union power in Victoria continues to deprive Chrysler of its components. As each day goes by and strikers refuse to return to their jobs, 1,500 more workers at Chrysler come closer to losing their jobs. A return to work by the power strikers is urgent. Even if they return today it will take at least three to five days to obtain supplies of components to restore production. 
This highlights another factor- the long-term consequences of the disruption as well as the immediate loss of jobs. Manufacturers only gradually get back into full swing after such a severe disruption detrimentally affects them. Even if the power workers return to work today, the detrimental effects on their fellow employees in South Australia will continue at least until Christmas. 
South Australia's regional economy is being greatly affected to its detriment by the power strike in Victoria. That is why this issue is a matter of such great public importance. The people of Australia are entitled to know the way in which the abuse of union power, condoned by honourable members opposite as we heard a few moments ago from the honourable member for Gellibrand, is sabotaging economic recovery and adding to unemployment in Australia, despite the sound economic management of the Fraser Government. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation following those remarks by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
-I welcome the opportunity to comment on the Industries Assistance Commission report on passenger motor vehicles and on the Government's decision concerning that report. The Industries Assistance Commission report was produced as the result of a reference from the Government in accordance with its current policy of ensuring that 80 per cent of the Australian market for passenger motor vehicles is to be retained for local producers. The Commission was requested on 13 July 1977 to report on what additional action was necessary and for what period to ensure that the policy was fulfilled. The Commission reported on 12 September. The Government announced its decision on this report last Thursday, 6 October. While awaiting this report the Government reimposed quantitative restrictions in the form of quotas to ensure that local producers were restored to an 80 per cent share of the market. These quotas were removed at the end of 1976 in accordance with the Government's manufacturing plan which involved the entry of Toyota Motor Co. Ltd and Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd to local manufacturing. The decision was announced in April 1976. 
Additional import restrictions were instituted in the context of the disruption faced by the industry in adjusting to a new Australian content plan, the establishment of two new manufacturers under that plan and the generally depressed economic environment. As part of the adjustment process some plan entrants have continued to import substantial quantities of vehicles to complement models produced in Australia under the plan. I welcome the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation that quantitative import restrictions should be continued until 3 1 December 1979 and the Fraser Government's adoption of that recommendation. 
The recommendations and the Government's decision are both justified. The motor vehicle manufacturing industry in Australia faces specific problems of a short-term nature as a result of Toyota and Nissan establishing themselves as local manufacturers. Notwithstanding the very generous protection provided for the industry by this Government in the form of a 45 per cent tariff on imported vehicles, additional assistance is justified in the short term to enable the implementation of the manufacturing plan. Honourable members should be reminded that, briefly, this plan involves an average 85 per cent local content for Australian manufacturers who thereby obtain duty concessions on the remaining 15 per cent of the components with a 45 per cent tariff on fully imported vehicles. From the beginning of 1980 all five manufacturers will be operating under this plan. Therefore they have adequate opportunity to adjust their operations and to overcome short-term problems in the interim period.. 
The 85 per cent plan provides the opportunity for rational development of the industry from then on. Because of the improved economic climate which will exist by then as a result of the continued sound economic management of the Fraser Government, the industry should be capable of operating on the basis of the 85 per cent content plan by 1980 without additional heavy protection in the form of quotas on imports. Hence, the Industries Assistance Commission has recommended that quotas cease as from 31 December 1979. The Government has not accepted this recommendation. It has reserved its decision on longer term quotas until 1979. I believe the Government must make its decision on the issue of quotas for the long term before 1979, preferably as soon as possible. The Government must not be trapped into deferring decisions which are necessary for the long-term welfare of the motor vehicle industry and for the growth of the Australian economy by short-term problems and immediate decisions which are needed to overcome those short-term problems. 
There is a clear need for a stable policy for the motor vehicle industry with a clear indication of how long any additional assistance might last. There is evidence of considerable disruption to the activities of manufacturers, importers, material suppliers and other interests, resulting from the likelihood of import restrictions being imposed or discontinued at short notice as market conditions change. Until a clear statement is made uncertainty, disruption and lack of rational investment will continue to be a feature of the industry and its market. Therefore, any scheme for continued additional assistance in the long term must be made public as soon as possible and in as much detail as possible. It should be subject to the minimum of change for its duration. 
-I am glad for the support of the honourable member for Moore in those comments. The manufacture, importation and distribution of motor vehicles require substantial investments, employ large numbers of people and in many cases, necessitate long lead times. The disruption caused both to manufacturers and to importers by off-again on-again restrictions is substantial as are the problems which can result from lack of knowledge of the present or future basis of any quantitative restrictions. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report highlights a number of significant problems in continuing excessive protection for the motor vehicle industry in the long term through quotas on imports. Import restrictions limit supplies, raise prices and restrict the consumer's right to choose an imported product rather than one made locally. If locally manufactured products become increasingly less competitive with imports or if the size of the market is growing, quantitative restrictions will progressively increase the assistance to the industry, unless they are adjusted to take account of these factors. Import restrictions shelter the industry from long term adjustment pressures and encourage uneconomic investment which will worsen the competitive position of the Australian industry. Import restrictions accentuate inflationary pressures. 
Importers have an inducement to increase prices to take advantage of the excess demand created for imported vehicles and in such a highly protected market local manufacturers do not have the same incentives for cost control and resisting wage demands. Import restrictions could have a detrimental effect on Australia's trading relations. If import quotas are allocated according to historical market share, potential importers and those wishing to expand their businesses are penalised. Also, as we are aware, administrative costs of quota restrictions can be substantial. Quotas based on past performance have the largely unavoidable effect of rigidifying the market as it was in the period before quotas were applied. There is no practicable scheme of import restrictions for this industry which would not result in some inequities between companies. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has recently been condemned by some for ignoring the employment aspects of its various recommendations. Whatever the situation in past reports, this report gives detailed consideration to employment aspects. 
While the Government's aim in the implementation of its policies is to maintain levels of employment in the motor vehicle industry, it is by no means certain that the continuation of quantitative restrictions will maintain levels of employment in the motor vehicle industry. Employment in 1977 was lower than in 1976 as a result in part of the decline in demand for passenger vehicles. Any further decline in demand will also lead to further reductions in employment. In addition, the eight companies manufacturing or assembling vehicles in Australia have varying employment patterns and a significant switch in demand for vehicles produced by GMH, Ford or Chrysler to Nissan and Toyota vehicles could also lead to a reduction in total employment in the industry. 
Apart from employment by manufacturers, a substantial number of people are employed in the distribution and sale of passenger vehicles, both locally produced and imported. The operations of smaller importers and their dealerships are relatively labour intensive and their improved viability as a result of the increased quota allocations should make a contribution to the maintenance of employment levels. Certainly in the longer term if their capacity to market vehicles is restricted by the long term maintenance of import restrictions in the form of quotas their capacity to provide employment will be restricted It is worth noting a recent report published in the United States, entitled 'The Imported Automobile Industry: A new assessment of key aspects of its impact on the US economy and the American consumer'. One of the findings of this study was that the imported automobile industry generates at least as many American jobs as would exist if that industry were eliminated and its sales of new cars were replaced by an equal number of domestically produced cars. It also found that on balance the imported automobile industry probably provides a net increase in employment in the United States of America. 
The IAC report also highlights the overall impact on the economy of the continuation of excessive protection in the long term. Excessive protection will result in significant and pervasive cost increases throughout the economy, which will reduce employment opportunities outside the passenger vehicle industry. Previous assistance measures have already resulted in Australian consumers paying in absolute terms much higher prices for cars than consumers in most other developed countries. Estimates made by the Commission in its 1976 report indicated that the net subsidy equivalent of the assistance provided by the tariff of 45 per cent and the local content plan was equal to $337m per annum. The subsidy equivalent of quota assistance cannot be so easily measured. Other Australian industries, as well as individual consumers, are major buyers of passenger vehicles and their capital and operating costs are also raised by excessive assistance measures. Evidence from one company indicates that up to 50 per cent of sales of passenger vehicles are made to other than private motorists, although the proportion would be smaller for most other companies. 
A further indication of the inflationary effects ' of higher vehicle prices can be gained from an analysis of the consumer price index. Between December 1974 and December 1976 the contribution of increased motor vehicle prices, in percentage terms, to the increase in the consumer price index was about 8.6 per cent; that is, about one-twelfth of the increase in the consumer price index in that period is directly attributable to increased vehicle prices. Quantitative import restrictions ensure that the level of assistance provided to the industry increases as its cost position against imports worsens. This additionally will not help to maintain Australia's good relations with its trading partners. 
When we are considering this issue it should be recognised also that the market-sharing policy and the restrictions currently imposed have not been an essential part of the Government's long term plan for development of the industry. The Government's recent White Paper on manufacturing industry has stated that sectoral marketsharing policies are intended to provide only short term support and are subject to certain conditions. The following quote from the White Paper indicates this very clearly: 
In recognising the possible need for policies for particular sectors however, the Government is not setting out to establish a list of key industries' which would be accorded special treatment of an ongoing nature in order to insulate them from pressures of change. Rather the approach envisaged is one of providing support for a defined period during which real efforts should be made by industry itself to improve its structure and efficiency, thereby helping it to achieve a better and more certain long term outlook. 
By 1 January 1980 the two new manufacturers, Toyota and Nissan, will be operating fully under the 85 per cent content plan and the existing manufacturers should have had adequate opportunity to adjust their operations. By the end of 1 979 assistance by means of direct import restrictions will have operated for about four and a half years and the operation of restrictions beyond this time would be inconsistent with the Government's policy of providing such assistance for a defined short term period. Therefore I support the contention of the Industries Assistance Commission that at that time the continuation of quantitative restrictions on the importation of motor vehicles should be discontinued. 
The Government must recognise that the motor vehicle industry must compete in the long term on the basis of the 85 per cent content plan and the 45 per cent tariff on imported vehicles. This 85 per cent content plan provides the opportunity for long term growth and stability. Excessive protection and continued changes to policy will not achieve this. In the long term a government which is committed to free enterprise must encourage any industry to face its market realities. Rigidifying the market through quotas ignores economic and technological change and changing consumer preference. I am confident that the industry, and in particular Chrysler Australia Limited, can compete in the long term on the basis of the 85 per cent content plan and can compete without the excessive protection which is provided by the imposition of import quotas. 
I commend the Industries Assistance Commission report and I commend also the Government 's decision on that report with regard to the short term extra assistance to be provided. But I urge the Government to take a very close look at the long term situation of this industry and to provide assistance in the longer term purely on the basis of the 85 per cent content plan which was established and introduced last year. As I said, I believe the industry can compete in the long term on that basis. That was a 10-year plan- a plan looking to the future. I believe that that is the plan that should be continued. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources aware that Australia, despite its long coastline and notwithstanding the recent launching of the Royal Australian Navy's HMAS  Cook,  which has some oceanographic research capacity, still does not have a properly equipped seismological survey ship and that Australian scientists virtually have to hitch rides on ships of other countries to undertake research. In the light of this inadequacy, is the Government concerned about Australia's ability to build up its knowledge of the resources of the sea, particularly with the proposed extension of the coastal economic zone to 200 miles? Will the Government allocate the relatively small funds required to purchase a seismological survey ship? 
-In recent years the community has grown accustomed to the inconvenience caused by the breakdown of computers or by errors in computer calculations. This has taken some of the gloss from the benefits which have flowed to us from computer technology. Sadly I have to report that a computer has failed yet again. I draw the attention of the House and of the Government to a computer error which has caused 70 people named Smith to be omitted from the 1977-78 Adelaide telephone directory which has been distributed in recent days. A number of constituents have advised me of this disastrous omission after receiving their new telephone books. 
With their proliferation, I know that it can be difficult to look up people named Smith, but this is certainly no valid reason for dropping at least 70 names from the directory. The missing section is between pages 507 and 508 in the new directory. Page 507 ends with G. E. Smith and page 508 begins with G. F. Smith. Last year's directory contained almost 18 columns listed 'Smith'. The new directory, with the omission of some 70 names, contains almost 19 columns. I have discussed these omissions with Telecom staff in Adelaide. They have advised me that a computer malfunction has caused the error. Apparently the people whose names are missing from the new directory have no redress against Telecom because directory listing is regarded as a free service. I believe that this is most unjust because undoubtedly the cost of producing the telephone directory is incorporated in overall telephone charges. 
One of my constituents affected by this omission,  Mr Gerald  M. Smith of Young Street, Seacliff, and his family are most distressed by the situation.  Mr Smith  retired recently. The non listing of his name could be interpreted by some people as meaning that he no longer had the telephone connected. The community service work of  Mr Smith  as a justice of the peace and as a member of the Brighton Rotary Club will be detrimentally affected by this omission. The rest of his family is also extensively involved in community activities. This is just one example of the many problems which have been caused by this computer error. 
It is a bungle, as the honourable member for St George so rightly says. Following my discussions with Telecom it has agreed to send letters of apology to those whose names have been omitted. It has also suggested that people wishing to telephone the Smiths not listed should contact Directory Assistance on telephone No. 013 in Adelaide. Although this is some consolation I believe that it is not sufficient action by Telecom to overcome the problem. The least that Telecom should do is to advertise the list of missing names in daily newspapers and suggest to business houses and the general public that they place this list in their telephone books, as well as to place the list in telephone books contained in public telephone booths. 
Also I believe that Telecom should post the list to all subscribers- if not independently then at least with their next telephone account, even though through that method there may be some delay in its receipt by subscribers. I strongly urge the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to take up these proposals with Telecom and ensure that they are implemented, because quite clearly the measures which have already been agreed to by Telecom are not sufficient to overcome these omissions. I believe that more action is required by Telecom and, if necessary, the Government should put pressure on Telecom to ensure that further action is taken so that the people who have been detrimentally affected by these omissions will at least have some redress. 
-Does the Minister for Construction recall my recent representations on behalf of a group of small builders in the construction industry in South Australia? Has the Minister seen today s reports suggesting that the latest consumer price index figure will show that the rate of increase in the cost of living for the September quarter has been held to three per cent or less? Can the Minister say whether this good news is reflected in the building and construction industry? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I do, in an article which appeared in this week's  National Times  dated 24-29 October 1977 under the heading 'The Men Who Live in Fear of an Early Election'. That article attributes certain remarks to me in the context of speculation about the timing of an election and also my prospects of holding the seat of Kingston. Several remarks attributed to me in the article misrepresent the comments which I made to the author. Firstly, the article states: 
. Chapman gives himself only a 50/ 50 chance of holding it . . . 
He is referring to the seat of Kingston. In fact, when speaking to the author I gave myself a better than even chance of holding Kingston. Certainly the events that have transpired since that interview would have markedly increased the chances I have of holding that seat. 
Yes, it would be 70:30 by now, as the honourable member for La Trobe said. Secondly, I was quoted as anticipating a swing to Labor of at least 4 per cent. In fact, I said that the maximum swing to Labor could be up to 4 per cent. My comments set an upper limit of a possible swing of 4 per cent but the article quotes as the lower limit a swing of 4 per cent. 
The comment which I made to the author of that article on inflation as an election issue was made in the context of the Government's success in overcoming that problem. This, of course, has been further emphasised by the release last Thursday of the consumer price index figures showing an increase of 2 per cent for the September quarter. 
There were also comments in relation to the timing of an election. I prefaced those comments by stating clearly that it was the Prime Minister's prerogative to call an election when he thought the electorate should pass judgment on his Government's performance. I expressed no strong preference for any election timing. 
On the basis of the Government's performance and my own active and effective representation of Kingston constituents I said that I was ready to face the electors at any time. I did express some slight preference for December 1977 or December 1 978 over May 1 978 because I said there may be some school leavers still seeking employment at that time. But I certainly did not give that point the strong emphasis which it is given in the article. I made it el lear that that was m fact only a temporary problem. I stated very clearly to the author that all the economic indicators and predictions by experts indicated that the second half of 1978 will show strong economic recovery with significant improvement in the employment situation. 
The final misrepresentation of course was the heading of the article which stated 'The Men Who Live in Fear of an Early Election'. I repeat that I am happy at any time to account for my stewardship of the electorate of Kingston. I said as quoted that things can change rapidly. Certainly in the month that has transpired between the conducting of that interview oy the author and its publishing in the  National Times  this week things have changed rapidly. We have seen the abuse of union power abetted by the Labor Party, and we have seen the Government's continuing success on the economic front which makes me well prepared for any election. 
-Ih speaking to the estimates for the Department of Science for 1977-78, I commend the Government on providing for a number of important new initiatives through its allocation of $204.4m to the Department of Science. 
This allocation allows for an increase of approximately one-third in spending on research in Australia 's Antarctic Territory. This, of course, is a region of increasing importance. Another initiative is the provision of funding for Australian owned and operated facilities for receiving and processing data from the Landsat earth resources technology satellites. The data from these satellites has a series of applications of both economic and environmental importance. 
I particularly commend the Government's allocation of funds to 16 research projects related to the development of solar energy. This demonstrates the Fraser Government 's consciousness of our future energy needs and the role which solar energy will play in the future in fulfilling those needs. 
However, there is one area which I believe needs increased attention and needs to be given a higher priority by the Government- that is, our knowledge of the resources of the sea. Honourable members may recall that last week I asked the Minister for National Resources a question without notice concerning this matter. 
Australia, despite its long coastline and the proposed extension of the coastal economic zone to 200 miles, still does not have a properly equipped seismological survey ship. Australian scientists virtually have to hitch rides on ships of other countries to undertake their research or, as the Minister for National Resources prefers to describe it, they have to enter joint arrangements with other international institutions. In answering that question last week the Minister indicated that he would like to see more oceanographic research undertaken and also indicated the Government's continuing interest in this sphere. He said that, although funds are not available within the current expenditure restraints, he hoped that we would be able to provide funds for the purchase of such a ship in the future. 
Notwithstanding the expenditure restraints, I believe that this issue is a matter of priority. I believe that the need for a seismological survey ship is urgent. I encourage the Government to give the purchase of such a ship a far higher priority than is apparent thus far. 
The joint arrangements in which Australian scientists have been involved are not totally satisfactory. They lack flexibility in the undertaking of research and also, of course, there is always a security problem with the sort of research which some scientists may desire to undertake in regard to our resources of the sea. One of the current objections to the purchase of a seismological survey ship is its cost, as I mentioned a moment ago, in relation to expenditure restraints. Firstly, I refer to the capital cost of such an initiative. The initial cost, of course, is for the purchase of a vessel. A suitable vessel need not be a new ship. There are a number of suitable secondhand vessels available; for example, those which oil companies may have used in the past for similar work. In fact, last year one such vessel was sold for $1.3m. Certainly a suitable ship could be obtained for an overall capital cost of less than $4m. 
On top of the cost of the basic ship there is the need for the appropriate research equipment. The capital cost of this would amount to less than $lm. There is a need for equipment related to geophysical research, hydrography and core drilling. Examples of the sort of equipment and the costs of such equipment would be: A gravimeter, which would cost approximately $250,000; a magnetometer, at a cost of approximately $ 100,000; and air guns, at a cost of approximately $50,000. In addition to that, there would be some need for computing facilities. Some universities and other research institutions already have appropriate equipment which could be applied to this purpose. In addition, some funds could be provided for the purchase of equipment through the Australian Research Grants Committee. 
In addition to these capital items, running costs, of course, are associated with such a survey ship. In the United States and West Germany, similar types of vessels operate at a cost of approximately $10,000 a day, including the cost of crew. When we consider the overall cost of the purchase and operation of a seismological survey ship, I believe that it is a relatively small amount in the context of the Government's total Budget expenditure. 
I acknowledge the need for overall expenditure restraint in the current economic situation. I also acknowledge that there are, of course, always competing priorities to which the Government must give attention, but I do believe that the Government should give this matter a high priority. There are a number of reasons for this. Firstly, there is a range of uses to which a seismological survey ship could be applied to fulfil vital needs in Australia. The extension of the coastal economic zone to 200 miles provides Australia with a very large continental shelf. It is a continental shelf of which we have very little knowledge. There is an absence of basic geological research to establish, for example, the minerals potential within that continental shelf. We do not know what minerals are available there for exploitation; equally we do not know what minerals are in fact lacking. A second important aspect of this issue and a use to which the ship could be applied is the establishment of the extent of Australia's fishing capabilities and the extent of available fisheries. Of course, quite apart from the economic potential of this aspect there is its importance in a hungry world. 
Another use to which such a vessel could be applied is the study of the currents surrounding Australia. A close and detailed knowledge of currents, for example, could save sailing time. As all honourable members are aware, Australia's trade is still, to a very large degree, dependent on ships for transport. It has been estimated by West Germany, for example, that a detailed knowledge of the currents of the Atlantic Ocean saves that country one day's sailing time each trip in trade between West Germany and the United States. Certainly, with the degree to which Australia depends on sea transport for its trade, similar savings could be effected by a detailed knowledge of currents around Australia which could be obtained from research undertaken by a seismological survey vessel. In addition, knowledge of the currents is important also for determining harbour locations and structures. On top of that is the more esoteric and purely scientific research to which such a ship could be devoted. 
The need is urgent because it is quite possible that other countries know more about our offshore areas than we do. I believe that in the long run the cost of not having such a vessel could be more than the cost of providing funds for its purchase as soon as possible. Almost every development seaboard country has at least one seismological vessel. 
I believe that the Government should set up a section within the Department of Science to administer the purchase and operation of such a vessel. The Department should establish a base from which the vessel would operate, provide for its maintenance and provide training for its crew and other people involved in its operations. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member for Kingston will continue his speech. 
It is not the same but I shall discuss the matter afterwards with the honourable member for Hunter. I believe also that the Department should provide data processing facilities to process the various items of information which would be obtained as a result of the research undertaken by this vessel. On this basis institutions could apply for the use of the ship, for an allocation of the time of the ship for their individual purposes. That time would be allocated through the Department. Institutions such as the universities, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Mineral Research would be such bodies. A committee should be established to oversee the research priorities and to allocate the use of the vessel to particular institutions. There certainly is ample demand for the use of such a ship and it would not lie idle. 
In conclusion I want to commend the Government for its overall commitment to scientific research as indicated in the Budget appropriation for the Department of Science. I congratulate the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  for his enthusiastic and efficient management of the portfolio. However I urge the Government to give high priority to the purchase of a seismological survey ship to ensure that Australia maximises its knowledge of its undersea resources and reaps the economic rewards for the benefit of all Australians. 
-Does the Minister for National Resources recall that it was one of the Government's 1975 pre-election policy undertakings that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority established by the previous Labor Government should be abolished and that assets acquired by it should be divested? Can the Minister advise on the position reached in respect of these undertakings? 
-Contrary to the remarks that we heard a few moments ago from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr 
Morris), the Bill before the House- the Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Bill 1977- is a further clear demonstration of the Fraser Government's commitment to provide an effective transport system for the Australian people, and particularly of its commitment to overcome the problems of urban transport in developing outer suburbs such as are found in the southern half of the Kingston electorate. This commitment to solving urban transport problems has been evident in the last two Budgets presented by the Fraser Government. Funds provided for urban public transport in those two Budgets give the lie to claims by the Australian Labor Party for partisan political purposes in a pamphlet which it circulated recently in the southern areas of the Kingston electorate. 
This Bill is a further demonstration of the Fraser Government's concern for urban transport. It continues and extends arrangements for section 96 grants to the States for land transport planning and research and provides $8m for the 1977-78 financial year for various projects undertaken by State governments. That funding is provided on a two for one basis, with $2 being provided by the Commonwealth for every $1 provided by the State government involved in such a project. The Bill broadens the scope of assistance to cover all forms of land transport and the relationship of land transport to other modes of transport. In accord with the Government's commitment to federalism, the legislation gives the States greater flexibility in implementing and managing their planning and research projects. The Commonwealth Government will approve and provide funds for a total State program rather than for each individual project. The States will have the power to allocate funds between the various individual projects. Hence power and responsibility are being handed back to the level of government closest to the people. 
The Commonwealth Government will continue to provide co-ordination to ensure the elimination of duplication of research and will establish a forum for discussion and comparison of programs. A key role of the Commonwealth Government will be the dissemination of information obtained under the program through annual progress reports and final project reports and combination of this information with information also provided by its own authorities and information gained from related international research programs. Programs of transport planning and research have thus far been a successful co-operative effort between Commonwealth and State governments. Advantages have accrued to both sides which would not have been possible otherwise. I refer to several projects conducted in South Australia which indicate the benefits flowing to the community from this allocation of Federal Government funds. A project of major significance, which has been given number one priority by the South Australian Government in its applications for funds and which draws the major proportion of funds, has been the joint North-east Area Public Transport Review and the Modbury Corridor Technology Evaluation. A primary objective of this study, which began some 18 months ago, is to determine the public transport investment required to form part of the total transport system for the north eastern suburbs of Adelaide to fulfil their needs in the next decade, and also to provide a planning basis for the next 20 to 30 years. 
According to the South Australian Department of Transport, when it launched this project in March 1976 it had no preconceived notions of the correct answer to public transport investment in the north-eastern suburbs of Adelaide. The State Government promised the highest level of public participation in the decision-making process ever attempted by planners in Australia. According to this proposal, planners have been seeking active involvement of the people for whom the planning has been undertaken. This is regarded as a revolutionary approach to transport planning. NEAPTR has involved a whole range of detailed research projects. These include population trends, movement patterns and land use. Public meetings have been held to obtain the views of the public with regard to their own needs, explain alternative proposals and to seek the views of the public on them. Considerable publicity in the media has been engendered throughout the development of this project. 
Part of the function of the project in determining the best way of fulfilling the transport needs of the people of the north-eastern suburbs has been to assess and balance the disadvantages caused to one group of residents by the benefits given to another group- for example, the effect of the extra noise in suburbs Uke Walkerville and St Peters caused by the extra and faster traffic flow needed by residents of the outerlying suburbs of Tea Tree Gully or the conflict between residents confronted with a new bus route redirected down their street and residents in the next street who benefit from that new service. This study is supposed to have been based on the principle that much of the information which is relevant to any decision is not held by experts but by ordinary people in the community. It is local people who understand local problems, their own specific needs and how their own community works. 
Notwithstanding these claims, significant criticism has been made of the NEAPTR project. The State Government owns much of the land along the possible high speed Modbury Corridor, providing a compelling financial reason for the final decision concerning transport for the area to favour that route. The critics believe that the public outcry which accompanied the original acquisition program for this corridor would be repeated if a different route is chosen. Hence NEAPTR has been condemned as a mere public relations operations, with the results of the inquiry a foregone conclusion and private consultants having been engaged to present the inquiry to the community. Apparently public meetings called by NEAPTR, supposedly to engender public discussion, have been poorly advertised and cancelled at short notice. Critics have condemned the State Government and NEAPTR as dishonest in their investigations and presentation of material. 
Personally, I do not have sufficiently detailed knowledge of the project to adjudicate these criticisms. However, some of the conclusions of the study which have recently received publicity may give some substance to them. Certainly it appears that the Modbury Corridor will be used to establish an express busway or tramway. Also of concern is the proposal to reserve a traffic lane on the Main North-east Road for buses in peak hour traffic. Even the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  admits that this may have a detrimental effect on the traffic flow of motor vehicles. Whatever initiatives occur in the expansion of public transport faculties, the motor car will remain the preferred means of transport for the great bulk of the community. A squeezeoutthemotorist campaign through withdrawing access to traffic lanes will only compound rather than solve our current transport problems. 
In view of the fact that two-thirds of the funds for this project-that is, some $356,462 out of a total cost of $534,754- since its inception have been provided by the Commonwealth Government, I believe that the Commonwealth Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  should investigate these criticisms to ensure that these significant sums of Commonwealth money are being spent wisely for the benefit of the community. Despite these criticisms, I believe that the information gleaned by the NEAPTR research is of great value in planning effectively for the transport needs of the north-eastern suburbs of Adelaide. This is particularly so with regard to the need for cross-suburban transport routes in Adelaide, an issue which I have raised previously in this House. 
One criticism which I believe has some validity is that top priority in transport research should have been given to the southern areas within the Marion and Noarlunga council areas instead of to the north-eastern suburbs. No doubt the State Labor Government has ignored the transport needs of the people of these areas, and the residents of the Kingston electorate, for political purposes. Negligence of the southern areas by the State Government is confirmed by the fact that it is conducting this NEAPTR research project in preference to research into overcoming the transport problems of suburbs such as O'Halloran Hill, Morphett Vale, Reynella, Christies Beach and Port Noarlunga. 
This is  Mr Virgo  again. As I said a moment ago, no doubt there are political motivations behind the decision to conduct research in the north-eastern suburbs rather than in the southern areas. Whilst the north-eastern residents will have the luxury of a full transport program established on the basis of detailed research, the residents of the south will be left lamenting with a few cosmetic changes which were hastily introduced before the last State election. 
As the honourable member for Mitchell says, it is a shame. Two other projects in South Australia which have been funded under this Commonwealth legislation are research into the viability of an electrically powered vehicle and also a steam powered vehicle. In an era of declining energy resources, particularly declining liquid hydrocarbon fuels, these two projects are of great significance to our future transport requirements. The Commonwealth has provided $2 1 ,642 out of a total cost of $32,662 for the electric car project and $12,826 out of a total cost of $19,241 for the steam car project. One thing that concerns me is that further funds for these two projects have not been provided this year. The South Australian Government did not see fit to give them sufficiently high priority in its list of projects submitted to the Commonwealth Government for funding to obtain an allocation of funds for them. Of even greater concern is the attempt by the State Labor Government to blame the Commonwealth Government for the lack of continued funding for these projects. The plain fact is that the State Government placed these projects way down on its list of priorities so that even with the very generous funds provided by the Commonwealth Government they did not get a guernsey. By contrast, the NEAPTR project has been given number 1 priority in submissions and therefore funding has continued. These are three rejects of nearly one hundred conducted in South Australia with Commonwealth funds under the terms of the previous legislation. 
The Bill now before the House will continue that program and that funding. The Commonwealth Government in this way is making a very significant contribution to fulfilling the transport needs of South Australians but the South Australian Labor Government and the Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  stand condemned for one aspect of their use of these funds. Each of the projects which I have mentioned in some detail has received considerable media publicity in South Australia initiated by the State Government. NEAPTR in particular has been publicised in special lift-out features in several of Adelaide's newspapers, in particular the two major daily newspapers in that city, but the only mention of the Commonwealth Government has been the misrepresentation about the funding of the electric and steam cars and the criticism of the Commonwealth Government associated with that misrepresentation. I note that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is nodding his head. Obviously he is aware of that misrepresentation. 
In not one of the many statements on these projects which have been used in the great wad of newspaper articles, some of which I have here, has any mention been made of the Commonwealth Government and the fact that two-thirds of the money for these projects has been provided by the Commonwealth Government. Publicity has been used purely for the purpose of self- aggrandisement of the State Labor Government and the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo. Mr Virgo  has been ever ready to misrepresent the Fraser Government. It is about time he gave some credit where it is due. As I mentioned, a moment ago, the plain fact is that the Commonwealth Government has provided $356,462 out of $534,754 spent on NEAPTR; $21,642 out of $32,662 spent on the electric car and $12,826 out of $19,241 spent on the steam car, as well as two-thirds of the cost of the many other projects, which, as I mentioned, number nearly one hundred. 
It is the Commonwealth Government which has made these projects possible through its generous provision of funds, not the Dunstan Labor Government on its own, as it would attempt to have us believe through media publicity. The South Australian people should be aware of this in view of the barrage of misrepresentations that have been initiated by the Dunstan Government about the Commonwealth Government over the last two years. The transport planning and research program has provided a good example of CommonwealthState co-operation. Let that co-operation and the major Commonwealth involvement in it be acknowledged at the State level, as it is here. This Bill will enable that co-operation to continue and ensure the effective use of resources. It is about time that the State Government, and also the Labor Party in this place, recognised the contribution that is being made by the Fraser Government to public transport projects. 
I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks that a leaflet had been distributed recently in the southern part of the Kingston electorate which misrepresented the situation in regard to Commonwealth funding for urban transport. 
Yes. They do it all the time. This year urban public transport will benefit through the provision of $51m, as against $58m last year. The pamphlet was designed to convince the electors of Kingston that there had been a massive slashing of funds by the Commonwealth Government. The pamphlet listed as an achievement of the Fraser Liberal Government the fact that less money had been provided to the States for programs such as public transport programs. The funding which I mentioned a moment ago, $51m, is in fact a minor reduction of some 12 per cent in the 1977-78 Budget over the 1976-77 Budget, not the 21 per cent which was claimed in the heading on that pamphlet which was distributed. 
-The way they misrepresent the Commonwealth Government's funding of projects in that State is a scandal. Given the need to restrain government spending, which has stemmed from the previous Labor Government's extravagance, this is a commendable effort. As I said, it shows that the Fraser Government still gives a high priority to urban public transport needs. The slight reduction m the Budget this year is in comparison with the Fraser Government's Budget of the year before. The inference in that pamphlet is that the Fraser Government has slashed spending on urban public transport in comparison with the previous 
Labor Government. The heading of that pamphlet is therefore grossly misleading. Add.tionally, the assertion in the pamphlet that the Fraser Government is providing less money for urban public transport is a downright lie. The $5 8m provided in the 1976-77 Budget was nearly twice as much money for urban public transport as that provided in the last Labor Budget of the year before. Fortunately for all Australians that will be the last Budget the Labor Party has a chance to bring down in this place for many years to come. 
As I have mentioned already, a further $51m has been provided for these transport projects in the current Budget. This includes $5m specifically committed as the Commonwealth Government's contribution to new projects in 1977-78. It should be noted that this is the first allocation of Commonwealth funds for new works under this scheme since 1974. It is also the only money allocated to new projects of any type over the whole range of government expenditure in the 1977-78 Budget. This initiation of new projects contrasts with the Labor Party's performance in government in 1975 and the misleading claims about which I have spoken. It shows that the Liberal-National Country Party Government cares about people who are dependent on public transport. Hence in two years in office the Liberal-National Country Party Government has provided $109m for urban public transport. This is 40 per cent more than the previous Labor Government provided in three years. This point should be emphasised. The $109m provided by the Fraser Government in two years is 40 per cent more than the Labor Government provided in three years. This shows how the Fraser Government has given a higher priority to this area than the previous Labor Government. During a period of necessary restraint on government spending and cutbacks in spending m many areas of spending the Government has increased funding in areas of real need such as urban public transport. It is providing much more money at a time of restraint than Labor saw fit to give in its era of free, easy and uncontrolled government spending which caused our economic problems. Whether one looks at the Bill now before the House or at the overall Budget allocation for urban public transport, one sees that the Government is definite in its commitments and has provided the funds for the States to get on with the job. Certainly this piece of legislation, the Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Bill, will continue that funding in a very special area and will continue the opportunity for the 
States to conduct research on a two for one basis next year and on a 50/50 funding basis thereafter. I commend the Bill to the House and urge its speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 4 November 1977: 
Is the Government giving consideration to the adoption of a policy on conservation of whales similar to the policy reported as having been established by resolution at the recent Federal Council Meeting of the Liberal Party of Australia; if so, when does he anticipate announcing the Government's policy on this matter. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Productivity. Has the Minister communicated with the South Australian Premier in such a way as would justify the Premier claiming in the South Australian Parliament yesterday that the Federal Minister for Productivity is so favourably impressed with the industrial democracy policy of the South Australian Government that the Premier had had a request from the Federal Minister that the Federal Minister should address a world conference on industrial democracy being organised by the South Australian government to be held in that State at the end of May? The Premier claimed that he acceded to this request and welcomed the constructive participation of the Minister for Productivity. I ask the Minister whether the Premier's assertions are correct. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in supporting the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech I ask that you congratulate the  Speaker  on his elevation to the knighthood in the New Year's Honours and also on his re-election to the Chair of this House. I believe his re-election is a due reward for the effective way in which he presided over this House during the last two years. Certainly, as a new, young member in the last Parliament I appreciated his guidance during that period. I ask also that you congratulate the new  Chairman  of Committees on his election to that position. I believe that we have seen from his performance so far in this House that he will develop a reputation as an effective  Chairman  of Committees. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  for the way in which he chaired the committees during the period of the last Parliament and also for the reputation which he developed over many years in previous Parliaments as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker.  I also congratulate the Government on its return to office in the election of 10 December. I believe that the massive support engendered for the Government on that occasion was due reward for the policies it effectively implemented over the last two years. 
In that regard I would like also to thank the electors of Kingston for returning me to serve them for another term in this Parliament. I gained much satisfaction in serving their needs over the last two years and I am certainly looking forward to continuing that task not only in this Parliament but also in future Parliaments. I would like to thank personally the supporters and members of the Liberal Party, particularly the members of my campaign executive, who worked so hard during the recent election campaign to communicate the Government 's policies to the electors of Kingston. My ability effectively to represent the electors of Kingston over the last two years was in no small measure due to the support which I had from my parents over that period. That support was evident in many practical ways, particularly on the domestic scene. However, that support also was evident during the recent election campaign, particularly the support of my father who was actively involved, virtually as a Man Friday, in the campaign. In fact, he drove so many miles that at one stage we were expecting the secretary of the Transport Workers Union, Jack Nyland, to knock on the door and ask him to sign up. As honourable members probably are aware, under the Dunstan Government in the State of South Australia compulsory unionism is much in evidence. 
-The honourable member for Grey says that we have not but I think that if he looks at the record he will see very clearly that compulsory unionism is very much in evidence in South Australia. The electorate of Kingston has experienced some changes in its boundaries as a result of redistribution which took place prior to the last election. I must say that I am sorry that I no longer have the privilege of representing the area of Glenelg, which had a long historical association not only with the electorate of Kingston but also with the general coastal area that remains part of the Kingston electorate. 
I do not know whether that is true. I think they were quite happy with the representation they received and I hope that the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  gives them equally effective representation. 
I am sure that he will. I am pleased now to represent the area south of the Onkaparinga River, particularly as it contains the renowned Southern Vales grape growing and wine producing area. This is an industry of great importance to South Australia and it is an industry which is suffering particular problems at the moment. During the life of this Parliament I intend on occasions to raise some of the problems of that industry. 
In noting the changed nature of the Kingston electorate it is appropriate to consider the nature of some of the changes which have occurred in Australia in recent years. These changes have created problems which will require new solutions over the next generation, the generation of my own age group. Australia has reached the end of what might be called the post-war era. This is evident in social, economic and political terms. The social signs of decay are observable. They include collapsing faith in the old moral verities; a decline in disciplined behaviour and dedicated purposefulness; a sense of social disintegration and growing division in society; the erosion of the authority of the institutions of Australian society, increasing violence and a proliferation of transient cultural trends appealing to the instincts rather than engaging the spirit, such as R-rated movies, punk rock, post-object art and drug abuse. 
This social malaise has been accompanied by economic decline. The post-war era was a long period of dynamism fuelled by the baby boom of the 1940s and the 1950s and a wave of high level immigration. Behind quotas and tariff walls was the growth of 'import replacing manufacturing' which had emerged during the isolation we experienced during World War II. This was accompanied by remarkable growth in service industries, both private and government controlled. In recent years the growth fuelled by all of these factors has burned out. The growth impulse from 'import replacing manufacturing' has run its course. This was inevitable given the size of the Australian domestic market. 
This economic decline would have been minimised had a Liberal-National Country Party government remained in office throughout this period. Understanding the needs of the private sector and the fact that government services can be expanded only in line with the growth in real wealth in the economy, a Liberal-National Country Party government would have retained a firm hand during this period of economic change and pointed the economy in the right direction. 
Unfortunately for Australia during the period 1972 to 1975 we suffered the misfortune of a Labor Government. If Australia can ever afford a Labor government, and I believe it cannot, 1972 to 1975 was certainly the period when it could least afford it. Instead of remedying the emerging problems, the policies of the Labor Government exacerbated them. Manufacturing industry, which had a growing export market to overcome the inadequacies of its domestic market, had its ability to compete on international markets destroyed by the exorbitant wage increases encouraged by the Labor Government. Excessive growth in the public sector, which was evident before the advent of the Labor Government, massively accelerated during that Government's term of office through its uncontrolled spending of taxpayers' money. 
Public sector growth has been a significant factor in the destruction of our dynamic post-war growth. With it came increasing bureaucratic involvement and regulation at more and more detailed level in the economic life of the nation. 
The public sector gained ever increasing patronage over the private sector and the life of individuals, eventually reducing both to stunned immobility. This process created a new phenomenon- the public sector interest group, comprising collections of workers occupying State-controlled monopolies in the provision of services, claiming an unwarranted affinity with motherhood and the holidays to go with it, because of its ostensible distance from the allegedly sordid notion of profit. Unfortunately, at its peak, this new interest group found allies in the Labor Government with an insatiable taste for interventionism 

 Mr CHAPMAN I am glad to have the support of the honourable member for Holt in that regard. This became the second prong for battering our economy, particularly because of the absence of incentives for public sector efficiency and its excessive size relative to our total economy. Hence tax resistance developed among ordinary citizens and taxation reform became a major issue. 
In these circumstances the political instability of the first half of the 1970s, which was unparalleled in Australia's history, is not surprising. The massive support for the coalition parties in the 1975 and the 1977 general elections shows that this political instability is behind us. It gives the Fraser Government the opportunity to overcome the social and economic malaise which has been evident in the recent past. 
The return of the Fraser Government in the 1975 general election halted the economic decline which began under competent but complacent Liberal governments prior to 1972 and which accelerated with disastrous consequences under Labor during 1972 to 1975. Over the last two years, the Fraser Government has methodically reversed the worst excesses of the Labor Government. It has instituted a realistic attitude to wages; it has halted spiralling government spending and the growth of the public sector and has instituted significant taxation reforms. The Fraser Government has thus established the preconditions for the restoration of economic growth, particularly as interest rates continue to fall. 
The extent to which these pre-conditions will be successfully exploited over the life of this Parliament and into the future, depends on the inventiveness of all Australians. The Government must provide firm leadership to show the way in this regard. Clearly, renewed growth in the economy is dependent upon the deployment of resources to areas where they can compete at an international level- to areas where we have a comparative economic advantage. To maintain investment in sectors of the economy requiring excessive tariff protection or other heavy-handed government intervention for their survival will dampen recovery and, far from maintaining employment, overall will prevent an increase in employment opportunities. The Government's White Paper on Manufacturing Industry published last year clearly recognises this and the need to restructure our economy. 
While it is important to attempt to maintain our traditional markets, including the European Economic Community for Australian goods, renewed growth in the economy requires that we turn our face to Asia. It also requires that the Fraser Government further positively implement its liberal philosophy. A progressive breaking up of the mosaic of detailed government controls and bureaucratic red tape and supervision of our economic life and its replacement by a broader brush liberal approach will free our economic system, allowing market forces to operate thereby allowing an outward looking export oriented strategy to flourish. This must occur gradually and with structural adjustment assistance, where required, to prevent severe economic disruption. But it must occur sufficiently quickly to be seen to be happening. 
Potential gains from an outward looking export strategy towards Asia in a progressively de-red taped economic environment are striking. It should be noted that the nations involved in the Association of South East Asian Nations together already rank second to New Zealand as an export market for our manufactures. East and South East Asia comprise one of the fastest growing economic areas in the world. Our economy has an unparalleled opportunity to benefit from participation in this dynamic scene to our north. This strategy implies the injection of a new dynamic into manufacturing and agriculture and the continuation of our successful mining activities. World development experience shows that restructured manufacturing would grow strongly and that rural Industry would be revitalised. The benefit to Australia from increased trade with Asia depends on the development of industries whose output complements rather than competes with those of developing Asian market economies. These include foodstuffs, processed inputs to various industries, capital intensive industries, skill intensive services and high technology sectors. 
These changes will offer new hope to those most able and willing to change; a whole generation whose employment prospects were blocked by the end of the postwar era- our young people. The expanded employment opportunities for young people through dynamic growth in our economy under this strategy will provide the base for overcoming the social malaise to which I referred earlier. It will provide worthwhile and achieveable goals for young people. 
Social stability will ensure political stability and the survival of our liberal democratic system. It will also ensure that the Liberal-National Country Party coalition government remains in office for many years to come. Young people, having experienced the benefits of strong economic growth and of a society in which the Government has removed itself from the pockets of people through taxation reform and in which in a general way there is less intrusion into their everyday lives through the removal of bureaucratic red tape and intervention in our economy would never wish to return to the policies espoused by a Labor government. 
Therefore I have much pleasure in supporting the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency,  the Governor-General. That Speech outlines the progress this Government has made in restoring economic prosperity to Australia and certainly in restoring the pre-conditions for renewed and strong economic growth over the life of this Parliament and for years to come. I strongly support the Address-in-Reply and I oppose the amendment. I commend new members of this House, particularly the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  and the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  who moved and seconded this AddressinReply motion. Their maiden speeches and the maiden speeches of other new honourable members in this House have made a worthwhile contribution to this debate. I look forward to further effective contributions from them over the life of this Parliament 
-The Australian National Railways Amendment Bill 1978 completes the arrangements for the takeover of the South Australian country railways and the Tasmanian railways by the Federal Government. In particular, this Bill makes provision for the long service leave and workers compensation rights of the railway employees transferring from those State railway services to the Australian National Railways. The Bill legislates for the agreement reached on long service leave. That agreement provides that any transferring South Australian employees who make application for long service leave or pay in lieu after the declared date, which is 1 March 1978, will be entitled to either the State provisions that apply on 1 March or the Commonwealth provisions that apply on that date, whichever provisions are the more favourable. 
The agreed arrangements in respect of workers compensation are that transferring South Australian employees will be given the right to elect at the time of injury to have their claim for compensation dealt with under either State or Commonwealth workers compensation legislation. In ensuring that these employees are not disadvantaged this legislation is commendable. But, of course, the legislation should never have been necessary. 
The necessity for this legislation is a legacy of a major disaster of the previous Whitlam Labor Government, that is, its centralist takeover of the South Austraiian country railways and the Tasmanian railways- a takeover which never should have occurred. This takeover was initiated following the election of the Labor Government in December 1972. The then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitiam,  wrote to the various State Premiers indicating the willingness of the Commonwealth Government to enter into discussions with the States to determine whether a mutually satisfactory basis for a transfer could be devised. The Victorian and Queensland governments did not accept this offer and the Western Australian and New South Wales governments, although initially commencing discussions, soon withdrew. However, the South Australian and Tasmanian Ministers for Transport were more compliant. As a result of this the then Commonwealth Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, had a number of meetings with his South Australian and Tasmanian counterparts and reached agreement in principle for the transfer of the South Australian country railways and the Tasmanian railways. 
A formal agreement to transfer the nonmetropolitan South Australian railways was signed by the then Prime Minister and the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  on 21 May 1975 and a similar agreement to transfer the Tasmanian Government railways was signed by the then Prime Minister and the then Tasmanian Premier on 23 May 1975. Legislation ratifying and giving effect to these arrangements was passed through the Commonwealth Parliament on 10 June 1975. In the case of South Australia, implementing legislation was introduced at a State level on 10 June 1975. Following an election for the House of Assembly and the Legislative Council in that State it was passed through both Houses. The South Australian agreement transfers only the non-metropolitan railways. Under the agreement all South Australian railways staff have been transferred to the Australian National Railways and the staff necessary for running metropolitan railways are being contracted back to the State Transport Authority. 
The main feature of this transfer of railways, particularly in the case of South Australia, was the financial arrangement between the Commonwealth and the State governments. In this regard South Australia received a net benefit to the State's revenue of $10m in 1974-75. In addition, the Commonwealth Government paid the State $ 1 6.4m as a final payment to accompany its withdrawal from the Grants Commission, in lieu of amounts it would have received from 1974 to 1976 and in the 1976-77 financial year. South Australia was also given a permanent addition of $2 5 m to the base formula of the financial assistance grants to that State as compensation for its withdrawal from the Grants Commission. This represented a continuing and permanent financial gain to South Australia. South Australia also gained the advantage of being relieved of the operating losses of its non-metropolitan railways, which since 1974-75 have been around the $30m per annum mark. The State was also relieved of its capital expenditure of about $5m per annum on these railways. Of course the latter mentioned financial benefit was accompanied by reductions in the general purpose funds available to the State, but these reductions were less than the $30m deficit incurred by the railways. Hence a further permanent and escalating budgetary gain was made by the State. 
From this summary of the financial arrangements between the previous Commonwealth Government and the South Austraiian Government it can be seen that the Federal Labor 
Government of that time did not care what it paid to get centralist control of South Australia's country railways. The result was that the then Federal Government was conned by the Dunstan State Government into paying a fortune for the takeover. Of course, the two governments were in philosophical agreement about the nature of the railways takeover. The Dunstan Government was ever ready to comply on a philosophical basis with the Commonwealth Government taking over the running of its country railways, although it should be noted that it reserved the metropolitan railways to its own administration.  Mr Dunstan  was eager to get his hands on to the money flowing from this cynically over-generous Federal Labor Government. 
As I mentioned earlier, the legislation to give effect to this takeover was passed in the middle of 1975. Therefore, when the Fraser coalition Government came into office the implementation of the takeover had gone too far to be reversed. The Commonwealth Solicitor-General advised the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the railway transfer agreements were valid by virtue of the legislation approving them. Hence, the Government proceeded to complete the rail transfer arrangements. The Bill currently before the House is a further aspect of the completion of those arrangements. 
What has been the result of this takeover for South Australia? Firstly, the metropolitan railways, which the State Government retained under its own administration because it claimed that it could operate those railways more efficiently once it had the alleged millstone of the country railways removed from its administrative responsibility, have in fact increased their losses since the Commonwealth Government has taken over the country railways. However, even more disastrously, in the three short years since that takeover the Dunstan Government has dissipated the whole of the generous financial benefit which was obtained from the Commonwealth through the handover of the country railways. 
In the financial year just prior to the takeover the State Government had a Budget deficit of $8m. What might be regarded as a somewhat artificial injection of funds through the takeover of the country railways enabled the State to balance its Budget for the next couple of years. Hence this takeover enabled the Dunstan Government to hide its real financial mismanagement over that period. However, this financial year the Dunstan Government has budgeted for a deficit of $ 18.4m. Despite that disastrous increase in the budgeted deficit the Premier recently announced that by the end of the financial year the Budget deficit would be $26m. This is despite the fact that the Premier in his Budget allowed for an inflation rate for the financial year of 12 per cent when it will in fact turn out to be only 9 per cent and that the Government's wages and salaries bill will turn out to be $5m less than provided in the Budget. Hence, if the Budget had been adhered to, with the savings from the lesser rate of inflation and the lower requirement for government wages and salaries, the deficit should have been only $8. 4m. Instead it has now been announced that the deficit will be $26m. This is the worst deficit ever recorded in South Australia's history. It exposes the Dunstan Labor Government as being similar in nature to the Whitlam Labor Government which this country suffered from 1972 to 1975 as regards financial management. It has been only the transfer of these railways that has managed to hide the State Government's financial mismanagement over the last couple of years. 
The railways money has been dissipated over a period of three years. Virtually four generations' inheritance of endeavour has been dissipated in three years, as a young man might lavish an inheritance on his mistress in jewels and furs. There has been no lasting benefit to South Australia through the expenditure by the State Government of the money acquired through the transfer of the railways. South Australia has the largest public service, per capita, of any government in Australia. 
-That is a matter that is open to debate, if we look around the nation. 
We will ask them at the next State election. I am sure that they will give their verdict. Apart from this rapid growth in the State Public Service there have been other areas of non-productive State government expenditure. The money certainly has not been used to provide improved transport facilities in South Australia. One would have thought that, given that this money came from the railways- an element of transport- the State Government would have seen fit to allocate a significant proportion of it to improving that State's transport facilities. For example, the electrification of the Christie Downs railway still awaits implementation. There is a significant lag in the provision of better bus services for the residents of South Australia, particularly those living in the developing outer suburbs as contained in the Kingston electorate. 
One could ask the question: What predicament would the State finances be in if this generous financial provision had not been available through the takeover of the country railways? I shall leave that for honourable members to answer. Clearly, from the figures I gave a few moments ago we can see that had that money not been injected into the South Australian budgetary situation that State Government's finances would have been in a disastrous situation. They are already heading towards disaster in the current financial year. Over a period of three years the funds obtained by the South Austraiian Government from the handover of its country railways have been dissipated without any real and lasting benefit to the citizens of the State. The Commonwealth Government now has the responsibility of administering those railways and it has to bear the cost of that administration in the future. One would have expected a continuing benefit to South Australia from that transfer; but, as I have explained, that just has not occurred and the current budgetary situation of the State Government is such that South Australia will go further into hock in future financial years. As I mentioned a moment ago, the South Australian people will pass their judgment on that aspect of the State Government's administration at the next State election. But that is not the only predicament which faces the State Government at the moment. Other matters have aroused public awareness of that Government's incompetence in recent times. 
Notwithstanding this, the Commonwealth Government is maintaining an active interest in the affairs of railways and in particular in its relationship with the States with regard to railway services. Recently a number of new measures to assist railways operated by State governments were announced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  The Federal Government has undertaken to provide substantial support for the setting up of the Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation which is designed to improve the railways systems ' analysis and development capability. The Federal Government is also to provide substantial capital assistance, amounting to some $70m over the next five years, to upgrade State government railways that are part of the main interstate national railway network, and $65m to upgrade interstate railways in Western Australia. 
So the Commonwealth Government, in contrast to the South Australian Government which was only too ready to quit its railways for a temporary financial benefit, is maintaining an active interest in railways and in the provision of an effective railway service for the citizens of Australia. The Minister is to be commended on the interest he is showing in this area, because there is no doubt that at a national level railways do and will play an important part in this nation's development. Therefore the overall interest which has been shown by the Minister and by the Government is commendable. That is reflected in part in this Bill, which I support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) What consideration is the Government giving to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. 
When will the Government announce its attitude on those recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
Is he giving consideration to the Horton Report on Public Libraries and Information Services presented to the Parliament in April 1976; if so, when will the Government announce its attitude concerning the recommendations of the Report. 
-The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1978 is a significant piece of legislation. It fulfils the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his 1977 election policy speech of the provision of a new assistance program for urban public transport, through non-repayable grants to the States, amounting to $60m a year for five years. Before the Australian Labor Party came to power in 1972 its members made a great deal of political capital out of the urban public transport needs of the major cities in Australia. The Fraser Government came to office at the end of 1975. In the 2 years since then it has provided $109m to the States for urban public transport projects. That represented an expenditure of 40 per cent more than the $79m which the Labor Government provided during its three years in office. 
-That is right. As the honourable member for Swan said, all that honourable members opposite do is talk. An amount of $60m is to be provided each year under the Bill which is now before the House. Therefore, an amount of $ 169m will be made available by the LiberalNational Country Party Government in its first 3 years in office compared with the $79m provided by the Labor Government over a similar period. That is a 1 14 per cent increase in expenditure. Of course, it is worth noting that this commitment by the Fraser Government has been made in a time of expenditure restraint whereas the money provided by the Labor Government was made available at a time of free and fairly lax financial management. It is very much a case, as the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  said, of the Fraser Government getting on with the job while the Labor Party mostly talked about it. This is further demonstrated in this Bill. 
This legislation will appropriate $300m for urban public transport projects. We propose to increase federal assistance for urban transport by some 58 per cent over the current program which provided for expenditure of $190m. This is a clear demonstration of the concern of this Government to do all that it can to improve public transport in Australia's major urban centres. It is a particularly significant increase when once again viewed against the difficult budgetary situation. 
The legislation contains some provisions similar to the present agreement but will incorporate significant new features to provide for a known guaranteed level of future funding and to allow easier administration to meet States' wishes, in accord with our commitment to federalism. 
The decision to commit the Commonwealth Government to a five-year funding program is particularly important. The Fraser Government's vision in recognising the need for long term planning in this area is to be commended. This Bill will enable States to enter into long term contracts secure in the knowledge of guaranteed levels of assistance from the Commonwealth. Under current arrangements the level of Commonwealth assistance was determined in the annual budgetary context. One example of relevance to South Australia is that contracts for the supply of buses have been guaranteed assistance from Commonwealth sources under the current arrangements only in respect of works carried out on units delivered within the one year. Under the new arrangements any State will be able to secure a guarantee of assistance for contracts covering a five year program. 
The Bill, therefore, gives each State a basic guaranteed allocation. Over the five years of the program this guaranteed amount will total $200m of which South Australia will be granted $20m at a rate of $4m per annum. The remaining $100m of the Commonwealth's contribution is available for allocation to the States at the rate of about $20m per annum. Each State's share of this unallocated amount will be decided annually on the basis of needs and priorities assessed in the light of proposals put foward by the States. Such an approach will allow us to respond to changing needs and circumstances and priorities throughout the five years of the program. It provides an essential element of flexibility for the Commonwealth and the States. 
The Government faced some difficulty in determining the appropriate allocation of funds between the States. There is no comprehensive urban public transport document which provides a clear basis for determining needs and priorities. I refer, for example, to the Bureau of Roads report on road funding. The Bureau of Transport Economics report entitled 'Urban TransportCapital Requirements 1977-78 to 1979-80' provides only an indication of the gross order of States' needs and not what would be feasible or desirable for the States to undertake in that trienium. Consequently, various alternative ways on which funds could be allocated were investigated. The approach adopted in the legislationa partial allocation of funds between the States and the remainder to be decided by the Minister- means all States are guaranteed a basic share of the program. 
It will still be incumbent upon the States to provide properly supported justification for all projects, including those to be funded within the guaranteed allocations. The remaining funds can be distributed according to needs and changing circumstances. The allocation between the States of the $200m is of necessity an arbitrary one. It represents a best judgment. It compares favourable with the States' shares of population in urban areas, with approved and expected final allocations under the current program and with taxation reimbursement shares. The Bill provides for a process of consultation between the Commonwealth and the States after submission of proposals and before decisions are made on the projects the Commonwealth will support. Approval of a project may extend up to the full period of the program, that is, five years. All proposals are to be supported by information required to determine, firstly, the economic and social value of the proposal; secondly, the relevance of the proposal to overall urban transport objectives and policies; thirdly, the relevance of the proposal to urban development policies; and finally, the environmental impact of the proposal. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting, I was addressing my remarks to the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill. I did mention how not only this Bill but also the financial commitment of the Fraser Government to urban public transport projects showed, the Government's far greater commitment to aiding the States in this area than that of the previous Labor Government. On the basis of a three-year comparison, the Fraser Government will have provided $169m compared with some $79m by the previous Whitlam Labor Government- that is, 114 per cent more. It must also be recognised that this money provided by the Fraser Government has been provided in a time of expenditure restraint, whereas the lesser amount provided by the Whitlam Government was provided in a time of free and easy spending. I also addressed some remarks to the new and changed provisions under this legislative initiative and how they differ from the previous arrangements with the States in regard to funding for urban public transport projects. 
As I understand the position, all State governments have greeted these new proposals for urban public transport assistance with great enthusiasm. I understand that they are particularly happy with a five-year allocation of funds rather than an annual allocation of funds. Even the South Australian Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  is pleased, so the legislation must be good. I am glad that  Mr Virgo  has taken the advice which I offered him on the last day of the last Parliament and has acknowledged the initiatives of the Fraser Government with regard to urban transport. Previously, the South Australian Government had tried to cover its own inadequacies in this sphere by blaming the Commonwealth Government. Of course, that will not wash with the public, and that was shown very clearly in the result in that State at the last Federal election. The public is more intelligent than that. I hope that the Dunstan Government will now get behind what the Federal Government is trying to do and acknowledge its achievements. South Australia gained considerable benefit from the previous agreement and will do likewise under this Bill. 
Projects approved in South Australia from 1973-74 until 1977-78 amounted to nearly $30m, involving a Commonwealth contribution of nearly $20m. Projects have been approved for $ 16.63m associated with the upgrading of bus operations and fleets, consisting of the acquisition of 195 buses plus 59 Volvo bus bodies, 67 Leyland Swifts and 121 Volvo B59s are included in that 195. The remainder of that 195 is made up of prototypes and buses acquired by private operators. Funds have also been applied for minor capital works consisting of the purchase of land for depots, light service vehicles, buswashing equipment, building improvements and the construction of 120 passenger shelters. 
Another major project which was approved was the extension and duplication of the Christie Downs railway, involving $7. 16m. This serves the rapidly growing outer suburban area to the south of Adelaide within the Kingston electorate. It was completed in August 1977, but it should be noted that this completion occurred with very little acknowledgment of the Federal assistance involved. Funds of half a million dollars were approved for making improvements to the upgrading of the Glenelg tram route, consisting of the installation of warning devices at 10 crossings and overall upgrading of the tramways reserve. This, of course, is another project which is of particular importance to Kingston residents. 
In 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78, South Australia had approved by the Federal Government the reallocation of its funds to assist in the acquisition of further Volvo B59 buses. Reallocation of funds in 1975-76 permitted the acquisition of 45 Volvo buses at a cost of $3m, of which the Commonwealth's two-for-one share was $2m. In 1976-77 a reallocation cancelled the electrifiction of the Adelaide to Christie Downs railway which allowed $4.839m -of which the Commonwealth share was $3. 226m- for the acquisition of an additional 73 Volvo buses. In 1977-78 another reallocation permitted the cancellation of parts of the project termed 'other capital works' and provided $205,000 towards the acquisition of another three Volvo buses. These reallocations of funds from one project to another should be noted. These reallocations are undertaken at the initiative of the State Government with the Commonwealth Minister's approval, but in one instancethe abandonment of the electrification of the Christie Downs railway- the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  blamed the Federal Government because that project was not going ahead. The figures that I mentioned earlier show very clearly that the electrification project was abandoned because the State Government gave higher priority to the purchase of extra buses and sought Commonwealth approval to reallocate about $5m from the electrification project for the purchase of buses. It is this sort of misrepresentation by the State Minister of Transport to which I made reference earlier. 
-Mr Virgo, yet again, and I hope this enthusiasm for this legislation, which seems to be apparent, signals an end to that sort of behaviour from him. One project which was undertaken with Commonwealth funds under the existing arrangements by the South Australian Government deserves condemnation, and that is the takeover of all private bus operations in and around Adelaide. This blatant socialist initiative has caused a significant deterioration in the standard of service available to people who previously were dependent on private bus services. The State Transport Authority has shown since that takeover that it is not capable of providing the same service to the people that the private operators previously were able to provide. One area that is drastically affected in this regard is around Christies Beach in my electorate of Kingston. As a result of numerous complaints to me about the inadequacies of transport facilities following the takeover of private operators, the State Liberal candidate for Mawson, Tony Boyle, organised a series of public meetings on this issue last year. Attendances were so significant that  Mr Virgo  was prompted to promise improved facilities, but since the State election last year these promises have remained unfulfilled. I trust that the present Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  will use some influence under this legislation to ensure that the South Australian Government gives the southern areas a high priority for better bus services. The Minister has nodded his approval in that regard, and I am glad to have it. 
He certainly is an understanding Minister. He is a top class Minister in this very important area of transport. Of course the takeover of those private operators was approved as a project under the Whitlam Labor Government. Had the Fraser Government been in office then, I am sure that approval would have been denied and an efficient private service would have been retained in the southern areas. 
On that basis I hope that the present Federal Minister will carefully scrutinise any proposals from South Australia under the new legislation. 
One project for which funds may be sought involves the implementation of the recommendations of the North East Area Public Transport Review. This review has proposed the establishment of a transport corridor in the Torrens River Valley. I have received a significant number of representations objecting to this proposal even though the project is not in my own electorate. Therefore, I believe that the Federal Minister should very carefully examine any possible proposals in this regard before approving funding. 
The current agreement has seen undoubted benefits flow to urban public transport. We have seen new rolling stock in trains, trams and buses added to the fleets of public transport operators. Railway track extensions and additional tracks have been constructed to increase the capacity of systems. It is now not unusual to see people allow older rolling stock to pass so that they can catch the new bus, train or tram that is following. I believe this is a clear indication of the value the community attaches to the improvements in comfort and ride provided by the rolling stock funded under the urban public transport. 
Within my own area of Kingston substantial increases in ridership have occurred since the Christie Downs railway was opened. Patronage at the Christie Downs station is already exceeding 1975 predictions by 30 per cent. Particularly pleasing is the fact that more than 50 per cent of the users previously travelled to central Adelaide by car. The success of this project is a clear indication that well planned public transport improvements can increase patronage, particularly by attracting previous car users. 
The need for adequate urban public transport is beyond dispute. Road congestion, car parking and pollution problems reinforce the need for a transport system which provides alternative means of urban mobility. We must never neglect those members of our society who depend upon public transport services. The funding and administrative arrangements provided by the Fraser Government under this Bill are a significant improvement in our methods of assisting the States to improve those services. I commend the Minister for Transport for this initiative and support the Bill. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House censures the Leader of the Opposition for his mischievous and misleading public statements relating to the Australian motor vehicle manufacturing industry. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the future of employment in Australian industry assisted by statements that major firms are about to go out of business? 
-I move: 
That this House censures the Leader of the Opposition for his mischievous and misleading public statements relating to the Australian motor vehicle manufacturing industry. 
The honeymoon for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is over. Every new political leader enjoys a honeymoon period during which blunders may be overlooked and treatment by the Press is kind and perhaps even favourable. However, the uninformed statement by the Leader of the Opposition on motor vehicle manufacturing in Australia, motivated by political partisanship, must signal the end to the honeymoon for this inadequate pretender to the Prime Ministership. The Leader of the Opposition must be brought to account for his continuing negative and destructive influence, on Australia 's economic life. 
-Those remarks of the honourable member for Denison are absolutely accurate. The people of Australia should be reminded that the aura of responsibility of the current Leader of the Opposition is a mere facade. This is shown by direct reference to his performance when the Australian Labor Party Government was in power. As a senior Minister in the Whitlam Labor Government, he must share responsibility for all its disastrous policies. More specifically, as Minister for Social Security, he initiated massive increases in health and welfare expenditure which the nation could illafford. In 1972-73, expenditure on health and welfare was $2.88 billion. By 1975-76, this expenditure had expanded to $8 billion. Of more significance, expenditure on health and welfare, as a share of total government expenditure, expanded from 28.3 per cent in 1972-73 to 36.7 per cent by 1975-76. The Leader of the Opposition also engineered the Medibank rip-off which created an environment for the massive explosion in health costs. Then, as Treasurer, he expanded Government spending by 23 per cent. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) What nursing homes approved under the Nursing 
Homes Assistance Act and National Health Act are situated in the Electoral Division of Kingston. 
What are the names and addresses of the registered owners of each home. 
3 ) How many beds are in each home. 
4) What are the weekly charges in each home. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the public statements of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, for example, at Horsham, Victoria, on 24 February 1978, that Australia's population growth justifies a significant increase in the number of members of the Federal Parliament; if so, what plans does the Government have to implement this view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) What sum was paid under the EPUY scheme to persons in the Electoral Division of Kingston (a) during the year 1976-77 and (b) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of Kingston have received funds under EPUY during (a) the year 1 976-77 and (b) the period 1 July 1977 to date. 
-This discussion of a matter of public importance proposed by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  today follows on from the events of last week in this Parliament and announcements by Chrysler Australia Ltd. In his remarks the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  suggested that my credibility with the workers at the Chrysler plant was nonexistent following my successful moving of a censure motion against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  last Tuesday. Of course, what needs to be recognised is that that censure motion was directed against the misleading statements made by the Leader of the Opposition that Chrysler was likely to go to the wall shortly. In fact, in moving that censure motion I referred specifically to the employment situation at the Chrysler plant- the retrenchments that had occurred- and I referred to those retrenchments as an essential part of Chrysler's rationalisation and modernisation plan. The fact is that Chrysler is engaged in the son of rationalisation that the honourable member for Hawker proposed a few moments ago in his remarks. The retrenchments which have occurred are a part of that rationalisation. They are a part of the action which Chrysler has taken to ensure its longer term viability. What the Leader of the Opposition was saying was that Chrysler is not going to be viable, and that is why a motion of censure was moved last week by me. The retrenchments announced by Chrysler the day after that censure motion was agreed to are of course a consequence of the actions which Chrysler is taking to ensure its long term viability. In a sense the retrenchments themselves negated that earlier statement of the Leader of the Opposition and therefore warranted censure of him in this Parliament. 
We have heard the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Hawker in support of this discussion on a matter of public importance. It is worth pointing out that there is some conflict in what they have said. As I have already mentioned, the honourable member for Hawker very commendably said that there needs to be rationalisation and greater efficiency within the industry. That is exactly what Chrysler is doing at the moment. Yet the honourable member for Adelaide in proposing this matter for discussion suggested that what is occurring at Chrysler is the result of the callous attitude of this Government. That is not so. It is the result of Chyrsler responding to the long term needs of this industry- a need for greater competitiveness and a need for greater productivity, as the honourable member for Hawker has suggested is necessary. Clearly there is conflict between what the two members of the Opposition have said to us this afternoon. 
The honourable member for Adelaide talked about four-cylinder engine plants. He neglected to tell the House that the four-cylinder engine plant at Lonsdale is still going ahead and that Chrysler is investing significant funds. 
Despite what the honourable member interjects, the four-cylinder engine plant is going ahead irrespective of the scale. In addition, other engine plants are going ahead. So far as engine plants are concerned, employment in the production of engines will be as great if not greater than it would have been if there were only one engine plant. There may well be certain advantages in having one engine plant rather than several but the point is that the companies on their own initiative have made a decision- a commercial decision- based on market prospects to establish engine plants. What the honourable member for Adelaide wants is to have government intervention- heavy handed government intervention- with bureaucrats controlling the industry by going out to tell the manufacturers what to do, telling them they can have only one plant and denying them the right to make a commercial decision. This is the sort of heavy handed socialism that we have heard from the honourable member for Adelaide. That sort of policy is obnoxious to anyone on this side of the House because we recognise the importance of free access to markets, the importance of the market and commercial decisions being made according to market forces. It is on that basis that the fourcylinder engine plants are being established in this country. 
The honourable member for Adelaide really suggested in speaking in this discussion that we should induce some sort of stability in output. That is, government policy should continually change at every change of direction in the market and at every change in direction by consumer demand. Under this proposal, whenever the market forces change, the policy would change. Output would remain the same and the situation of the industry would remain the same. The result of such a policy would be a stagnating economy without any encouragement to develop productivity. It is the same sort of thing which the Labor Party's socialist policy endeavours to do with the society at large, that is, produce an equality of output instead of an equality of input. It is just not possible. It is not possible to do that with society at large and it is not possible to do it with the manufacturing industry. What we need and what the industry needs is stability of inputs. To achieve that objective the industry needs stable government policies- the sort of situation that has transpired since the Fraser Government has been in office. I mentioned those last week. 
At three levels, the Government has provided stable policies for industry. In the sense of overall economic management, it has provided stable policies. In the sense of specific policies that are directed at manufacturing industry, such as the investment allowance, once again it has provided suitable long term policies. At the third level, with particular reference to the motor vehicle industry, it also has provided a stable policy with an 85 per cent content plan and quotas on imported vehicles to give a guaranteed 80 per cent market share to local manufacturers. The honourable member for Adelaide wants the Government to run after every hare that emerges in the market situation and to try to forestall changes in our economic structure and changes in industry. Those changes are necessary if industry is to remain competitive. Of course, if that were to happen we would then see the sort of instability that was clearly evident during the regime of the last Whitlam Labor Government with policies changing continuously and overnight. Industry did not know where it was. It did not have a clue what sort of policy was to be announced next by the Whitlam Labor Government. What are needed and what have been provided by the Fraser Government are stable long term policies upon which industry and the people involved in business can make long term decisions. Knowledge that the Government's policies will be long term policies is essential. It means that industry does not have to take account of overnight changes in government policies. What it has to take account of is the market situation and the labour cost situation. All those commercial inputs are the factors which industry has to take account of in making its decisions. 
That is the very situation which Chrysler Australia Limited faced in making its announcement last week. It was faced with the situation that, very largely as a result of the wage explosion which occurred and, indeed, which was encouraged by the Whitlam Labor Government, manufacturing industry has to become less labor intensive if it is to have a viable future in Australia. If Australian manufacturers are to be able to compete against imported products, it is essential that they become more efficient and more productive. Of course, the way to do that is to overcome the tremendous cost increases which have occurred as a result of the wage increases granted during the term of office of the Whitlam Labor Government. The Fraser Government's wages policy has stabilised those costs in recent times by stabilising wage increases. But the industry still has to take account of past history, including the fact that in the three years of Labor Government rule the relationship between wages and productivity got well out of kilter. 
The decision by Chrysler reflects that fact. It reflects that, as a result of that period, for its future viability the company has to become less labour intensive and has to become more efficient and more productive. That it is doing so is reflected in the point that during this financial year its productivity has increased from 1 60 units a day to 166 units a day. There has not been a downturn in production at Chrysler, as the Opposition and the Press would have us believe. The Press beat up this story last week and tried to confuse the two issues, namely, Chrysler's efforts to become more efficient and the employment situation at Chrysler. Production has not taken a downturn at Chrysler Australia Limited; it has increased, notwithstanding the fact that retrenchments have occurred. As I have said, the retrenchments are part of Chrysler's rationalisation program- a program which is directed towards its long-term viability. 
The other thing that reflects Chrysler's long term viability is its recent sales performance, particularly with the Sigma car which it has introduced into the market. On the basis of the increased sales of that vehicle in recent monthsparticularly, the one-third increase in April compared with March- Chrysler is extremely confident about its future viability. More recently it has released to the market the Scorpion and the Sigma station wagon, which will have a further impact and will further improve its market position and therefore the viability of the company. Certainly Chrysler has no doubts about its future viability. In fact, the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia,  Mr Des  Corcoran, also has no doubts about its future viability. It is only the attempt of the Opposition to talk down that company, to talk down the motor industry in general and in fact to talk down the economy which has led to the suggestion that there is a long term problem with that company. The actions taken by the company are directed towards its long term viability and it will confirm that. The company has every confidence in its future. 
I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether, with the Prime Minister and other Ministers, he was involved last night in discussions with representatives of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation concerning the proposed retrenchments at Chrysler Australia Ltd works scheduled to occur over the next 18 months as part of that company's rationalisation program, directed towards ensuring its long-term viability? If so, can the Minister advise the House of the outcome of those discussions? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Kingston currently receive pensions or other benefits from the Department of Social Security. 
How many persons are receiving each type of pension or benefit. 
How much in total is being paid for each type of pension or benefit for recipients in the Electoral Division of Kingston. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Kingston currently receive pensions from the Department of Veterans 'Affairs. 
How many persons are receiving each type of pension. 
How much in total is being paid for each type of pension for recipients in the Electoral Division of Kingston. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
Does the Government plan to expand the Former Regular Servicemen's Vocational Training Scheme so that it can provide training for former servicemen with less than 15 years service. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) What was the total expenditure, both capital and recurrent, on the Australian School Dental Service in 1 976-77. 
How many children were fully under the care of the ASDS in 1976-77. 
What surveys have been undertaken on the dental health of children after they have ceased to be under the care of the ASDS. 
-Before the sitting was suspended remarks were being addressed to clause 6 of the legislation by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  In his remarks at that time he referred to expenditure of money on housing by the Commonwealth Government in recent years. This repeated some remarks that he made in his speech in the second reading debate and reinforced virtually the same points that he was making on that occasion. He made the point that in 1974-75 advances of Commonwealth money for housing as a proportion of total Commonwealth Government expenditure were 2. 16 per cent but by the current financial year, 1977-78, this had fallen to 1.46 percent. 
In drawing attention to that, the honourable member for Reid was implying that the blame for this reduction in expenditure lay with the Fraser Government, that it had been initiated by the Fraser Government. But if we look at the table which he himself has had incorporated in  Hansard,  we find that the major reduction in expenditure during that period was in the 1975-76 Budget, when in fact from the peak of 2.16 per cent, advances for housing as a proportion of total Commonwealth Government outlays fell to 1.67 per cent, that is, a fall of 0.49 per cent in one year. In the subsequent two years of the Fraser Government the expenditure, as a percentage of total Government outlays, has fallen only a further 0.21 per cent, that is, about 0. 1 per cent per year compared with 0.49 per cent in that Hayden Budget of 1975-76. 
It needs also to be remembered that that reduction in 1 975-76 occurred in a year when overall expenditure increased by 23 per cent, whereas in 1976-77 and 1977-78 expenditure overall has increased by only about 10 per cent in each of those years. So, notwithstanding the fact that there was overall quite a significant increase in spending in that Hayden Budget, housing money as a proportion of the total was cut back by about one-half per cent. Yet in two subsequent years when the overall increase has been much less, the cut-back has been a far smaller percentage. 
The second point which the honourable member for Reid tried to make in relation to this clause concerning expenditure was that on 1966-67 prices- that is, converted to constant prices- net new expenditure had fallen from $139.3m in 1974-75 to $79.6m in the current financial year. He again ignored that the great bulk of that decline took place in the 1975-76 Labor Budget, a decline to $ 102.1m. That is, in real terms, a decline of $37m in that one year. In the subsequent two years of the Fraser Government the total reduction in funds in real termsthat is, at constant 1966-67 prices- has been only $22m. So in the one year 1975-76 in real terms the Labor Government reduced spending by 26.4 per cent whereas over the subsequent two years combined the Fraser Government has reduced spending by only about 20 per cent. 
So when we talk about expenditures, as we have been doing in relation to clause 6, we need to remember that if we are going to lay the blame for reductions in expenditure on anyone, then the great bulk of that blame must be laid at the feet of the Labor Government and that Hayden Budget of 1975-76 particularly when, as we recall, that Budget was not really a Budget of restraint in that it increased spending by 23 per cent whereas the two Fraser Budgets since then have been Budgets of restraint, increasing spending overall by only 10 per cent in each of those years. 
-The Housing Assistance Bill 1978, is an effective demonstration of the Fraser Government's commitment to the provision of adequate housing for the people of Australia and of encouraging the widest possible enjoyment of home ownership. Before directing attention to the Bill I pay a tribute to the man who- more than any other man probably made the greatest individual contribution to Government housing policy in Australia. That man had a strong influence indeed on this legislation and on the Commonwealth and State' Housing Agreement to which the legislation gives effect. That nian is the late Alex Ramsay C.B.E., General Manager of the South Australian Housing Trust' from )949 until his untimely death last Thursday, 25 -May, at the age of 63. 
Alex Ramsay is regarded around Australia as the father of public housing policy. He was certainly one of South Australia's most distinguished public servants and humanitarians. He was  Sir Thomas  Playford 's right, hand man in planning South Australia's post-war ind us.tralisation and providing housing for its workers. Under him, the South Australian Housing Trust provided nearly 100,000 residences for more than 400,000 people, that is, about one-third of the present population of South Australia. Under him the Housing Trust earned the reputation of being Australia's most efficient public housing body. For several years before entering this House I knew Alex Ramsay through his family. I became more closely associated with him over the past two and a half years. 
He certainly was a. very mee man, as the Minister for Health has said. He had a remarkable reputation. Oyer the past two and a half years I was more closely associated with him through his association with the South Australian Housing Trust's role in the development of Noarlunga, within the Kingston electorate. Apart from his obvious ability, his most striking feature was his humanity and kindliness. He was ever ready with a kindly word of encouragement or advice during conversation. Occasionally he would relate with glee one of the' stories about the negotiations by himself and  Sir Thomas  Playford with unwilling landowners for land required by the Housing Trust in its early days. 
Notwithstanding the heavy demands of such a senior position, Alex Ramsay still devoted time to numerous voluntary organisations. Over a dozen such organisations benefited from his experience, usually to the extent of a term as  chairman  or  president. His  ability was recognised far beyond South Australia. He served as  chairman  of the Australian Housing Corporation and was highly respected by senior staff of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. Indeed, he was involved in the Commonwealth-State meetings which drafted the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to which this Bill gives effect. 
Many of the principles which Alex Ramsay espoused are, as a result of the significant role he played in those negotiations, enshrined in this legislation. It is therefore, -in a sense, fitting that this legislation is being debated on a day when many people have gathered in Adelaide to pay tribute to the lifelong contribution of Alex Ramsay to others. I am pleased that the debate on this Bill, which bears his imprimatur, affords me the opportunity to pay tribute to him and to offer my condolences to his wife and family. 
Turning to the legislation before the House, unfortunately I find it "difficult to be so kind in my remarks about the comments of the honourable member for Reid and shadow Minister for Urban and Regional Affairs  (Mr Uren)  on this legislation. The contribution that was made to the debate by the honourable member, who was a Minister for Housing in the Labor Government, was appalling in its lack of substance and lack of logic. 
-I will ignore those rather rude interjections. If the honourable member had been listening he would have been aware that for the last five minutes I have been paying tribute to one of the greatest men involved in public housing in Australia. I would have thought he would have paid due credit to that fact. 
If the honourable member will wait a few moments, he will hear it. My comments apply also to the amendments which the honourable member for Reid has moved. He would seem to be merely making criticism for criticism's sake.  His  suggestions in no way improve the provision of housing for those in need. They simply substitute heavy-handed centralist dictatorship from Canberra for the co-operative relationship with the States which has been developed as part of the Fraser Government 's New 
Federalism. I had certainly hoped for better from one who is the shadow Minister. 
The honourable member said that this legislation would in no way reduce the backlog of families waiting for Housing Commission homes, that under this agreement we would build fewer houses than we built in 1977. That remains to be seen. What needs to be recognised in the provision of public sector housing is that in recent years costs have increased massively. To take account of that the Government has initiated an inquiry into the costs of housing. That inquiry will bring down recommendations designed to ensure that the maximum number of houses will be built with available funds. Perhaps the honourable member for Reid could also help out in this regard with his union colleagues. There is no doubt that militant unionism has been one of the contributing factors to the tremendous increase in housing costs- to the extent that now builders' labourers are paid higher wages than are many skilled tradesmen, especially among metal workers. 
The honourable member for Reid also claimed that the new housing agreement would increase interest rates at a time when the Fraser Government was boasting that it intended to reduce interest rates. What he needs to acknowledge is that since the 1973-74 agreement the long-term bond rate, as a result of the economic mismanagement of the Whitiam Government, has increased substantially. If we look at the relationship between the interest rates that were being charged under the old agreement and those to be charged under this agreement, it will be seen that it will give a far better deal to the States as regards interest rates. Under the old agreement, the long-term bond rate was about 6.5 per cent. Interest rates were 4 per cent for rental finance and  4i  per cent for home purchase. Thus, the difference between the longterm bond rate and the interest rate charged was 2 per cent or  2i  per cent. Under the new agreement, the long-term bond rate is 9.2 per cent and, with the interest rate of 5.2 per cent that is to be charged, the gap will be 4.7 per cent. That is, the gap between the interest rate being charged by the Commonwealth to the States and the long-term bond rate is more than double that which operated during the period when the scheme initiated by the Labor Government was in operation. Therefore, it is absolute nonsense for the honourable member for Reid to suggest that we are increasing interest rates in that sense. 
Yes, but honourable members have to bear in mind the comparison between the interest rate being charged and the long-term bond rate. That is the figure that one must look at. The honourable member for Reid also opposes the concept in this Bill of increasing rentals to a market-related level. He claimed that this would create a great deal of hardship within our community, and moved an amendment which would result in the Commonwealth Government meeting, to a minimum uniform level, the cost of rental rebates. 
The honourable member for Reid should be reminded that, in the initial negotiations on the agreement, this kind of proposition was offered to the States. At that time the States rejected it in favour of the continuation of concessional interest rates. They chose to retain those rates instead of receiving a subsidy for market-related rents. However, negotiations are continuing and it is quite possible that if agreement is reached with the States a subsidy to a certain level will be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
The honourable member for Reid also claimed that the movement towards marketrelated rents would substantially increase the total expenditure on rebates. It may well do so, but that does not mean that it will increase the net cost of subsidising the housing of occupants of public sector housing. The combined effect of the concessional interest rates and marketrelated rents charged to those on incomes sufficient to be able to afford them will mean that the overall cost to the State Government of providing such housing will be less. Even if the amount provided by way of subsidy may be more, they will recoup more because of the charging of market-related rents. Also, of course, costs will not be so great because the concessional interest rates will be retained. 
The honourable member also suggested that the rents charged for Housing Commission dwellings should be set by the Commonwealth at 85 per cent of the rental rate on the open market for those with incomes of up to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. He justified this by saying that the concept of market rent had an artificial meaning; that, in fact, the level of market rents had been increased because of the limited amount of rental housing that was available in the private sector; that this had pushed up rents; and that the Commonwealth was at fault for not providing sufficient housing finance. Once again, this is criticism merely for the sake of criticism. It offers nothing constructive in that regard at all. Clearly, the aim of the proposed 1978 Housing Agreement is to provide adequate rental housing for those members of the community who are deemed to be in need of government assistance, at a price that will be within their capacity to pay. 
The basis of the rental part of this agreement is the operation of the rental rebate system in association with market-related rents. Rental rebates are designed so that the rent paid is related to the income of the tenant and to other family circumstances. The concessional interest rate of 5 per cent on funds advanced to the State is the means by which they are able to alford to grant rebates. The subsidies inherent in this concessional interest rate, however, are not intended to subsidise the rents of those who are no longer in need, those who can afford to pay market-related rents. What the honourable member for Reid is suggesting is that the Commonwealth Government should impose a means test to determine who can and who cannot afford market-related rents. Once again, he wants heavy handed Canberra control of that means test, whereas the agreement and the legislation provide the States with flexibility to determine, on the basis of thenown situation and circumstances, what that means test shall be. Of course, as we are aware, situations and circumstances vary from State to State. Therefore it is appropriate that the State governments should have the right to determine the level at which assistance in the form of a rental subsidy should be provided and the level of income of people who should be required to pay market related rents. 
Yes, I am glad to see that the Minister is in agreement. Of course, he knows, as I know, that this is a significant piece of legislation which will provide benefits to people in the low income area. 
Of course he agrees. He is only playing politics, and we all know that too. The other significant factor is that the rental policy will be one of market related rents. The States are not required to charge the rent that the market will bear. Therefore if through the factors that the honourable member for Reid suggests, the rent that the market will bear is higher than he believes will normally transpire because of some sort of artificial shortage, the State Government can take account of that in assessing what is an appropriate market related rent. So it is the market related rent that is required to be charged and not the rent that the market will bear. That is a point that bears remembrance. 
This proposal is justified, particularly on the grounds of the evidence that was presented to the Henderson poverty inquiry. The evidence showed that on the one hand some 146,000 people who lived around the poverty line were not assisted by State housing authorities while on the other hand some 132,000 people who were well above the poverty line lived in public housing and gained concessional benefits in terms of rent. Under the State rental policies that had applied, substantial inequities had developed between differing groups of tenants. Tenants no longer in need paid rents well below private market rates and recent public tenants in some States paid substantially higher rents than longer term tenants. That is why this change to market related rents has been initiated. 
The policy will be progressively implemented, and the hardship that the honourable member for Reid suggested will occur will not occur because of this progressive implementation. It is also worth noting that the States have already moved towards this situation. The New South Wales Government was the first State government to implement the policy from 1 July 1 977. 
Clearly, the States have resented the Commonwealth dictating an inflexible means test. This is what would again transpire if the second paragraph of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid were accepted. The individual States are better able to judge their priorities and relate to this particular circumstances and regional needs within the general framework of the Commonwealth guidelines provided in this legislation. In fact, the assistance which will be provided in the form of rebates on the basis of the charging of market rents will mean that many lower income families will pay substantially less than 85 per cent of the market rate which was suggested as being appropriate by the honourable member for Reid.  His  amendment would introduce an element of inflexibility which the States would not be prepared to accept. 
The honourable member for Reid then referred to the charging of interest rates by the Commonwealth Government, which is required of the State authorities, for on-lending for home purchases. Interest paid on money lent to purchasers for the purchase of welfare housing will increase by half of one per cent a year until it reaches one per cent below the long term bond rate. The honourable member for Reid claimed that this rate of increase in the interest rate is too steep. He also claimed that it will mean a weekly repayment increase of some 5 per cent each year. Apparently his mathematics have changed. Last September he released a Press story in which he claimed that weekly repayments would increase by 10 per cent per annum. I wonder which of his calculations are correct. He also said that this may well be possible with the current rate of inflation but that people would have severe difficulties in meeting these repayments if inflation were to fall to a level of 3 per cent or 4 per cent. He therefore suggested in another paragraph of his amendment that interest rate increases should be geared to capacity to pay. Of course, the first thing he needs to remember is that if the rate of inflation falls to 3 per cent or 4 per cent, as it most definitely will under the policies of this government, the long term bond rate will also come down. Therefore the half of one per cent increase a year will reach a ceiling within one or two years. So the increases in weekly repayments which the honourable member claims will have to be made will not occur when inflation falls to 3 per cent or 4 per cent because the long term bond rate will follow down that rate of inflation. The other factor is that when inflation falls to that level the cost of living will also fall. Therefore the real household disposable income of families will increase and that will also reduce their hardship situation. 
The new policy in which there is no restriction on the number of houses allowed to be sold, provided they are sold for cash at market value or replacement cost, will mean fair treatment for all because concessional home loans will be available to tenants on the escalating interest rate principle on the same terms as those wishing to buy private houses. The policy also means that housing authorities will be able to replace dwellings that are sold so that a run-down in rental stock does not occur. Under the previous Agreement the States had sold off assets and therefore created a continued demand for Commonwealth funds. Of more than 300,000 dwellings constructed under previous agreements, only 170,000 were left for rental to needy families. The new policy, by ensuring that public housing is sold at market cost for cash, will ensure that there is a continuing fund available to ensure a continuing stock of rental housing for the poor while still maintaining our objective of encouraging home ownership. 
To meet this new demand the Agreement allows for flexible lending practices to individuals so that those on lower incomes will have a variety of means of meeting their repayments. Despite the fact that interest rates will increase by half of one per cent a year there are a variety of flexible repayment schemes possible under the new legislation to assist those on low incomes. These variable schemes will provide far greater benefit than would a fixed rate of interest for low income earners. 
The legislation provides the opportunity to maximise both home ownership and home rental opportunities for those on low incomes. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid would in no way enhance those opportunities. As I have said, it is mere criticism for the sake of criticism and mere political point scoring. I oppose the amendment and support the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
What sums were paid under the (a) SYETP, (b) CRAFT, (c) NEAT and (d) CYSS schemes in the Electoral Division of Kingston during (i) the year 1976-77 and (ii) the period I July 1977 to date. 
How many persons in the electoral division of Kingston benefited from each of these schemes during (i) the year 1976-77 and (ii) the period I July 1977 to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
What response is the Commonwealth Government making to representations from Australia's scientific community regarding the urgent need for adequate marine research vessels to increase our relatively meagre knowledge of the seas in which Australia has an interest? 
What definite plans are in hand to provide vessels of this type for Australian marine scientist? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) What action has the Government taken on the reports of the National Energy Advisory Committee. 
When will the Government be able to present a detailed and integrated policy on Australia's energy situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) How many persons have been employed by the Department of Social Security in each quarter in each State in (a) the pensions section, (b) the family allowances section and (c) the unemployment and sickness benefit section since I January 1975. 
How many applications for benefits have been processed by the Department of Social Security in each quarter in each State in (a) the pensions section, (b) the family allowances section and (c) the unemployment and sickness benefit section since 1 January 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
What is the estimated additional cost to the Commonwealth of abolishing the income test on age pensions for persons aged (a) 69 years, (b) 68 and 69 years, (c) 67 to 69 years, (d) 66 to 69 years, and (e) 65 to 69years. 
-Contrary to remarks we have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill is a further confirmation of the Fraser Government's positive action to ensure strong economic growth in Australia in the long term. It is also pursuing policies in the shorter term which have been necessary to overcome the distortions in our economy as a result of the insanity which prevailed in the Whitlam Labor Government era. To restore long term prosperity to Australia we must expand our trading opportunities and exports. Therefore the Government is to be commended for many of its initiatives in this regard, particularly those initiatives that have been taken in recent months. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has vigorously pursued Australia's trading interests in Japan, the United States of America and Europe. The achievement of a significant increase in our beef exports to the United States reflects one aspect of the Prime Minister's success in this area. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has also directed considerable attention to successfully promoting Australia's trading prospects. The Minister at the table- the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)-  has been pursuing our interests in the very difficult forum of the European Economic Community. Also the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has been a strong advocate of our interests, particularly in Asian countries. So the Government is fulfilling its responsibilities to expand Australian trading opportunities both in the formulation of policy and with the direct personal involvement of senior Ministers. 
Particularly as a result of the wage-cost explosion that was encouraged by the Whitlam Labor Government, import replacement as a stimulus to growth in manufacturing industry is over. A forward looking innovative approach is required by management and manufacturing industry to direct its growth to areas where export markets can be developed. It is simply not good enough for management to sit back and rely on tariff protection to ensure guaranteed markets in Australia. Indeed, to do so is directly contrary to the principles of free enterprise. Management should welcome competition and grasp the opportunity to compete in international markets. Shorter term tariff protection may be justified to allow for readjustment to export oriented production. However, in the longer term excessive protection proves to be an unbearable millstone around the neck of existing export oriented industries, both primary and secondary, and inhibits innovative growth of new export oriented industries. On that basis, far from maintaining employment, excessive tariffs in fact add to unemployment. 
The important economic developments that have occurred in Asia over the last decade or so have largely been overlooked by Australian manufacturing industry. I emphasised in my speech in the Address-in-Reply debate earlier this year that it is time that we focused more closely on Asia, not only because in the negative sense Asian manufacturers are placing increasing pressure on a growing range of Australian manufacturers but also because Asia offers a vast range of challenging opportunities for Australian manufacturers. Australia has the manufacturing capacity and the innovative ability to delve quite deeply into this region. As new industries are developed within the region, Australia will be able to compete for the supply of capital goods, essential raw material inputs, specialised manufacturers and consultancy services. In this respect I am conscious that a wide range of Australian industries have already exploited export opportunities within this region. In the manufacturing sector, food, beverages and tobacco, non-metallic mineral products, fabricated metal products and transport equipment industries have experienced large increases in the share of their exports going to the developing Asian market economies while the rural and mining sectors have experienced smaller increases. 
The specialisation by Asian countries in particular products associated with their general economic development will continue to create substantial export opportunities for Australian industry. The extent to which Australia will be able to take advantage of the benefits of increased trade with Asia will depend on the extent to which Australian industry adopts a course that complements rather than competes with the output of developing Asian market economies. It will require Australian concentration on rural based products, processed rural and mining products, consumption oriented manufactures and the outputs of the service industries. 
An important element in the success of Australian exporters will be the adaptive skills of Australian manufacturers. It is my belief that adapting products to local requirements is an area of comparative advantage Australia has and can develop much further. Our strength lies in the depth of manufacturing industry's innovative skills built up over the years to service Australian needs. Well known examples of this would be Australia's success in dry land farming techniques and the bulk handling and processing of agricultural and mineral commodities. There is no reason why the horizons of Australian manufacturing industry should be limited in any way in this regard. A prime example of the success which Australian industry can achieve with an outward looking attitude is the success of the world renowned lens manufacturing firm Sola International Pty Ltd located at Lonsdale in the Kingston electorate. I have referred to this firm's initiative and success on previous occasions. 
I would love to tell the honourable member for Lilley again of their success. The technical expertise with which they developed the CR39 plastic lens has led to the establishment of a substantial export market and has allowed lower input costs of production. As a result there has been a further growth in exports. Last year substantial extensions were made to the factory of the Sola organisation at Lonsdale and also additional employees were recruited, thereby providing additional employment in that area. So the benefit from export oriented manufacturing is obvious. 
The Government is aware of the need for Australia's manufacturing sector to become more export oriented. The White Paper on manufacturing industry clearly indicates that the Government wishes to develop a stronger and more specialised manufacturing sector. Towards this end the White 
Paper argued that it was desirable to give encouragement to new investment in manufacturing that will be efficient, internationally competitive and export oriented, particulary where it is based on Australian talents, skills or resources and where the degree of processing or transportation is the maximum consistent with international competitiveness. 
The Austraiian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill emphasises the Government's strategy to expand trade and economic relations with other countries. It fulfils yet another promise made by the Fraser Government during the 1977 election campaign. The Bill proposes to establish a statutory corporation to provide the Australian private sector with information and assistance to negotiate with overseas governments or organisations to carry out overseas development projects. The legislation follows consultation with the private sector and has the private sector's full support. 
There has been massive expansion of investment in large scale development projects in developing countries during the present decade. These projects have made a significant and growing contribution to world trade. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will meet a pressing need for government support for Australian exporters in this field. The legislation is an excellent example of effective co-operation between the private sector and government. The Corporation will provide real benefits to Australian firms seeking to enter large overseas development projects and hence to the Australian economy. The legislation reflects the Fraser Government's outward-looking approach which seeks new export markets and new links with the economies of other countries. I think that even the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  ought to be interested in this piece of legislation. 
I am pleased to see that he is waking up now to listen. This approach is reflected in other measures which recently have been introduced to assist in the development of export markets. A new export incentive scheme has been established. There has been expanded promotional activity by the Department of Trade and Resources to support exporting companies combined with an export consciousness program. The Overseas Trade Commissioner Service is being strengthened. The facilities of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation are being expanded by legislation to provide export finance at concessional interest and underwrite performance guarantees. The present Government has also negotiated a new international sugar agreement and has established the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. This positive approach by the Fraser Government is in marked contrast to that of the Austraiian Labor Party as has been represented by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, not only in the debate this evening but also in other statements in recent times. The Deputy Leader has pretensions to be the Deputy Prime Minister one day and maybe even the Prime Minister. One would therefore expect a far more thoughtful contribution on matters of trade, particularly in tonight's debate. However, his contributions are in no way serving Australia's interests. Instead, his comments on Government policies and initiatives in this area have ranged from the petty through the inaccurate to the ridiculous. His substantial criticism of Government policy and performance are extremely difficult to substantiate. He has recently criticised the determination of the Fraser Government to gain access to European Economic Community markets. He has claimed that Australia has no hope of increasing exports of steel and agricultural products to the European Economic Community. This negative attitude from the Opposition is not good enough. 
The Government will not close its eyes to the domestic market of the world's largest trading block; it will not close its eyes to the European Economic Community's selling practices on third markets. The Government will continue to challenge the principle of closed markets and special trading rules for agricultural products. The Labor Party ignores all this to Australia's detriment. The Opposition's criticism of the Government's policies and performance completely lacks validity. Noticeably, the Labor Party has no coherent alternative policy to present to the Parliament or to the Australian community. We are given no idea of how the supposed alternative Government would handle the present situation. The Labor Party merely offers a counsel of despair- the doom and gloom of which the Leader of the Opposition is so fond and for which he has become so renowned. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition regurgitates proposals from the disastrous years when Labor was in office. He has claimed that the Fraser Government is not making sufficient effort to develop markets in fields other than Europe. He completely ignores the Government's comprehensive approach and policy. 
As I demonstrated earlier, the Government's attention has been directed not only to the European Economic Community but also to markets in the United States, Japan, the Middle East and South East Asia. A few moments ago I outlined also a range of policies designed to assist exporters to develop other new markets. The 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition has proposed a framework agreement between Australia and the European Economic Community. The Government remains open to such an agreement if its benefits are demonstrable, but the Fraser Government wants substance and not mere formality in this regard. A framework agreement currently exists between Canada and the European Economic Community but no one in either of those countries can point to any positive results from that agreement. It would seem the Labor Party has more interest in show pieces and organisational gimmicks than actual sales. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition in remarks he has made in recent months has also trotted out the Labor Party's hoary old socialist proposal for the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. Of course, this legislation was rejected by the Senate when Labor was in office and the amendments proposed by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition tonight once again reaffirm Labor's commitment to that structure. The proposed amendments in fact would have the effect of converting the Australia Overseas Projects Corporation very largely to a body similar to the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. The private sector, very correctly, was aghast at the proposals to establish the Overseas Trading Corporation when it was introduced during the era of the Labor Government. Far from assisting Austraiian enterprise to expand trade, the Corporation could have directly competed with private business trading in goods. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation which is established by this Bill provides for any benefits that were claimed for the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation and more, while not threatening the private sector in the way that that proposed body would have done. The Overseas Projects Corporation can act only on requests from private organisations. It is also a provider of assistance and cannot directly engage in general trading. Once again, this obviates it as a threat to the private sector. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party are acting contrary to Australia's national interest through the negative attitude which they have adopted. I discovered during recent discussions in a number of countries that Australia has lost a significant proportion of its export markets as a direct result of the disruptive activities of our waterfront and maritime unions. The activities of these unions have caused Australia to be an unreliable supplier of goods, particularly with regard to meeting delivery deadlines; so other suppliers have been obtained. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition would better serve Australia's national interest if he used what ought to be his undoubted influence in the labour movement to stop these militants destroying Australia's prosperity. The capacity for Australia to develop and expand its export markets on the basis of the assistance that is being provided by the Government directly depends on a responsible attitude being adopted by our waterfront and maritime unions. If delivery dates are not met as a result of militant activity by those unions our customer countries will turn to other suppliers as they have done already as a result of the activities of those unions. In direct contrast with the attitude of the Labor Party, the Fraser Government has the runs on the board with a series of significant measures to assist business to establish exports markets. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, as a valued member of the parliamentary cricket team, ought to know what the term 'runs on the board' means. It means that the performance is there to be seen. The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation is a worthy addition to these initiatives. The Australian Labor Party, through the remarks of its Deputy Leader tonight, has offered no viable alternative. It is now up to private businesses to use the assistance provided and get on with the job of developing export opportunities to their individual benefit and to the benefit of the whole Australian economy and hence the Australian community. It is for that reason that I strongly support the passage of this Bill and will oppose the amendments which the Opposition proposes to move during the Committee stage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Les  Johnson) adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Are allegedly spontaneous public demonstrations against the Budget which, for example, in South Australia have resulted in damage to the offices of several members of this House, causing the Government to have any second thoughts about its Budget strategy? 
-During the winter recess of this Parliament, I took a private overseas study tour, concerned mainly with the motor vehicle manufacturing industry and youth affairs. Part of the time during that trip was spent in South Africa, many points of whose motor industry bear comparison with the motor industry of Australia. However, while in South Africa I also had the opportunity to examine at first hand the general situation in that country, and in particular its ethnic problems. It is to these aspects that I will refer tonight in the context of the debate on the expenditure estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
While in South Africa, I took the opportunity to travel widely, visiting most major urban centres, some rural areas and the so-called homelands areas. Through this I had the opportunity to talk with a broad cross-section of the community- white, coloured, Indian and black ethnic groups, ranging from strong supporters of the present Nationalist Party Government and its policies to its equally strong opponents. These included Government and Opposition white members of parliament, people such as Sonny Leon, the leader of the Coloured Peoples' Labor Party in the Coloured Representative Council,  Mr Reddy  and other members of the executive of the South African Indian Council, urban and homeland black leaders, Government bureaucrats, business men and people such as  Dr Beyers  Naude, the former moderator of the Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa, who is now under a banning order for his opposition to apartheid. In this way I had the opportunity to gauge a broad cross-section of opinion, as well as make direct observations about the current situation in South Africa, and also possible future developments. 
I would particularly like to commend our Australian Ambassador to South Africa and his senior staff at our missions in Pretoria, Capetown and Johannesburg for their assistance to me with regard to the investigations which I undertook. I would also like to commend them for the work that they are doing in South Africa to maintain a liaison with the various ethnic groups in that country in order to provide adequate information to our Government on which it can base appropriate policies. 
Also I received welcome co-operation from the South African Government. There was certainly no attempt by it to prevent me from contacting people who were unsympathetic to its present policies. 
All my investigations revealed a significant dichotomy in the South African situation. On the one hand, non-whites are making significant progress in the economic sphere and many whites are changing their attitudes to blacks in both the working and the social environments. On the other hand, the present Government refuses to extend the opportunity for any real participation by non-whites in government decision-making and the nation's formal political processes. The transition in the economic and social spheres has occurred partly through nonwhites' own initiatives, partly through the initiatives of private enterprise businesses and partly through government economic and educational programs. For example, job reservation for whites has virtually disappeared and will soon be abolished completely. More and more nonwhites are receiving training for and are moving into managerial positions in the private sector. Certainly, non-whites are becoming better educated and more affluent, and hence better equipped to take part in everyday life of the South African community. Particularly among young whites, attitudes of prejudice and discrimination against non-whites are less evident than among older people. Perhaps that is an omen for a better future. 
Certainly, it is possible to argue about the rate of change in the economic and social spheres and whether or not the attitudes of non-whites in these spheres are being developed with sufficient rapidity. The rate of change is difficult to gauge during one limited visit to that country, but one could well argue that the broadening of opportunities should be occurring more rapidly. One of the main factors which is contributing to the broadening economic opportunities for nonwhites has been rapid economic growth in South Africa in recent times. Those who advocate trade boycotts and disinvestment in South Africa are, in fact, advocating a halt to economic progress for non-whites. This economic progress has been a major catalyst for change in South Africa and this can continue, but it will not continue if sources of trade and investment are cut off. 
This aspect is of double importance to Australia in that during the period of a high level of trade between the two countries the balance was strongly in Australia's favour. In particular, trade with South Africa was of great benefit to Australia 's motor vehicle and component manufacturing industries. As the honourable member for Kingston, I have some interest in the motor industry. It needs every export avenue which it is possible to obtain. In recent years some $35m a year worth of business has been lost to the motor vehicle industry in exports largely as a result of wharf stoppages preventing goods from being shipped to South Africa on a regular basis. The decline in total trade between South Africa and Australia has seen our favourable balance decline markedly in favour of South Africa. Hence for the altruistic motive of providing further opportunities for non-white advancement and perhaps for a more selfish motive of economic benefit to Australia, I believe we should be stepping up our trade activity with that country. 
The significant change in attitude which I mentioned earlier and the broadening of economic opportunities make the end of apartheid inevitable. One thing which history clearly shows is that as people become better educated, more affluent and more able to participate in the economic life of the community, they will inevitably demand the right to participate in its political life. But the present South African Government stubbornly refuses to recognise this fact. Despite acknowledgment by the bulk of people to whom I spoke while visiting South Africa that apartheid is doomed and full political rights have to be given to non-whites, the Government itself steadfastly pursues its policy of apartheid. Although petty apartheid is progressively breaking down, this occurs only after considerable internal pressure on the Government and rarely as a Government initiative. If peace and prosperity are to be maintained for all South Africans it is essential that the present Government change its attitude and be seen to initiate progress towards full and equal participation in the political process by all ethnic groups within South Africa. 
Currently the Government proposes a concept of three separate parliaments for whites, coloureds and Indians, but both the coloureds and the Indians in that country have made it very clear that that proposal is not an acceptable alternative to the present situation or an acceptable alternative to full and direct participation. Similarly, the Government's propagation of the homeland concept, although accepted by some black leaders who are resident in the homelands, has been rejected by other homeland leaders and is particularly rejected by blacks living in urban areas. So, equally, that is not an acceptable alternative to the development of full political participation. Unless an acceptable formula is initiated the danger is that non-whites will become increasingly politically radicalised and will seek alternative solutions which would be to the detriment of all South Africans. As more advancement is achieved in the economic and social spheres, the existing political structure is causing more and more resentment among nonwhites. This is particularly evident among younger non-whites, who are less prepared to accept the status quo than are the old generation. 
It is to be hoped that the recent change in leadership of the South African Government will provide some opportunity for a change in its policies. The movement towards total participation must be transitional. Certainly, an overnight institution of what is termed black majority rule could cause problems as great as a perpetual continuation of the present system. The transition should be gradual to accommodate the developing experience of non-whites in political participation, but it must be seen to be actively occurring and effectively bearing fruit for nonwhites. The end of apartheid is inevitable. It is to be hoped that it will be ended on the initiative of the present South African Government rather than by what might be a violent initiative of those currently denied full rights of citizenship. 
I believe that one way in which Australia could assist this peaceful transition would be through the provision of educational scholarships for South Africans, both white and non-white, which would encourage co-operation among the various ethnic groups resident in South Africa and thereby cause a further moderation of their attitudes. When those students who had been educated in Australia returned to South Africa with the benefit of education in an Australian environment, they would be able to contribute more effectively to a peaceful resolution of that country's problems. I would particularly urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to consider that suggestion. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  claimed that I was not, to use his term, au fait with what was going to happen in Cabinet next Monday with regard to the motor industry. 
It is definitely a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In fact I am very much, once again to use the term of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, au fait with what the Government is currently discussing with regard to the motor industry. 
I have been very active in my representations on behalf of Chrysler Australia Ltd concerning its capacity to meet the 85 per cent content requirement - 
I have been misrepresented in that I have been actively promoting the interests of Chrysler. The honourable member for Port Adelaide - 

 Mr HODGMAN (Denison)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-On several occasions in this Parliament I have emphasised the significance of trade to Australia and to the economic well-being of all Australians. It is appropriate to do so again in debating the estimates for the Department of Trade and Resources, the Department of the Special Trade Representative and the Department of National Development because these particular departments are, of course, most associated with trade. Australia is very much a trading nation. In particular, income from exports is a major contributor to the nation's real wealth. The future prosperity of all Australians is dependent on maintaining and improving the economic viability of export earners. Our enhanced prosperity is dependent on tapping new markets for export producers. It is dependent also upon ensuring that productive resources are directed towards areas where economic growth can be based on the development of export markets. As I have said on earlier occasions, in Australia the era of economic growth based on high levels of migration and the development of manufacturing industry through import replacement is over. Future growth in all sectors of the economyprimary, secondary and tertiary- will be dependent on the expansion of export markets and, hence, on restoring our cost competitiveness against overseas producers. 
The 1978 Fraser Government Budget will make a major contribution towards restoring the competitive edge of Australian producers and, hence, our capacity to trade. The Budget addresses the realities of our economic circumstances and seeks solutions to our economic problems in a responsible manner. It recognises that there are not any quick or easy solutions to Australia's economic problems. The Budget builds on the firm foundations of the economic strategy pursued by the Government over the last two years. 
The shocks to our economy caused by the previous Labor Government were extremely severe. Those shocks removed us from the economic stability of the 1950s and the 1960s. They were significantly detrimental to our capacity to trade profitably on international markets. Wages outstripped prices and, to an even greater extent, productivity during the Labor era. For example, real male wages spiralled by 17 per cent and real female wages spiralled by 24 per cent during 1974. Costs of production rocketed with consequent price increases. This destroyed our growing export market for many goods. 
One of the most serious effects was felt in the motor vehicle industry. That industry- Chrysler 
Australia in particular, in which I have an interest being the honourable member for Kingston- was developing a significant export market for motor vehicles during the period leading up to the era of the Labor Government. The cost increases in particular during the Labor period destroyed the capacity of the industry to develop that growing export market. Indeed, many of it markets were lost. This era also made it impossible for these goods to compete against imports on Australia's domestic market because their prices were no longer competitive. Hence the demand, both domestic and international, for Australian-produced goods declined. Production fell accordingly and thousands of jobs were destroyed under the combined effect of that and excessively high wages. Unemployment increased by 1 57 per cent in 1 974. 
It was a shame for those who lost their jobs during that period and those who have since lost their jobs as the result of the carry-over of the effects of that period. In three successive Budgets the Fraser Government has acted to reverse these disastrous distortions in the economy. Fiscal and monetary stability have been restored and inflation has been brought under control by stringent controls on government spending and the encouragement of wage restraint. By dampening inflationary expectations and restoring profitability faith in Australia's future is being restored. The rate of inflation as measured by the consumer price index has fallen from 13.4 per cent in the 12 months to June 1977 to 7.9 per cent in the 12 months to June 1978. Restraint of government expenditure has brought the deficit under control. This success with both inflation and the deficit has allowed a gradual reduction to occur in interest rates. All of these factors combined are providing the incentive for the establishment of new productive enterprises in spheres where Australia can develop and maintain a comparative economic advantage and hence the capacity to penetrate overseas markets. The 1978 Budget will continue to strengthen that trend. 
The Government, through a detailed analysis of expenditure, has been able to prevent any significant increase in government spending in this Budget. The 7.7 per cent money increase is virtually no increase when one accounts for the effects of inflation. However, to minimise the deficit the Government has been required to raise additional revenue. Hence in 1978-79 only we have to bear a 1.5 per cent increase in income tax. There has also been an increase in certain excise duties. But by restraining the deficit in this way we will lower the rate of inflation, which is reliably predicted to be 5 per cent and falling by the end of the current financial year, and also lower interest rates. This will place Australia in a better position than its major trading partners and so provide further scope for the expansion of trading activity. Achieving a rate of inflation below that of our major trading partners is an important pre-condition to enlarging Australia's success as a trading nation. There are other consequences of the Budget which will also enhance Australia's trading prospects. Gross nonfarm product is projected to grow by about 4 per cent during the current financial year with farm product doing even better than that. 
The validity of the Budget should be measured not only against its potential to achieve its goals but also against the capacity of the alternatives which are offered. One extremely disappointing aspect of the recent economic debate is the Labor Opposition's persistent failure to grasp the reality of Australia's economic situation. 
I welcome the agreement of the honourable member for Barker with that statement. This is particularly emphasised by the so-called alternative Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Apart from the inaccurate figuring which makes its overall impact far more uncertain than the Leader of the Opposition would have us believe, his alternative Budget would produce a deficit in excess of $4,500m. 
-As the honourable member for La Trobe says, there would there be a massive deficit of $4,500m unless the Leader of the Opposition's taxation proposals were made retrospective to the date of the last Federal election. We certainly were not told of any of those proposals at that time.. So there is a certain sleight of hand in the figures that have been presented by the Leader of the Opposition in his alternative Budget. Without allowing for the retrospective introduction of those measures they would result in a deficit of $4,500m. Labor's alternative would fuel inflation, reduce business and consumer confidence, restore high interest rates and cause a net capital outflow from Australia. The alternative Budget introduced by the Labor leader would therefore involve a balance of payments crisis, a severe cut in corporate investment and profitability, a 180-degree turn in monetary policy and a significantly faster wage growth. In short, in general this would stifle growth prospects, set back recovery and therefore seriously harm all Australians. In particular, the alternative provided by Labor would destroy the nation's capacity to trade profitably by preventing our cost structure from becoming competitive against the cost structures of our trading partners. 
The alternative which has been offered by the Labor Party during this Budget debate, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition, would prove disastrous, especially in the area of providing the opportunity for Australia to expand its trading prospects. In contrast, the Fraser Government's Budget for 1978-79 continues the task of putting right Australia 's economic fundamentals. The Australian people clearly recognise that. That is why, despite the rabble-rousing attempts of the Labor Party to whip up mass opposition to the Budget, the common sense of the Australian people has prevailed. They have accepted the Budget. Notwithstanding the attempt in South Australia of the South Australian Premier to whip up opposition, no South Australian government member has received any significant opposition to the Budget. The Australian people have accepted the Budget as a necessary step on the road to economic recovery and prosperity. The expansion of our trading opportunities will play a major role in the journey down that road. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (9.38)-The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  seems to blame everything on increased wages. I do not know who received these increased wages. They may have been received also by members of parliament or Pitt Street farmers, but the workers whom I represent received only what they were entitled to receive. They deserved and needed every bit of it. Trade and resources are inter-related matters that affect the living standards of every Australian. Coming from a mining town, I want to say something in support of the development of our mineral resources. It must be remembered that our mineral resources, as well as being inter-related with other national resources, are inter-related with international resources. Because of this some of our mineral deposits cannot be mined as, in some cases, Australia does not have the technological know-how to treat the ore and in other cases it does not have a guaranteed continuing overseas market for the ore once it is treated and mined. 
For that reason, I was pleased to read the speech given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to the Western Austraiian Mining Club on 30 March 1978 when he made the statement that the mining industry has made a significant contribution during the last decade or so to the welfare of Australia. The Leader of the Opposition could have gone back much further than that. He could have gone back to 1883 to the start of the Broken Hill mines. The Broken Hill mines have made a very significant contribution to the welfare of Australia since that time. I wholly endorse the Leader of the Opposition's final remarks. He said: 
Finally, I repeat, the development of the mining industry has greatly benefited the Australian community. Despite the many pressures today I feel sure that the industry will make an important contribution in the future. 
I also believe that it will. But I think that we should take particular notice of the Leader of the Opposition's next sentence. He said: 
But to do that we must make sure conditions are right to encourage development. 
I think that that is the important thing in the development of our mineral resources. I support these remarks because I believe that nothing holds greater promise for the nation 's future welfare than the development of our mineral resources. I am not dealing with uranium resources; I am talking about the development of other resources. Although I do not say that the development of uranium will not help, I am concentrating particularly on other mineral resources.! think that we have a responsibility to see that the average Australian is properly informed of all the facts and circumstances connected with the development, mining and export of our mineral resources. A false impression has been gained by the average Australian through Press reports of huge profits made by mining companies such as the Utah Development Company and the huge amount of finance that it repatriates out of Australia. We all know that that is true but unfortunately we hear very little of the hundreds of millions of dollars that have been paid in State and Federal taxes by mining companies such as the Broken Hill companies. 
In the 1 2 years to 30 June 1 974 the Broken Hill mining companies paid $260, 539m in income tax, State royalties, local government rates and workers' payroll tax. That is a yearly average of $21,71 lm. No one could say that that was not a fair effort for the number of employees in Broken Hill. Bad publicity is also given to the fact that in the early part of a mine's development a mining company has a deferred tax allowance. It seems to me that it is never pointed out that without this provision Australian mining companies would not be able to obtain the finance to develop their mines. It must be remembered that it takes five or six years to develop a mine. In order to attract finance mining companies must have some kind of a deferred tax allowance. 
What is not generally remembered is that deferred tax is not tax avoided. The companies eventually pay it. I believe that we should continue to provide for tax deferment in our new mining ventures. Without it mining companies could not meet the repayment requirements of the major lenders. I think it is important that these lenders invest in our mineral resources; but at the same time I believe that the Australian Government should be giving Australians more encouragement and more assistance to invest in their own mineral resources. That is not always done. I remember one occasion on which a Broken Hill mining company made shares available to its employees at a price below their market value to encourage them to invest in their mine. Two years later the Taxation Office caught up with them. Because they had paid less than the market value of the shares they had to pay tax on them. 
We often hear that 62 per cent of our mineral resources is foreign owned. I am informed that the correct figure is near 40 per cent. Whether the amount is somewhere between these two figures it compares more than favourably with the motor industry which is 88 per cent foreign owned and the pharmaceutical industry which is 75 per cent foreign owned. We might well ask why some Australians go out of their way to knock our mining industries and at the same time are prepared to pay many hundreds of dollars to support the automobile industry which is also foreign owned. This does not make sense to me. It must be remembered that 3 per cent of the work force is responsible for producing one-third of Australia's export earnings. Those workers are in the mining industry. 
In one decade there has been a massive increase in exports from mining from $428m to $4,657m. In 10 years $459m was spent on environmental protection and only 30,500 hectares of land were mined. Therefore, 99.99 per cent of Australian land was untouched by mining ventures. One could hardly say that mining is a great blot on the environment although there are cases where more should have been done. The point I want to make is that if city dwellers want to maintain their standards of living, their roads and their parks they should stop knocking the mining industry. No country, no matter how well developed it is, can afford to do without this kind of income. 
Is the Treasurer aware of expressions of concern within the community about the possible introduction of a broadly based indirect tax? What is the current state of the inquiry into such a tax proposal which is being conducted by the Taxation Office? Has the Government made any decision on this issue? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-The legislation now before the House, the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill, flows from a Government decision to ask three eminent persons- Professor Arthur Birch of the Australian National University,  Sir Cecil  Looker and  Mr R.  T. Madigan-to act as a committee of inquiry to report upon the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. As a result of their inquiry, Australia has achieved perhaps the most intense investigation into a science and research organisation that has ever occurred in any country. On 1 1 May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  informed the House of the Government's decisions concerning the recommendations in the report of the independent inquiry into the CSIRO. The Bill we are now debating is designed to provide the appropriate legislative authority for the reorganisation of the CSIRO and the other elements of the Government's decisions which were announced on that date. 
The CSIRO manages to combine a high level of theoretical scientific work with a high level of practical application of the technology that arises from that scientific research. Certainly, the CSIRO has a long and distinguished history in Australia, with a fine record of achievement over SO years in many scientific fields. In his remarks earlier this evening the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  referred to a number of significant achievements which are to the credit of CSIRO. He referred particularly to the work it has done for the benefit of primary industry. 
It is worth noting that interest had been expressed in the establishment of a body similar to the CSIRO from the time of the inauguration of the first Federal Parliament in 1900. Several attempts were made over the first 25 years of Federation to establish such a body but each attempt foundered. However, following a conference that had been set up in 1925 by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Bruce,  in 1926 the Science and Industry Research Act was passed establishing the basic framework for the body which eventually became the CSIRO. Some 50 years have passed since then and throughout that period there was no extensive inquiry into the operations and the underlying principles of the CSIRO until the Birch inquiry was establishedAs I have said, it was some 50 years before the Government of the day decided that such an inquiry was necessary and that the operations and basis of the CSIRO should be put under extensive review. 
The Birch inquiry represents one of the great milestones in the development of a national science policy in Australia. The Bill we are debating this evening is a response to the Government's decision on 122 recommendations in the Birch report. It is evident from the Bill that the Government has studied each of the 122 recommendations in some detail and given a considered response to each one of them. The Bill is the result of a most comprehensive review of the Organisation's performance and of its enabling legislation and the Government's study of that review. 
The amendments which the Bill contains have three principal aims. All of these are directed towards creating an improved framework wrixon will assist the Organisation to continue to serve the nation well in the years ahead and to optimise the benefits to the Australian people that can be derived from national government financed scientific endeavour. Firstly, the Bill broadens and .modernises the functions of the Organisation and invests it with the powers necessary to execute those responsibilities. Secondly, provision is made for a revised managment structure, involving a governing body of reduced size which will be able to concentrate on policy issues, and the establishment of up to six institutes within which the organisation's scientific research and other related affairs will be conducted. Each institute will be formed by combining several of the Divisions of the CSIRO which conduct the operational activities under the existing Organisation. Each institute will be under the leadership of a distinguished scientific manager. Thirdly, the legislation establishes enhanced statutory advisory machinery to provide the governing body with high-level advice on national needs and priorities with respect to scientific research. It should be noted that the Bill maintains the Organisation as a single statutory entity which will continue to be financed in the main by annual parliamentary appropriations. 
The main role of the CSIRO is to carry out scientific and technological research for the purpose of assisting all sectors of Australian industry, furthering the interests of the Australian community, and contributing to the achievement of Austraiian national objectives and the performance of the national and international responsibilities of the Commonwealth. This research will continue to be undertaken by the Organisation almost exclusively in the fields of physical and biological sciences. Basically, the functions of the Organisation have been preserved without significant change. 
Generally, it is fair to conclude that the Bill accurately reflects the recommendations contained in the Birch report. As I mentioned, clause 6 of the Bill provides for the creation by the Executive of up to six institutes. The scientific research and related activities will be carried out in these institutes. Each institute will be headed by a senior scientist with the title of director, who will have responsible to him the heads of particular research activities which will form part of each institute. The main role of the institute directors will be research management and co-ordination. However, they will also actively participate in the decision-making processes of the Executive. The establishment of these institutes will overcome the problems created by the diversity of the divisions which previously operated. This meant lack of co-ordination in the operation of the CSIRO and fragmentation of its activities. I believe that the establishment of the institutes to coalesce the activities of the previous divisions will provide a far more effective framework for the operation of the CSIRO. 
Another important aspect of the Bill is contained in proposed Part VII in clause 7 of the Bill, which establishes enhanced advisory machinery. There will be both a new Advisory Council at the national level and new State committees in each State. Both the Advisory Council and the State Committees will perform a vital role in the operation of the CSIRO. They will ensure that it will be kept in touch with changing trends within society. The importance of interaction between science and society must never be forgotten. In accord with the commitment given in the Prime Minister's statement of 1 1 May, the Bill also provides for the establishment of a CSIRO consultative council. This council will comprise representatives of the Executive and of staff associations representing CSIRO officers. The council will examine and report to the Executive of the CSIRO on matters which generally affect or are of broad interest to the staff of the Organisation. It is important for the morale of the Organisation that working scientists feel they are getting a full say in the working of the CSIRO. In that regard, the initiative contained in the legislation is also of great significance. 
Under clause 7 of the Bill, changes are also made to the annual report procedures. The Organisation's future reports will include statements by the Executive on the broad policies pursued by the Organisation with respect to the determination of research program priorities and objectives and other elements of the Organisation's functions. Of course, this is in accord with recommendation 100 of the Birch report. The Bill also repeals the official secrecy provision contained in section 3 1 of the principal Act. This is a further welcome initiative by the Government. It is in keeping with the notion of freedom of information to which this Government has given attention. Recommendation 41 of the Birch committee is as follows: 
A Planning and Evaluation Advisory Unit should be established, responsible to the Deputy Chairman, to provide advice and assessment related to economic, industrial and social factors, to assist the Executive in its development of strategies and priority allocation of resources. 
Once again, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his statement on 11 May indicated that the Government accepts this recommendation. I certainly commend the Government for that. Proper planning and evaluation of the activities of the CSIRO are important to its future operation, and the implementation of this recommendation will further complement the new annual report requirements. The proposed new section 34 brings us to the important question of the general responsibilities of the CSIRO. The Advisory Council is required to furnish advice to the Executive in connection with a number of matters. Recommendation 32 of the Birch report suggests that the following should be given prime consideration: 
broad questions of policy (scientific, technological, industrial, economic, social) required to provide effective scientific and technical directions for the whole organisation,- 
I express some concern to the Minister representing the Minister for Science, the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  that in this aspect of the legislation the idea of the word 'social' has disappeared. It is of some concern to me to ensure that a body which is using a significant amount of government revenue has the capacity to make reports, recommendations and comments about the social implications of scientific research. I am not referring here to the questions of sociological or social sciences as such but rather to the fact that CSIRO should have the authority to give attention to the social implications of its scientific research. Until it is clear that the CSIRO retains a capacity to make public comment and engender public discussion about the social consequences of its scientific research and the responsibilities that will arise as a result of whatever other matter it happens to be undertaking in the research sphere, I believe that this legislation contains that defect. I hope that the Government will give attention to this matter and give an assurance that further consideration will be given to the social consequences of scientific research undertaken by the CSIRO. 
One particularly important aspect of the Birch report highlights the need for strengthening the links between the CSIRO and manufacturing industry. In the report it is made very clear that there is considerable evidence, of a substantial gap between CSIRO and manufacturing industry. I understand that a number of submissions to the Birch inquiry urged that action be taken to close this gap. Basically, the problem arises from within manufacturing industry itself. Certainly, alterations to CSIRO alone will not solve that problem. For the Government to attack the problem effectively, complementary policies for action outside the area of CSIRO will be necessary. The present CSIRO contact with manufacturing industry, by and large, is with a large number of typically small firms. It would appear that a low level of research awareness exists within manufacturing firms. There is certainly a lack of awareness of what research has been carried out elsewhere and how even existing knowledge can be effectively applied. Hence, I support any moves that are directed towards strengthening the links between CSIRO and manufacturing industry. Of course, that is in accord with recommendation 66 of the Birch report, which states: 
CSIRO should consider closely the question of contracting to industry as much as possible of its own engineering and related requirements. 
The procedure for contracting out to industry will provide a catalyst for the strengthening of links between the CSIRO and manufacturing industry. That is a particularly important development. I support this concept of contracting out to the fullest extent where it is feasible. The effectiveness of the CSIRO is, to a large extent, dependent on the availability of resources. So long term financial planning is important to the success of CSIRO. Recommendation 71 of the Birch report states: 
A three-year rolling program should be established for indicative planning purposes. 
I urge the Minister to use clause 49 of the Bill to insist on this funding provision. This will allow for long term planning for research projects, which is important to the effective operation of the Organisation. 
They are a few of the comments which I believe should be made on the legislation. I hope that the Government and, indeed, the Minister will give attention to the issues that I have raised. Overall, I believe the Bill shows once again, in the truest sense, that the Fraser Government is a government of reform. It is a government which carefully evaluates existing institutions and initiates reform where necessary. The CSIRO is an Australian institution of which we should all be extremely proud. This legislation will enhance its position in the Australian community. It is for that reason that I strongly support the legislation and commend it to the House. I believe that we should now move from what have previously been piecemeal attentions to worthy institutions towards the development of a national science policy and a national approach to scientific matters, which will put these items in their proper perspective and be of general benefit to the whole of the Australian community. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) When did a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II last appear on an Australian postage stamp. 
How many stamps were available in that issue. 
For how long were they available. 
Is it proposed to have the Queen's portrait permanently available on postage stamps in the future. If not, why not. 
-The purpose of the Bill before the House- the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Amendment Bill 1978- is to amend the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Act 1978, which was enacted to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee overseas borrowings by Qantas Airways Limited to the extent of $US80m or its equivalent to finance the purchase of two new Boeing 747 series aircraft. Qantas sought the guarantee of the Treasurer for a borrowing of $US80m under the provisions of the Act. Negotiations for a proposed borrowing were not sufficiently advanced, however, for Qantas to be enabled to finalise the terms of a borrowing before taking delivery of these aircraft. Qantas had funds earmarked for other purposes but these funds were temporarily available to make the payments owing on the aircraft, in anticipation of these funds being recouped in due course from the proceeds of the $US80m loan for which a guarantee was being sought. As doubt has arisen as to whether section 4 ( 1) (a) of the Act as originally drafted provides for the giving of the guarantee in the circumstances I have just outlined, the amendment to the original Act which this Bill provides is intended to put that question beyond doubt. Qantas has very heavy financial commitments to meet before the end of 1978 and is relying on the loan proceeds. 
Qantas has contributed for a long time to Australia's national interest in terms of international aviation. Australia, as an island nation continent where alternative transport by land is impossible or by sea is not attractive or is not readily available- it is worth noting that movements of passengers by sea in 1977 was less than 2 per cent of total overseas passenger movements- has its own particular interests in the operation of international air services. While other countries continue to pursue divergent interests that are perceived as best meeting their national interests, concern will remain in Australia about the vulnerability of dependence on other states for the provision of these services. Cases have arisen where, without a countervailing Austraiian aviation presence, air service arrangements would have operated in a manner inimical to Australia's interests. Any change in this environment is unlikely for some time, despite the fact that there are many total international economic benefits to be gained from a changed environment. The distribution of benefit and cost in a changed situation would, however, probably fall unevenly between states and this would delay change. 
Successive Australian governments have ensured deliberately that Qantas Airways Ltd, is a wholly owned government company and the only Australian airline designated to operate international services, has operated within this environment as a commercial organisation. It is subject to broad Austraiian policy, which is reflected in the regulatory arrangements which would apply whether it was publicly or privately owned. As I have said, it is a feature of Australian policy that successive governments have adhered to the policy of designating a single Australian carrier only- Qantas Airways Limited- to operate those air services which are Australian entitlements under bilateral arrangements. The decision to grant this exclusive right to the company was made first when the Government purchased half the shares in the company. The Government later purchased the remainder of the shares and the company now remains wholly government-owned. 
The considerations which successive Australian governments have taken into account in maintaining the policy of single designation have been, firstly, the retention of an Australian presence in international civil aviation, particularly during the early development years; secondly, the problem of capital formation to meet the heavy investment programs required for rapid growth; thirdly, the ability of government to have a close understanding of the economic and other considerations applying to the supply of international airline services; fourthly, the ability of government to mobilise readily the national resources the airline represents in case of an emergency; fifthly, the maintenance of a clear link between ownership of the airline and the flag of registry; and, sixthly and finally, the ability to examine more readily regulatory control of capacity in bilateral situations where many other states favour single designation of an airline to exercise their traffic entitlements. 
Allegations have been made from time to time, particularly in the context of the negotiations which are currently going on for cheaper international air fares, that Australia's international civil aviation policy is designed specifically to protect Qantas from competition. That is patently untrue. Another 23 international airlines fly into Australia. Qantas Airways Ltd is only one competitor among these 23. Furthermore, last year Qantas and British Airways alone agreed to the current $850 advance purchase excursion fare to London. Other European carriers flying into Australia declined, on commercial grounds, to introduce comparable fares. I cite for example those airlines flying between Australia and Amsterdam, between Australia and Rome and between Australia and Frankfurt. Qantas is enthusiastic about the Government's proposed lower air fares to London which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  announced several weeks ago on an expected basis of some $568 return to London in the low season. He also announced an expected $450 return fare from Australia to the United States in the low season. 
Qantas obviously shares the Government's concern for the Australian travelling public through the introduction of lower fares. Therefore any allegation that the Government's policy is directed particularly towards protection of Qantas from competition is just not true. In his remarks a little while ago the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  asserted that the Minister was blaming Qantas for delays in the introduction of cheaper international air fares. This was purely an assertion by the honourable member for Shortland. He did not provide any evidence in his remarks to back up that assertion. Certainly, as far as I am aware the 
Minister has not in any way blamed Qantas for delays in the introduction of cheaper international air fares. What the honourable member for Shortland needs to recognise is that the introduction of cheaper international air fares is dependent upon obtaining the agreement of all parties, that is all airlines and all governments involved in international civil aviation into and out of Australia. Until that agreement is obtained it will not be possible for these cheaper air fares to be implemented. Certainly, the Minister has not in any way attempted to blame Qantas for the delay in introduction of those fares. As we are all aware from the Minister's recent statement, he is hopeful that a detailed announcement of cheaper air fares into and out of Australia will be possible prior to Christmas. 
The honourable member for Shortland also commented that public servants are not travelling overseas by way of Qantas. Certainly, I believe that public servants and indeed all Australians travelling overseas ought to be encouraged to travel by Australia's international airline. But it is also reasonable that overseas travellers, including public servants, should retain the right of freedom of choice as to which particular airline they wish to use when travelling overseas. 
The honourable member for Newcastle asks by way of interjection why the travelling public should retain freedom of choice. Honourable members on his side of the House, committed as they are to socialism, do not believe in freedom of choice under any circumstances. They believe in government direction in all aspects of the economy. 
As the honourable member for St George says, they are socialists. They seek to destroy freedom right across the board. We, as Liberals, and the present Government believe in freedom of choice in economic matters and other spheres of activity. As I have said, I believe that while Australians, including public servants, ought to be encouraged to use Qantas they should not be forced to do so. If they choose to use an alternative airline, they ought to have that opportunity. As I mentioned earlier, the specific purpose of the Bill before the House is to allow Qantas to borrow funds to purchase two new Boeing 747 aircraft The purchase of these aircraft will allow the phasing out of the existing Boeing 707 aircraft which have become obsolete. The 747 aircraft which will replace these 707 aircraft are of course significantly larger than the 707 aircraft and will allow significantly higher passenger loads. This is of importance in the context of the Government's commitment to introduce cheaper overseas air fares. Clearly, higher passenger loads will enhance the capacity of Qantas to provide lower air fares, because one of the important factors in being able to introduce lower air fares is an increased passenger load on any particular aircraft and, therefore, a spreading of the cost of operating that aircraft across more fare paying passengers. When that is achieved the fare paid by any individual passenger can be that much lower. Hence the introduction of larger aircraft, such as the Boeing 747, which will be allowed under this Bill will make a significant contribution to the achievement of lower air fares. 
Another important aspect involved in the purchase of such aircraft, of course, is the provision of a high quality of service. The degree to which airline services are differentiated over various dimensions characterises the quality of air service. From the viewpoint of passengers, a higher quality of air service is always preferred to a lower one. However, the strength of this preference will differ between individual passengers and between the separate dimensions of which the general quality of air service is composed. So the underlying quality of air service is important to passengers in general and influences the level of total demand for air travel and, once again, is an important factor in the capacity of Qantas to implement lower air fares. 
Of course, certain costs are attached to the provision of quality of service in general and the availability of specific quality dimensions. Some cost implications are obvious and easily identified while others are implicit and subtle. For example, on the one hand, the costs associated with general passenger services, such as meals, are easily determined. On the other hand, the costs associated with seating comfort, frequency of service, stopovers and the risk of not obtaining a seat on demand are complex in origin and not easily comprehended by passengers. Even less obvious is the added complexity that for air services, demand and the cost of supply are inextricably intertwined. I hope that with the opportunity that has been provided for Qantas through this amendment to the Act to borrow funds to purchase two new Boeing 747 aircraft, Qantas will give attention to maintaining the very high quality of service which it provides for passengers into and out of Australia. I trust that that quality of service will be provided in association with the move towards cheaper air fares for international travellers, once again into and out of 
Australia. It is on that basis that I support this Bill and urge its passage through the House. 

 Thursday, 23 November 1978 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) Which areas within the Electoral Division of Kingston lack postal deliveries and collections. 
What plans for a full postal service are being made for these areas. 
-Before dealing specifically with the Bounty (Commercial Motor Vehicles) Bill 1978 and the Industries Assistance Commission report on which it is based, I wish to direct some general remarks to the concept of protection of local industry and comment on the various forms of protection, namely, tariffs, quotas and bounties. Protection in its various forms inevitably involves government intervention to distort the free market forces in an economy. This is basically contrary to the Liberal philosophy of free enterprise which involves competition in the market place. Therefore before a Liberal government intervenes to provide protection it must have strong justification. In pure economic terms protection is difficult to justify. Excessive protection in all forms, but particularly in the form of tariffs, is obviously detrimental to economic growth and wealth creation. It insulates an economy from change which is essential to real growth. Furthermore, it insulates particular industries which need to adapt to changing international conditions, to increase their productivity and to develop and apply new technology. 
A certain element of protection may be justified on occasions on other than economic grounds, for example, social grounds. One example is that excessively large cities could and have developed through the location of industry on purely economic grounds. Society therefore suffers the attendant problems of mass societyalienation, crime, family breakdown and drug addiction. The maintenance of smaller cities through the protection of local industries to provide an employment base for a regional economy and prevent the drift to bigger centres may well be justified in such a situation. In particular, I use the city of Adelaide as such an example. The maintenance of a regional economy in South Australia through some protection may well be justified for social reasons. However, in such instances it is important to monitor the level and nature of assistance. The economic disadvantages of excessive protection would ultimately outweigh the social advantages. We must always remember that protection results in a diversion of resources away from their most productive and economic application. 
Protection is a cost which has to be borne by the community in one form or another, so the alleged benefits should always be carefully analysed. One area where the cost is not readily recognised but is probably most severe is protection through tariffs. Only last year the DirectorGeneral of the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia,  Mr W.  Henderson, agreed with the IAC argument that the consumer and exporters ultimately pay for tariff protection. He also agreed with the lAC's arithmetic that the cost of such tariff protection is about $4,300m annually. So a significant price is paid in Australia for tariff protection. Ultimately this protection is paid by the export industries. This is because the costs of production which are associated with tariff protection are passed down the Une until they can be passed no further. Of course, the buck stops with export industries which have to seU their products on world markets under free competition. They cannot set their own prices on those world markets. Hence it is finally the exporters who have to bear the full cost of tariff protection. This means in particular that Australia's rural industries bear about half the tariff cost burden. 
Tariffs are a cost which is borne by export earners. Whilst not readily identifiable, research can identify the particular costs to those export earning industries. The general disadvantage of tariffs is that their costs are borne by exporters; they shield an economy from the need to change and the need to develop in accordance with international economic developments and because they are applied to imports rather than to local producers, their application is general rather than specific. Therefore tariffs cannot provide the benefit of protecting a regional economy for social reasons, which I mentioned earlier may be a significant justification for protecting a particular industry. 
The attempt is often made to justify tariffs on the basis that they maintain employment. This is a questionable assumption. Various IAC reports show that industries with the heaviest protection have had the greatest decline in employment. Because of the cost burden which tariffs put on the inputs to economic and efficient industries they restrict the growth of such industries and their capacities to employ. Whilst jobs may be destroyed by the abolition of tariff protection in one sector, replacement jobs may well be generated in another sector which is able to expand through increased demand for its products as a result of lower prices derived from lower cost inputs after the tariff burden has been lifted from its weary back. If that is not true in terms of transferring jobs directly, it is certainly true that lifting the tariff burden will result in increased utilisation of total resources. 
In the Australian context it may well be that the most productive and efficient use of resources is in capital intensive spheres and areas of high technology industry rather than in areas of labour intensive industry. 
It may be true that the actual number of, for example, 40 hour a week job units may decline. This should not cause unemployment. Rather, because of the resulting greater productivity and greater total production, it will result in the generation of greater real wealth within the community. Hence it will allow scope for reduced working hours, job sharing, permanent part time work and other benefits for which trade unions in Australia have been striving. Ultimately the abolition or reduction of such tariff protection will allow more people to hold jobs. It could afford this opportunity without a real reduction in wages because of increased productivity and the more efficient use of resources. In contrast, the present situation in which, because of excessive protection, many resources are not directed to their most efficient use, such benefits for employees can be achieved only with a severe cut in real wages. Excessive tariffs deny the opportunity for benefits to be derived from the most efficient and productive use of total resources, both labour and capital. 
Protection by quotas has a similar impact to that of tariffs. Quotas also have the added disadvantage of allowing windfall gains to import licence holders. On the other hand, bounties although susceptible to the general dangers of excessive protection have specific advantages over tariffs and quotas. The first of these advantages is that the cost is more evenly borne throughout the community. The bounty is paid out of government revenue. It is raised from taxation and, therefore, is a charge on the whole community. In contrast, tariffs are borne by only one segment of the community, those who are producing for export. 
The second advantage of bounties is that, because they are paid out of general revenue, they are a visible means of support whereas tariffs are a hidden form of support, not easily identifiable. The third advantage is that they can be made specific and can be applied to protect and support a regional economy which, for social reasons, it has been determined is worthy of protection. Nevertheless, it should be emphasised that even protection through bounties has a cost. That cost is not eliminated. However, if protection can be justified on social grounds clearly, on the basis of justice and equity, it should be provided through a bounty rather than a tariff or a quota. 
I particularly commend the Government's courage in providing assistance to the manufacturers of heavy commercial motor vehicles in the form of a bounty through this legislation. It is worth noting that bounties are not as politically attractive as tariffs. Tariffs are borne by a relatively small proportion of the voting public. Their costs are not as politically significant as those of bounties which are borne by the whole community through taxation. 
Secondly, whereas tariffs raise revenue and provide a source of revenue for the Government, bounties are less politically popular because they provide a cost to revenue. But bounties are a more just and equitable means of providing protection. If it is deemed in Australia's national interest that such protection should be afforded to a particular industry, on the basis of justice and equity, a bounty is the appropriate mechanism for providing such assistance. On the basis of political expediency, tariffs are often more popular with governments. Therefore, the Government should be commended on this occasion for taking the courageous decision to apply a bounty rather than a tariff mechanism. 
The purpose of the Bill that we are debating is to provide assistance by way of a bounty to the assembly in Australia of general purpose motor vehicles, including buses, having a gross vehicle mass of 2.72 tonnes or more. 
I hope that the honourable member for Lalor found some value in my introductory remarks. I am glad to see that he is nodding his accord in that regard. The scheme will operate from 17 August 1978 to 31 December 1984. The Bill reflects the general acceptance of the Government of the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission contained in report No. 1 69 of 1 5 May 1 978 on light commercial and four-wheel drive vehicles and heavier commercial vehicles and components. It is part of a total package of measures approved by the Government to encourage the assembly in Australia of commercial motor vehicles to maintain generally employment in the industry and, at the same time, to provide opportunities to reduce the impact of the prices of commercial motor vehicles on transport costs in Australia. 
The bounty provides assistance at the rate of 20 per cent of the into-store value of axles, gear boxes, propeller shafts, air brake equipment and suspension systems, having an Australian content of not less than 65 per cent, which are purchased from suppliers not associated in business with the vehicle assembler for use as original equipment in the assembly of general purpose commercial motor vehicles, including buses, having a gross vehicle mass of over 2.72 tonnes. 
Overall, Government policy is to encourage the assembly of heavier motor vehicles rather than their manufacture through reducing duties on fully imported heavier commercial motor vehicles to 22.5 per cent, reducing duty payable on imported original equipment components to nothing and providing bounty assistance on certain selected original equipment components provided for in this Bill. The bounty has been restricted to certain prescribed components. As I have said, it will exclude components manufactured in house- that is, by firms associated in business with assemblers. Components for heavier commercial vehicles are manufactured both by vehicle manufacturers and by assemblers in house and independent specialist component manufacturers. This bounty applies only to that latter category. 
One area of concern to me in this Bill is the impact it could have had on W. H. Wylie &amp; Co. Pty Ltd, a component manufacturer which operates on the fringe of the Kingston electorate. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Chrysler Australia 
Ltd. However, I am assured by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that components produced by W. H. Wylie for sale to other assemblers will be eligible for the bounty under this legislation and that it is only the items used by Chrysler Australia which will not receive the bounty. I am glad for that assurance from the Minister. 
This Bill reflects the recommendations of the IAC report on heavier commercial motor vehicles and components. The aim of the Government in sending that reference to the Commission was to provide for increased employment in this sector of the industry. However, the evidence which the IAC collected suggests that the scope for significantly increased employment is limited. To provide the best prospects of achieving this objective, the IAC concluded that the maximum spread of duty would be required- that is, a duty of 22.5 per cent on assembled vehicles and duty-free admission of components and CKD packs- combined with the payment of a bounty on all local components. It concluded that assistance in this form would allow vehicle assemblers to reduce their prices by an average of 1 1 per cent. 
However, the IAC also suggested that the effective protection which would be afforded to the industry if these recommendations were adopted would be to more than double the effective assistance which was previously being accorded to the industry. In fact, it would afford protection of approximately three times the average level of assistance available to manufacturing industries generally. If continued indefinitely, this level of assistance would have undesirable resource allocation effects and would conflict also with the Government's long term strategy for lower protection which was indicated in its White Paper on Manufacturing Industry. 
So the Industries Assistance Commission recommended that this assistance be reviewed in five years' time. I am glad that the Government has accepted that recommendation. The bounty payable expires on 31 December 1984. 1 assume that the Government has done this not only because of the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission but also because of recent statements by the Government, particularly the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  that a new policy framework for the motor vehicle industry will be adopted around that time involving lower levels of protection. I welcome these announcements - 
I hope the honourable member for Port Adelaide will listen. He might learn something. During my investigation of the motor vehicle industry overseas earlier this year, my own long held view of the need for greater rationalisation of the industry was confirmed. Certainly the emergence of the world car concept with international commonality of design and component complementarity is very clear. 
Australia must share in this trend if its motor vehicle industry is to remain viable. I am glad to see that the Minister has adopted the same views since his recent overseas investigation. Recent Government decisions in respect of which I made strong representations will confirm Australia's involvement in this trend. I refer in particular to the flexibility allowed Chrysler in meeting the 85 per cent local content requirement and also the removal of reversion control. Chrysler is the company which has initiated the trend towards rationalisation in the motor vehicle industry and it is now reaping the rewards through the sales success of the Sigma motor vehicle. We see that General Motors-Holden is now following suit in this regard with the release of the Commodore vehicle. 
So the Government must avoid the temptation to provide excessive protection. Where protection is justified it is preferable to be provided in the form of bounties rather than quotas. Furthermore, the Government must allow Australia 's industries to rationalise in accord with international trends. Because this Bill meets all of these tests I support its passage through the House. 

 Friday, 24 November 1978 

I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill which we are debating this evening introduces minor changes to the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978. The original Bill was passed through the Parliament in April last year. It gave effect to the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his 1977 election policy speech for a new assistance program for urban public transport through nonrepayable grants to the States amounting to $300m over 5 years. This represents an increase of 58 per cent over the previous 5-year program initiated by the Whitlam Government. Of course that program was boosted by 40 per cent in its final 2 years of operation when the Fraser Government came to office. Thus, in a time of general expenditure restraint the Fraser Government has demonstrated its commitment to significantly improved public transport for Australia's major urban centres through greatly increased funding. 
The principal Act provided $200m to be split amongst the various States over 5 years on the basis of a fixed schedule. The remaining $100m was allocated over 5 years amongst the States on an annual basis according to the assessed need for additional assistance over and above the fixed schedule. In this way the full $300m was allocated over 5 years. This Bill increases the allocation under the fixed schedule to $225m over 5 years. It reduces the variable needs assessed funding to $75m. It leaves the total allocation of funds unchanged at $300m but increases the guaranteed minimum allocation for each State. Thus, South Australia has its guaranteed minimum allocation increased from $20m to $22,500,000 over 5 years. 
South Australia, of course, also has access to the remaining $75m on a needs basis. When speaking in the debate on the original Bill last year I asked the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to scrutinise carefully any proposals from South Australia under the new legislation and to use his influence to ensure that the South Australian Government gives the outer suburban southern areas of my electorate of Kingston a higher priority in the provision of public transport facilities than it has in the past. I referred in support of my plea to several bad decisions by the State Government and its total neglect of the southern areas. I specifically referred to the possible implementation of the recommendations of the North East Area Public Transport Review. Events in South Australia since last April further emphasise the need for close scrutiny by the Federal Minister of the purpose of any request for funds by South Australia. 
The South Australian Labor Government has decided to proceed with the NEAPTR recommendation for a light rail transport system between Adelaide and the north-eastern suburbs. It has taken this decision despite a range of serious objections to the proposal. There are real doubts as to its validity. There is significant evidence to suggest that the need in the north-eastern suburbs is not for transport to the central business district but rather for transport within the local area and to the industrial locations in the north and north-western suburbs. These needs are not fulfilled by the NEAPTR proposals. There are also serious environmental objections about the impact of the NEAPTR proposals on the Torrens River valley and also the inner suburbs adjacent to that valley through which the light rail transport system would pass. Therefore, it will be an important issue in the forthcoming Norwood by-election. The people of the inner suburbs will have the opportunity then to give judgment on the State Governments decision in this regard. 
A major objection to the proposals is their cost. The original estimate of about $60m to provide the light rail transport system has now been revised to an estimated cost of $100m. That is clearly beyond the State's resources particularly with the South Australian regional economy in a parlous state as a result of the Labor Government's policies. Last week the State Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  said that South Australia would seek federal funding for this project to go ahead. I assume that the funds will be sought under the legislation which we are now debating. Through this legislation in recent years the Federal Government has provided two-thirds of the total funds applied to improve public transport facilities. For example, two-thirds of the total funds of $ 11.59m for the building of the Brighton to Christie Downs railway was provided under the previous Act. Under the present Act $4m has been provided in the financial year 1978-79. Another $4m is proposed for the financial year 1979-80 for the purchase of more buses and railway rolling stock for South Australia. This leaves the allocation for South Australia in the final three years of the five-year program at $ 14.5m plus, possibly, some $7m which may be available on a needs basis. This, of course, is a drop in the bucket against the total cost of the NEAPTR project, even if the cost were scattered over the seven years as suggested. 
It is quite unrealistic for the State Government to expect sufficient Commonwealth funds to be made available for this project. On past performance there is no doubt that the State Labor Government will blame the Commonwealth 
Government if a shortage of funds prevent the project from proceeding but this would be one instance when I would be quite happy for the Commonwealth Government to accept the blame. In fact, I believe that the Commonwealth Government would deserve praise if it prevented the NEAPTR proposals being implemented. Even if the funds were available from combined Commonwealth and State sources I would urge the Federal Minister for Transport to reject the proposal because there certainly would not be any funds for any alternative projects in metropolitan Adelaide if such a massive investment went into NEAPTR. The State Government would be closing off its options for alternative solutions to metropolitan Adelaide's total transport needs. 
Evidence suggests that a greater net benefit could be derived from the expenditure of $ 100m on public transport if the money were invested in facilities right across Adelaide rather than in one narrowly directed transport corridor. Even more important, proceeding with NEAPTR will result in the continuation of the State Government's neglect of the outer suburban southern areas which make up the well-known Noarlunga region. That neglect would be forced to continue if this $100m were directed to the NEAPTR project because there would not be funds available for alternative projects. 
Research now available indicates that some 47 per cent of metropolitan Adelaide's future traffic growth will be generated in this southern region. By comparison the north and north-eastern suburbs combined will generate only some 37 per cent of future growth. Yet the State Labor Government intends to splurge $100m on the north-eastern area alone. The inevitable result will be total neglect of the southern areas and residents of the southern areas should be aware of the State Government's intention to continue neglecting their transport needs unless public pressure is brought to bear against that decision. 
Honourable members wil be aware that on a number of occasions I have highlighted the need of the southern areas of the Kingston electorate for greater assistance within the public transport realm. More recent research has once again highlighted and confirmed those needs. It indicates that the overall level of travel demand expected in the southern areas cannot be met by the existing transport networks and substantial improvements to both the highway and public transport networks will be necessary. Serious capacity problems will be experienced on both the highway and public transport networks as early as 1980, and these problems will become more acute as growth continues. This evidence is already generating considerable public concern and this concern has been expressed in the local area. Already there is increasing congestion and environmental decline in the inner areas such as Brighton and Marion to the north of O 'Halloran Hill, and a lack of access to public transport and increasing congestion on South Road. This will occur also on Lonsdale Road which will be completed shortly with the assistance of Federal funds. With a estimated population growth of 100,000 between 1976 and 1996 there will be a lack of capacity in rail services and bus services on main routes. 
Despite the fact that this recent evidence is available to the State Government, it has made no commitment to fulfill the needs of the southern areas and, of course, it cannot as long as it remains committed to funding the NEAPTR light rail transport system at a cost of $ 100m. Research affirms the view which has been expressed by local government bodies and the community in general in the Noarlunga region, that unless major investments are committed to the transport system- both the road system and public transport system- the situation will be chaotic by the mid-1980s and totally disastrous by the early 1990s. A lack of action by the State Government cannot be justified on economic, social or environmental considerations. The south deserves an equal, if not greater, commitment than the north-eastern areas of Adelaide. There is no doubt that currently the southern region is considerably disadvantaged with regard to transport facilities. It is also evident that the transport system will impose severe costs on industry which is either located or proposed to be located in the southern area. 
On the basis of locational theory, it is obvious that any increase in congestion and travel times will increase the costs of production for existing industry and, of course, act as a further disincentive to new industrial development in that region. If no action occurs the cost to individual families will be immense. There could be an increase in journey time of some 50 per cent, an increase in petrol consumption of 25 per cent, and an estimated additional cost to families in the area of $ 16m per year by the 1980s. Without action with regard to public transport and new rail alternatives, there will be a rapid escalation of traffic at the major exchange points of Darlington, Sturt Road and Brighton Road where the volume of traffic is expected to rise by up to 100 per cent. The current and committed future rail and bus capacity will be hopelessly inadequate. There is an expected growth of some 300 per cent in public transport usage over the next few years leading into the 1980s and beyond. 
One of the main complaints about the public transport in the region is that a large part of the region is not serviced or, at least, is inadequately serviced. Hence there are a number of things which need to be done to cope with this developing problem. From the eastern side of the southern region there need to be express and route services to town. There need to be feeder services to the Christie Downs rail link. There needs to be a local transport system to transport people within the region itself and there also needs to be an adequate transport service to outlying areas. Of course, one of the main developments in the area in recent years was the completion of the Brighton to Christie Downs rail link with Federal funding, and it is worth noting that this facility cost $1 1.59m compared with the projected $100m for a similar sort of service to the north-eastern suburbs. The rail service has become highly regarded over the last couple of years and this indicates that people will use public transport if it is able to meet the needs of consumers. 
However, several problems for the rail system are evident and will develop in the future. Public transport usage will grow from 2,600 persons in a peak two-hour period in 1976 to 4,900 persons in 1986 and 8,200 persons in 1996. The current orders for rolling stock will just not be able to cope with this projected growth. So, to cope with the expected demand, new stock will need to be ordered and once again this brings us back to the fact that the State Government cannot afford to invest $100m in the NEAPTR project if it is going to provide the necessary facilities for the southern region. 
With regard to road traffic we find that South Road is already the busiest road in the State. Notwithstanding the development with Federal funding of the Lonsdale link, traffic volumes are expected to rise dramatically. Peak hour vehicle trips will double from 7,100 to 14,000 by 1996. As a result, journey times at peak hours could be increased by over 100 per cent if remedial action is not taken in the public transport sector. Within the Noarlunga region there are a number of areas where there are indications of poor service. Most significant is the coastal strip running from Seaford through Moana to Maslin Beach and Sellicks Beach. Additional to these poorly serviced areas are the outlying rural townships of Willunga, McLaren Vale, Noarlunga and Clarendon. Further north, part of Hallett Cove has inadequate services. Flagstaff Hill, Aberfoyle Park and Happy Valley also are suffering from poor services, as are parts of Noarlunga and Morphett Vale. So a largely increased degree of attention is required to be devoted to those particular areas within the Noarlunga region to overcome the problem which is already evident, and, of course, as time proceeds through the 1980s to the 1990s, as indicated by statistics I gave earlier, that problem will multiply immensely. 
One of the other factors that needs to be considered in the context of urban public transport for the southern region is the mismatch of employment opportunities in relation to population growth in the area. Of course, one of the main factors preventing the growth of employment opportunities in that area is the additional cost of inadequate transport to industry located there. Therefore any strategy that seeks to promote the economic development of the south will clearly be restrained by the availability of adequate public and private transport services. Hence, it is required that there be a development of a series of new road services to maintain reasonable transport access, not only to the metropolitan area but, of course, to the very important eastern States markets, which are crucial to South Australia's economic growth. 
Unless action is taken, the situation for road transport will worsen. Of course, the implications are that the cost of production will the southern region will increase by comparison with other parts of the metropolitan area of Adelaide that have better access and possibly, more importantly, the lack of transport access will be an additional disincentive for the location of new enterprises within the southern areas. So there are a number of factors which indicate not only the inadequacy in the present but more importantly the developing inadequacy in the future of the transport situation in the Noarlunga region. 
Therefore, it is on that basis I again urge the Federal Minister for Transport to assess carefully any request for funds from the South Australian State Government to ensure that that Government does give the Noarlunga region a fair deal in the allocation of funds. It is certainly not doing that by allocating $100m to the light rail transport system recommended by the NEAPTR research team. Of course the Bill before the House will provide the opportunity for the Noarlunga region to benefit from Commonwealth funds if the State Government can be persuaded to behave with equity towards that area. On that basis I wholeheartedly support the Bill and oppose the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. 
-This evening I wish to draw the attention of the House to the detrimental impact which centralised bureaucratic decision-making can have on local areas. The Southern Vales wine region in my electorate of Kingston is an area with tremendous tourist potential. With a shift in consumer preference from red to white wines, this red wine producing area also needs maximum opportunity to market its first class product. Accordingly, some time ago it was proposed to erect signs guiding tourists in the area. There was a joint meeting of wine makers in the district, the five local councils, the South Australian Tourist Bureau, the State Planning Authority and the State Highways Department, and this meeting agreed to the erection of some signs. Subsequently these signs proved inadequate to fulfil the needs of the area effectively. Hence, pressure developed in the area for the erection of additional signs. A further meeting was convened between the local councils of the southern metropolitan region and the wine producers and agreement was reached for the erection of additional signs on the basis that these signs would be designed by the council authorities and paid for by the wineries. The signs subsequently produced were brown in colour and contained the name of the winery concerned and the Souther Vales Wine Bushing Festival logo which highlights a major tourist attraction of the district. This design blends aesthetically with the local environment. 
I regard this design as most attractive; certainly it provides most necessary and worthwhile assistance for visitors to the district. The signs have received high praise from many visitors to the area, but the State Highways Department, from its concrete and glass tower miles away in central Adelaide, has decided that it knows better than the local councils, wine makers and tourists. It claims that the signs do not comply with Highways Department regulations and are nothing more than advertising. The Department further claims that the previously existing signs are sufficient to serve the area and has decreed that the new signs must be taken down, notwithstanding the careful consideration of both design and need by the local government authorities. 
Within the Southern Vales region's 64 square miles there are some 30 wineries and, because many of these are difficult to find, the signs are essential. The local councils realise this and will not remove the signs. In fact, they are meeting this evening to reinforce their support of the continued existence of the new signs. This headinthesand attitude by a State Government bureaucracy is, therefore, causing major conflict. Instead of facilitating the economic development  of the regions through tourism and the marketing of wine products, with resulting employment benefits, the Highways Department is stifling the area's potential. I believe that the Department should cease this unnecessary centralist interference in local matters and let this worthwhile initiative survive, to the benefit of all who live in the Southern Vales region. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to complaints from employees of his Department or statutory bodies for which he is responsible, or from members of the public dealing with them, about the discomfort and hazard to health resulting from the volume of cigarette smoke in their offices. 
Have any suggestions been made by departmental and statutory authority employees for restrictions on smoking in these offices. 
3 ) If so, what was his response to these suggestions. 
Has there been any intimidation of employees or members of the public who have complained about this problem. 
Does he have any plan to place restrictions on smoking in these departmental or statutory authority offices or any other way of alleviating this problem. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a substantial difference exists between the price of liquid sugar offered by the Queensland Government through CSR Limited for sale to brewers and that offered to soft drink manufacturers. 
Is a difference permitted under the Sugar Agreement. 
Is it his intention to seek any changes to these marketing arrangements. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What responses has he received from the Premiers concerning their views on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships  (Hansard,  1 March 1978, page 269). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) What consultation occurred between the Government and affected industry during the period between the Minister's statements of 3 October and 29 December 1978 concerning the regulations banning the importation of nonmetric measuring devices. 
Was a comprehensive list of exemptions available from the Department before the regulations were gazetted as indicated in the Minister's statement of 3 October 1978; if not, why not. 
Why were the regulations gazetted on 29 December 1 978 when industry was closed down for the holiday break. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What progress is being made by his Department and other bodies, such as the National Health and Medical Research Council, in developing a national nutrition policy. 
When does he expect to make a public statement on the adoption by the Government of a nutrition policy. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
What were the recommendations made by the interdepartmental committee on the issue of passports referred to in answer to question No. 1  (Hansard,  8 March 1978, page 569). 
What action has been taken to implement these recommendations. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of growing concern in the community about the traffic in drugs between Thailand and Australia? Will the Government provide to Thailand greater financial assistance and more personnel in the form of Australian narcotics agents, to increase the effectiveness of the co-operation between Australia and Thailand in the detection and apprehension of people who are profiteering from trading in drugs which destroy the lives of young Australians? 
-The Bill that we are debating this evening, the Passports Amendment Bill, proposes a number of significant additions and amendments to the Passports Act 1938-1973. It seeks to update and modernise existing legislation and practice by clearly embodying in the Act the reasons for which a passport may properly be denied and by increasing the range of offences and penalties. Since the responsibility for the administration of the Passports Act was transferred to the Department of Foreign Affairs in March 1975 there has been a continuing review of the Passports Act and procedures. Legislation governing the issue of Australian passports has remained substantially unchanged since 1938. The significance of this legislation to the public is considerable. An average of something over 1,000 passports is issued by the Department of Foreign Affairs every working day of the year. Present legislation gives a general discretionary power to issue or refuse passports, but provides no guidelines. In keeping with the Government's commitment to civil rights and administrative justice, this Bill seeks to provide a proper legislative basis for passport policy and a clear legislative framework for the exercise of Ministerial discretion, which must continue to be an essential element in the administration of this difficult area. The right to travel, to leave and return to one's own country, is recognised as a basic human right. The withholding of a passport is likely to bring allegations that a basic human right has been denied. Hence, for a number of reasons, it is necessary that the legislation spell out as clearly as possible the reasons for which a citizen may be refused a passport. 
A major interest which I have in this legislation is in relation to the problem of children being abducted and removed from Australia by one parent without the consent of the other. This problem particularly relates to situations of marital breakdown, both separation and divorce. A number of cases have been brought to my attention and I have become deeply involved in representations with regard to several of these cases. In this way I became aware of the inadequate provisions of the present legislation to cope with these situations. I should indicate also, that the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has done a considerable amount of work in this regard. I would like to commend the work that he has done on behalf of people who find themselves in this particular situation. I also mention the very dedicated work of Adelaide journalist, Dick Wordley, on behalf of a number of people who had found themselves in the tragic situation of having had their children abducted by the other parent. Dick Wordley has spent much of his own time and money in assisting these people to locate and retrieve their children from overseas. 
Such was the public interest in this issue some two years ago that Adelaide television station channel SAS-10 produced a special program in which I, along with the honourable member for Hawker, Dick Wordley and the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  formed a panel to discuss the cases of several parents who also appeared on the program. 
The extent of this public interest I believe highlights the seriousness of the situation. In order to further highlight that I wish to refer to one such case. However, for reasons of privacy I will not give the names of the particular people involved. This case began back in February 1 975 when the husband and father of the two children disappeared from the marital home and this effectively began the couple's separation. The husband had previously established a liaison with another woman. The mother and wife finally traced her husband and the children to New Zealand. At that stage she borrowed a substantial amount of money to conduct a search for the children in New Zealand which involved travel expenses, legal fees and fees for private investigators. Finally, after several months searching, she found her children in New Zealand. Following that, she instituted custody proceedings in New Zealand; meanwhile, her husband took off with the children and returned to Australia. He left a postal address for his wife and, by contacting him at that address, she arranged to meet him and the children in Melbourne. The day after the first meeting in Melbourne she returned ostensibly to take the children out for the day in Melbourne but instead returned with them by plane to Adelaide. Subsequently, at the end of 1975, the mother instituted custody proceedings in the Supreme Court. In the middle of 1976, this case was transferred to the Family Court. The first hearing of the case was towards the end of October 1976. The court finally gave a custody decision in favour of the mother in the middle of 1977. 
However, following that custody case, the mother agreed to allow her former husband access to the children for one particular weekend. Following that weekend, the children were not returned to her. A warrant was issued by the Family Court in Adelaide for the return of the children. The warrant did not instruct the Commonwealth Police to undertake an extensive search for the children but only allowed them to return the children once their mother had found them. Subsequently, the Family Court issued a warrant authorising the Commonwealth Police to search motor vehicle registration records. It was during this part of the case that I became involved to assist the mother in her endeavours. I should say that at that time I received the utmost co-operation from officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. Finally, the Commonwealth police were instructed to take all possible initiatives to find the children. 
At this time it was discovered that the children had left with their father- he having abducted them- on an international flight. So the search began once again. It has continued since that time in various overseas countries. Following my representations with regard to this case, I am glad to say that the Federal Government has recently agreed to make an ex gratia payment in the form of legal aid to the mother to assist in the return of the children to her as legal custodian. However, before that can occur the children have to be located and brought before a court. 
The resume of that particular example indicates the sorts of problems that are faced by parents in a separated situation who do have the legal custody of their children when that child or those children are abducted by the other parent and removed from the country. As a result of that particular case and other cases, the honourable member for Hawker and I have pursued the need for changes in policy to minimise the opportunity for such abductions. 
On 22 February 1978, the honourable member for Hawker asked a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  whether an interdepartmental committee had been appointed to examine and to report on the issue of passports with particular reference to child abduction. The Minister answered that question on 8 March, indicating that an interdepartmental committee had been appointed and had reviewed recommendations from the Department of Foreign Affairs concerning the issue of passports. In that review, it had considered the incidence of child abduction. On 2 1 February this year, I placed a question on notice seeking from the Minister an indication what were the recommendations made by that interdepartmental committee on the issue of passports referred to in his answer to the question posed by the member for Hawker, and what action had been taken to implement these recommendations. 
Only yesterday the Minister provided an answer to that question which stated that the interdepartmental committee, to which I had referred in the question, considered but did not make specific recommendations on the departmental review of passport matters. The Minister stated that the results of the departmental review and the interdepartmental committee consideration of it have been taken into account in the Passports Amendments Bill which is currently being dealt with in the House. 
In taking account of that particular problem of abduction, the Bill continues the present practice of requiring the consent of a spouse or former spouse for the issue of a passport. This practice has attracted increasing criticism from some applicants for passports. Perhaps it has caused inconvenience and even distress on some occasions. However, I believe that it is necessary to retain that requirement for the practical means of protecting not only the financial rights of a spouse or former spouse but also to guard against this situation of child abduction and removal from the country. 
The present procedure, which continues under the legislation, provides an opportunity for the other party to take legal action to prevent the applicant from leaving Australia, and thus possibly evading maintenance obligations, settlement of property matters, or of course the abduction of children. However, I understand that the need for the consent requirement will be significantly reduced when Australia becomes a signatory to the International Convention on Recovery Abroad of Maintenance and at that time the present practice will be discontinued. If and when that is discontinued, I hope it does not have a detrimental effect on the capacity of the legislation to hinder people who would seek to abduct children and to remove them from the country. 
In particular, it is clause 8 of the amending Bill which inserts a series of new provisions into the Act. Some of these new provisions do relate to the problems of abduction. The insertions which in fact involve a new section 7 in the principal Act, list a number of categories of persons to whom passports shall be refused by authorised officers. Briefly, with certain exceptions, they include persons who are not married and who have not reached the age of 18 years, unless the consent of persons having custodial rights has been obtained. 
That particular part of clause 8 is directed towards the problem of child abductions but it will not eliminate the problem of the removal of children from Australia since it can be by-passed by dual nationals who hold two passports, by the use of false documents, by making false statements, and by making application outside Australia for a passport. Nor does it overcome the problems of passports previously issued at a time of marital harmony. However, the clause does tighten passport procedures in this regard and provides additional protection to people who may fear the abduction of their children. 
I understand it has been suggested that children should be issued with individual passports. After studying this proposal the Government has come to the view that this would not prevent the unauthorised removal of a child. Individual passports would also raise the possibility of the child taking the passport and leaving the country without the knowledge of either parent or being removed by another unauthorised person. 
Increased costs would be incurred by large families. Further, there would be increased workloads in issuing separate passports for children. This work load could not be handled without an increase in staff. The proposed requirement for parental consent to the Issue of a passport to children who have not obtained the age of 18 years, which is embodied in the legislation, therefore provides the opportunity, so far as the legislation can practically go, to cope with this problem. Eighteen is the age at which, according to the Family Law Act of 1975, a child ceases to be under parental control. The present consent rule regarding passports applies up to 17 years; it was not based on particular legislation. 
During the passport review by the interdepartmental committee, to which I referred earlier, it became clear that the problems of child abduction went beyond the simple matters of passport issues and a further interdepartmental committee has therefore been established to investigate all aspects of this specific problem, including the procedures which other departments and authorities could follow to prevent child abduction. I understand that that interdepartmental committee has now concluded its investigations and is reporting to Cabinet. After Cabinet has considered that report, an appropriate announcement will be made. I look forward very much to the announcement of Cabinet's decision on the report of that interdepartmental committee. Certainly I believe that Cabinet legislative or administrative changes are necessary to reduce the incidence of children being removed from Australia by one parent without the knowledge or against the wishes of the other parent. 
Despite the fact that clause 8, through the insertion of proposed new sections in section 7 increases the effectiveness of the legislation, I still have some concern about its total effectiveness in coping with this problem. One of the major problems with child abduction concerns children whose endorsement appears on one of the parent's passports. I have discussed this matter with the Minister and, to overcome it, I seek his assurance tonight that all the provisions of the new sections in section 7 dealt with in clause 8 will apply to applications for endorsement on the passport of those entitled to custody of persons under 18 years of age as well as to applications for separate passports. I have been assured that this will be taken care of in the regulations, but I seek a further assurance from the Minister in his reply to the debate that that will occur. 
I further seek the assurance of the Minister that the signature on the consent in writing required under new section 7A 2 (a) will be required to be witnessed by a justice of the peace, police officer or some other person of similar official status known to the person alleged to be giving consent. I believe that only in this way can maximum precautions be taken against forged written consents. 
I have a further concern in relation to proposed new section 7A (2) (c) (i) and (ii) (A) and (B). I fear that there is a possibility that this proposed new section, which allows an officer of the Department to issue a passport without consent in writing, or in certain circumstances without a court order, may be exploited by those intending to remove abducted children from Australia. Therefore, once again I seek the Minister's assurance that the authorised officer will, in each case in which a passport is applied for under this proposed new section, conduct the most stringent inquiry into the bona fides of the applicant before issuing such a passport. I understand that the first one or two amendments proposed by the Opposition direct attention to these problems. But given an assurance by the Minister that appropriate action will be taken in the regulations, and in the administration of the Act, I would not support those proposed amendments. However, I most strongly seek such an assurance. 
The ultimate solution to the problem of child abduction for separated or divorced couples is to ensure that separations or divorces do not occur. Increased emphasis must be placed on the sanctity and value of the family unit as the basis of our society. The Government, through its policies, has a responsibility to ensure that maximum support is given to the family and thus minimise the likelihood of marital breakdown with its subsequent problems, of which child abduction is one manifestation. 
I turn to one other aspect of the Bill before I conclude. As well as its obligation to provide travel facilities to its own citizens, the Government as a responsible member of the international community, has an obligation to those countries to which its citizens travel. Australian passports contain a message from the GovernorGeneral of Australia requesting other countries to provide free passage, protection and assistance to the bearer. This imposes on the Government a responsibility to ensure that, as far as possible, passports are not issued to persons who are likely to threaten the national security and public order of another country, or the rights and welfare of its citizens. Of particular concern are political extremists and terrorists, drug pedlars and persons inclined to violent acts as a result of mental illness. 
I am glad that once again the Bill reflects this concern. In particular, I believe that Australian authorities have a responsibility to limit the potential activities of drug pedlars. Whilst it could be argued that the denial of travel facilities to extremists, terrorists and drug pedlars could be in violation of a basic human right, I believe that the risk to the rights of others that is posed by these persons is a more important consideration. Therefore, I am glad to see proposed new section 7e inserted. It provides a basis upon which a passport may be withheld from such persons. 
Recently, on my way to India to represent the Australian Government at the Commonwealth Countries' Conference on Government Policy on 
Youth Affairs, I took the opportunity to spend several days in Thailand investigating the scurrilous trade in drugs. I intend to refer to that issue in more detail in the debate on the Customs Amendment Bill in this place shortly. However, in relation to the Passports Amendment Bill, suffice is to say that any action taken to stem this traffic has my wholehearted support. Therefore, I particularly welcome proposed new section 7E and commend the Minister for its inclusion. 
With the qualifications that I have indicated in relation to this legislation, and having sought the Minister's assurances upon them, I support the Bill, oppose the proposed amendments and urge its speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 21 February 1979. 
1) Has his attention been drawn to reports that in dealings with the Export Development Grants Board, businesses find that (a) it seems impossible to gain a firm commitment from the Board as to the eligibility of specific export programs and (b) there are frequently long and unnecessary delays in the payment of even the most straightforward claims. 
If so, will he give an undertaking that procedures will be implemented to provide small, hesitant would-be exporters with real encouragement to take their first steps in support of the Export Now campaign. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Has he had time to conclude his consideration of the wide range of recommendations of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
When will the Government make decisions on the recommendations of the Report and issue an appropriate statement. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of reports suggesting that Australia should introduce a wealth tax? Has the Government considered such a proposal? If so, what attitude has been adopted towards it? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) Why does the Government insist that applicants for officer entry into the Royal Australian Navy be naturalised Australian citizens of at least 10 years standing if not Australian-born. 
Do the Army and some categories of the Air Force accept that being a British subject is sufficient to meet citizenship requirements for officer entry. 
Does the 10 year rule discriminate against lads of impeccable British origin who have migrated to Australia less than 10 years before applying for officer entry. 
Why is there a variation in the citizenship requirements between different services and between different categories within the same service. 
-Is the Treasurer aware of the decision by the South Australian Government to limit individual shareholdings in Santos Ltd, the Cooper Basin gas producer, to 15 per cent and to force shareholders to divest holdings of more than 1 5 per cent? Does this early backtracking by the new South Australian Premier from his commitment to be more favourably disposed towards private enterprise - 
-I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  would not like to be seen as the drug traffickers' friend. But in seeking to weaken this legislation before the House- the Customs Amendment Bill- through proposed amendments, he certainly gives the appearance of being just that. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in his remarks attempted to draw a distinction between a trafficable quantity of drugs for which a penalty of 25 years is provided and a commercial quantity of drugs for which a life penalty is provided as defined in the legislation. He implied in his remarks that those involved in trafficable quantities were most likely to be addicts, whereas those involved in offences with regard to commercial quantities were most definitely traffickers. In fact, the evidence suggests that both these quantities of drugs are most likely to be held by traffickers, that is those profiteering from this scurrilous trade. In fact, addicts would hold significantly lower quantities for which, under existing legislation, lower penalties already apply. 
In support of his case the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also drew on an article published in the  National Times  written by  Dr Alfred  McCoy. The fact is that  Dr McCoy  is recognised by very few agencies or authorities either within Australia or overseas as an expert on the drug scene. 
He certainly is not the real McCoy.  Dr McCoy's  techniques include hypothesis on information gained from government officials at various levels or from Press articles and then making public statements, particularly in the Press, and following that, seeking public or official comment or debate on them. Apart from that approach the article he wrote in the  National Times  is significantly exaggerated. Certainly  Dr McCoy  would have great difficulty in substantiating a number of the statements contained in that article. 
The article also contains substantial errors indicative of the inadequate research  Dr McCoy  has undertaken in respect of the legislation. For example, his article states: 
Those convicted of conspiracy to import commercial quantities will receive a mandatory life sentence on the first offence. 
Later he says: 
A second conviction for dealing in trafficable quantities will face a mandatory life sentence on a second conviction. 
However the legislation does not impose a mandatory life sentence for any offence. All drug offences covered by the Customs Act involving a commercial quantity and second offences involving trafficable quantities carry a penalty of imprisonment for life or for such period as the court thinks fit. So clearly, that demonstrates the inadequate research which  Dr McCoy  has undertaken in regard to this Bill.  Dr McCoy  in the article also asserted: 
The use of the drug issue to grant ASIO telephone taps is not therefore a promising precedent. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has always had authority to tap telephones. The amendment in relation to the tapping of telephones for drug offences in this Bill has no relevance to ASIO powers. Generally speaking the article is extreme, without balance or objectivity. In typical  Dr McCoy  fashion it makes statements and develops hypotheses with which few people would agree. 
The legislation which we are now debatingthe Customs Amendment Bill- was introduced while I was absent leading the Australian delegation to the Commonwealth Countries Conference on Government Policy on Youth Affairs held at Chandigarh in India early in March. I had just spent several days in Thailand on the way to India investigating at first-hand the problem of drug trafficking between Thailand and Australia and particularly the sad evidence of increasing involvement of young Australians in that horrific trade. As a result of those investigations, I had reached the conclusion that, among other things, much stiffer penalties were required in Australia for drug trafficking offences. Stiffer penalties are among several significant provisions in this Bill. I was therefore glad to hear the news while in India that this Bill had been introduced into the Parliament. This legislation is essential to complement the work Australia and other nations are undertaking internationally to combat the major social problem of drug abuse. After gathering first-hand that information about trafficking problems internationally, as I said, I became convinced that tougher measures were required within Australia to complement our international co-operation to stamp out this dreadful trade which profiteers on a massive basis from the destruction of the lives and ultimately the death of many young people. This Customs Amendment Bill adopts that necessary tougher approach. While we should all have the greatest concern and sympathy for the victims of the drug traffic- those who become addicted to narcotics- there can be only the strongest condemnation for the cynical, immoral and greedy traffickers of these goods who thereby accumulate vast fortunes. This legislation is directed at those unscrupulous operators and not at their victims who are being actively assisted by government programs in health, education and welfare. 
The legislation has several prongs directed at drug traffickers. Most importantly, the legislation increases the current penalty of 25 years to life imprisonment for offences involving what is denned as commercial quantities of narcotics. In the case of heroin this is defined as an amount of 1.5 kilograms. The maximum penalty of life imprisonment will be possible for a first offence involving commercial quantities of narcotics. The legislation also provides a life sentence for a second offence involving what is defined as a trafficable quantity of narcotics- in the case of heroin, 1.5 grams. These increased penalties are essential, not only from the point of view of retributive justice- acknowledging the tremendous destruction and ultimate death caused to young people who get hooked on the products of this trade- but also as a deterrent. Clearly traffickers regard their occupation as a business proposition. Therefore, if penalties are made sufficiently severe traffickers will measure those penalties against the rewards they receive from the trade. Sufficiently severe penalties will therefore discourage people from their involvement in drug trafficking. I believe that the courts must apply the maximum penalty on most occasions once this legislation passes the Parliament. To assist in that regard, State governments must also upgrade their penalties in the areas of responsibility they have for drug offences. I was glad to see this week that the Federal Court upheld a Crown appeal in the Tait case and increased the penalty applied to that individual. Once this legislation is passed the Government must monitor the sentences handed down by the courts under it. If those sentences prove to be too lenient I believe the Government should subsequently introduce further amendments to ensure that stiff sentences are handed down by the courts. 
A further provision of the Bill linked to increased penalties is the capacity it gives the courts to freeze any profits or property derived from illicit drug trafficking and impose a pecuniary penalty equal to those ill-gotten gains. Quite often those involved in the drug trade wash the enormous profits they derive through investing them in legitimate business activities such as real estate or other financial activities. Hence, offenders have often been prepared to offset the risk of imprisonment against the knowledge that they have large illicit profits safely held in some form of investment during their detention available to be enjoyed once they are released from prison. 
The new legislation allows the court to deny the traffickers the benefit of any assets or income derived from illicit drug trafficking. This acts as a further disincentive to those involved in the trade. The legislation will also allow narcotics officers to engage in telephone bugging for the purpose of intercepting information with regard to drug trafficking arrangements. The telephone has been a major weapon used by those involved in drug trafficking. The ability provided to narcotics officers to intercept the telephone calls of those who are suspected of involvement will be a major contribution to their detection and apprehension. The legislation also provides that internal body searches should always be undertaken by a qualified medical practitioner. Hence suspected traffickers will no longer have justification for objecting to an internal body search. This will further enhance the possibility of their detection. 
The legislation provides for an offence of conspiracy and an offence of attempting to possess narcotics. These two aspects of the legislation are particularly aimed at the syndicate bosses- those people who are the brains and who provide the money behind the whole horrific trade but who never get directly involved in the handling of drugs. I believe that the Customs Amendment Bill will make a worthwhile contribution to the efforts being made to stem this horrific traffic within Australia. 
In addition to this legislation the Government has also recently introduced other measures to cope with this developing problem. It has recently purchased three J Class high speed, ocean going patrol boats for use by narcotics agents stationed in our north-west coastal region. The Government has also instituted daily air patrols of our northern coast between Geraldton in Western Australia and Cairns in Queensland. These aircraft are fitted with special radar equipment to detect smuggling attempts by drug traffickers. The Government is in the process of establishing a far more sophisticated communications network to enhance the capacity to intercept smuggling activity. All of this effort, and more, is essential to cope with this growing problem. 
Some people are sceptical about the beneficial effects of concentrating on stamping out supply while the demand for narcotics persists. But merely concentrating on the motivation of individual addicts ignores the fundamental fact that heroin is a mass market commodity with salesmen and distributors, just like cigarettes, alcohol or aspirin. There may be a rising number of young Australians who today are willing to use something like heroin because they are unhappy, bored or unemployed. They have the option of trying heroin or becoming lifetime addicts because heroin is neatly packaged in uniform doses, is sold at standard prices and is available at many distribution points in all major Australian cities. That marketing structure and the supply of the dreadful goods it is desired to push can be stamped out. If that occurs then a major contribution will have been made in preventing the spread of drug addiction. 
There is evidence to suggest that the stabilisation of heroin addiction in the United States in recent years is due in no small measure to the success of the United States Drug Enforcement 
Administration in squeezing the trafficking syndicates out of the United States market, thereby reducing the available supply. Clearly, with increased emphasis on this problem in Australia, we can expect success similar to that of the United States in stamping out the trade. Hence positive benefits are to be derived from concentrating on cutting off the supply, both at its point of entry to Australia and at its source. 
Nevertheless, it must be remembered that this is only one prong of the necessary approach. There is also the need to concentrate on reducing the demand by rehabilitating existing addicts and dissuading potential addicts from indulging in drug taking. The present Government is strongly committed to both prongs. 
The Commonwealth has assisted the States in an extensive program involving rehabilitation of drug addicts. It is also currently spending $lm a year on an education program designed to dissuade young people who may be contemplating trying out drugs from doing so. Additionally, $160,000 has recently been provided for the current short term concentrated campaign of advertisements which some honourable members may have seen over the last week or so. I have received many extremely favourable comments from constituents about the impact of these advertisements. So the Commonwealth Government is committed to both prongs- to stamping out the supply and to reducing the demand for drugs. This is necessary because over recent years the problem has been a growing one. 
The experience which I derived from the few days I spent in Thailand investigating the problem indicates that over the past decade South East Asia has become the world's largest producer of illicit narcotics and a major supplier of heroin for addicts in Australia. Within the region of the Golden Triangle, which covers northern Thailand, north-east Burma and western Laos border regions, the growing of the opium poppy is an old and accepted occupation. It is one crop which provides an immediate and lucrative return to the farmer and so sustains many communities in the area. The illicit drug trade derived from that source is undertaken by syndicates on an organised basis. The appeal of this trade to the criminal element is obvious. 
Heroin trafficking is the most profitable business known. Estimates indicate that it costs $500 to purchase from Thai poppy farmers in the Golden Triangle the quantity of raw opium required to manufacture one kilogram of heroin. That one kilogram of heroin sells for $250,000 on the streets of Sydney. No other form of business activity, legitimate or illegitimate, can, through its sequence of manufacturing and marketing processes, derive a mark-up from $500 to $250,000. This profitability ensures that the cultivation of the raw product, the opium poppy, is a major industry within the Golden Triangle. It is the major economic activity for some 1,000 villages in the region, providing a livelihood for about 200,000 farmers. 
Chinese merchants provide the link between these opium growing villages and the heroin manufacturing laboratories which are hidden away in inaccessible jungle in this mountainous region. These merchants virtually operate in the region as semi-autonomous warlords with mobilised armed guards to accompany their trading caravans. The heroin producing laboratories which are hidden away in the jungle are also heavily, guarded and protected from detection by sophisticated warning devices and by the fact that they are moved from place to place from time to time. All of these factors make the interception either of the raw material or of the drugs during manufacture extremely difficult. After manufacture, in order to avoid detection, various means of transport and various routes are used from the Golden Triangle to the points of distribution. The major point of distribution to the international market is Bangkok because it is reasonably adjacent to the Golden Triangle. It is also an easily accessible international centre from which to distribute the drugs overseas. 
As far as Australia is concerned the syndicates responsible for the manufacture and international distribution of these narcotics are linked with crime syndicates in the eastern States of Australia for the purpose of smuggling the drugs into Australia and enabling their distribution. These Australian syndicates send paid couriers to Thailand to exchange money for the appropriate quantity of drugs which they then attempt to smuggle into Australia. There are people who might be described as amateurs who are also becoming involved in the trafficking of drugs from South East Asia to Australia. A third category of courier is the person who travels to South East Asia as an innocent tourist. While he is there he is approached- often the approach is unsolicited- in the street, in an hotel lobby or by a taxi driver and succumbs to the temptation to purchase a small quantity of drugs to take back to Australia in the knowledge that there is a tremendous profit to be made from such an activity. 
Worthwhile attempts to cut off the supply have been made in Thailand. The most notable of a range of activities directed at the source of supply is what is called the crop replacement program which is being undertaken in the Golden Triangle. The purpose of this program is to encourage those farmers who are dependent upon growing opium poppies as a cash crop to grow alternative cash crops. That program has achieved significant success as a pilot program. On the basis of that success it is intended to extend that program throughout the Golden Triangle region. Of course, that will take some time because of the extensive nature of the region and the extensive nature of opium poppy growing in the area. 
Linked to that attempt to stamp out supply is the second aspect of the fight which, of course, is the detection, interception and apprehension of those people involved in trafficking drugs between Thailand and Australia. There is significant co-operation in this between the Thai and Australian governments and their respective narcotics bureaus to maximise the apprehension of drug traffickers between the two countries. I believe that Australia should be extremely grateful for this co-operation. 
Thailand has half a million drug addicts of its own who represent about one per cent of the population. Its resources are stretched to the limit in dealing not only with those addicts but also with the internal drug traffic which feeds them and seeks to enlarge their number. The contribution which it makes on top of this in attempting to prevent drugs from reaching Australia is, therefore, commendable. I believe that the assistance we provide in several co-operative ventures- the stationing of narcotics agents, training courses, the provision of detection equipment and our role in the regional intelligence network- should be significantly increased to ensure that we are more successful in cutting off the supply of drugs at its source. Traffickers detected in Thailand, if found guilty, face very severe penalties. Whilst I was in Thailand, I had the opportunity to visit in gaol the three Australians whose case has generated most publicity in the Australian media, namely William Sinclair, Warren Fellows and Paul Hayward. They are being held in Bangkok central prison which, in terms of conditions, is one of the better prisons in Thailand. Nevertheless the conditions are far harsher than in Australian prisons. Certainly on the basis of the evidence against them there is no doubt in my mind that they are guilty, and therefore must suffer the consequences of their actions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made his point. I ask the honourable member for Kingston to withdraw that remark. 
I understand they have pleaded guilty, but in view of the intervention of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I will withdraw that remark. I think that the lesson to be learned from the case of these three men in particular and from other Australians being held in Thailand should serve as a terrible warning to any young Australians contemplating involvement in drug trafficking. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
) Did the Prime Minister promise, when announcing the ending of Government funding for the Good Neighbour Council  (Hansard,  30 May 1978, page 2730), that the Government would assist in the redeployment of staff and the placement of volunteers. 
If so, has the Public Service Board now ruled that redundant staff from areas not covered by the Public Service Act must compete on merit for vacancies open to persons outside the Public Service. 
What positive efforts is the Government making to assist Good Neighbour Council staff to find new positions. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) What level of usage by customers is considered necessary by Australia Post to justify keeping a post office agency in operation. 
How many agencies with less than this level of usage are still in operation and why have they been allowed to continue in existence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 April 1979: 
1 ) What is the estimated additional cost to the Commonwealth Government of lowering the age of eligibility for pen- .sions for men to (a) 64, (b) 63, (c) 62, (d) 61 and (e) 60 years. 
How many additional men would be expected to claim a pension in each age category. 
-Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to statements by  Mr Colin  Kay,  President  of the Wine and Brandy Producers Association of South Australia, indicating that the abolition of the trading stock valuation adjustment provisions, by costing the wine industry $3m to $4m next year, will have a severely detrimental effect on red wine production and hence red wine grape growers? Has his attention further been drawn to a report by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that average farm income in the McLaren Vale-Southern Vales red wine grape growing region of South Australia is expected to fall to $4,500 in 1978-79? Are these assessments accurate? If so, while ensuring that all sections of the community fairly share revenue burdens, will the Government avoid imposing further penalties on industries such as the wine industry which can ill afford to bear them? 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House, in the International Year of the Child, noting that: 
1) the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of the Child states that the child, by reason of his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth, and asserts that a child shall be entitled to grow and develop in health and to this end special care and attention should be provided both to the child and to the mother, including adequate prenatal and post-natal care, and 
that the annual abortion rate in Australia of approximately 60,000 is believed to be one of the highest rates in a developed country, recommends that the Commonwealth and State Governments ensure that adequate funds are granted to Pregnancy Help, Pregnancy Support and Birthline organisations so that they may continue their assistance to mothers and babies in the pre-natal and post-natal stages particularly, and thereby alleviate or remove some of the pressures which force some women to resort to abortion. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 February 1979: 
1 ) How many post office agencies have been closed in South Australia since I January 1978. 
) Where was each of these agencies located. 
What reasons have been given by Australia Post for these closures. 
Are these reasons considered to be justification for the inconvenience the closures have caused users of the agencies. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) What sums have been paid to each State Government in each financial year under the Commonwealth Rebate Apprentices Full-Time Training scheme since its introduction. 
How many apprentices have been taken on under the scheme by each State Government in each financial year. 
What other funds have been provided to the States in the field of apprenticeship training. 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware of the severe disruption being caused to production in the motor industry by an industrial dispute involving a minority of employees at the plant of W. H. Wylie and Co. Pty Ltd at Tonsley Park in South Australia? What are the consequences of this dispute for the Australian motor industry in general and the employees of Chrysler Australia Ltd in particular, many of whom live in my electorate of Kingston? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
Has the Federal Government held any discussions with the States at either ministerial or departmental level concerning implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries (the Horton Report). 
If not, are discussions planned in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
1 ) Which local representative bodies were consulted by Australia Post before the closure of the non-official post office at Wheatland Street, Seacliff, South Australia. 
When were they consulted and what views did they express. 
3 ) Were Federal and State members of Parliament given advance notice of the closure; if so, when. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by his predecessor  (Hansard,  15 March 1977, page 178) that in principle the commercial activities of the Commonwealth Government ought to be subject to the same restraints as apply to the commercial activities of the private sector, with a number of national interest exceptions. 
If so, which commercial activities of Government instrumentalities are not currently subject to the Trade Practices Act. 
Are there plans to bring those instrumentalities under the Trade Practices Act; if not, why not. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether the South Australian and New South Wales governments, contrary to the attitude of the Commonwealth and other States at a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council in April, announced that they would proceed to gazette stricter emission controls similar to Australian Design Rule 27A stage 3? Did both governments subsequently, in acknowledgment of the energy situation, inform the Commonwealth at the Premiers Conference that they would reconsider their positions in relation to 2 7 A? Given this, does the Minister know whether the New South Wales and South Australian governments have done an about face on that undertaking? Does the Minister have any assurance that the South Australian Government, if re-elected on 15 September, will not proceed with ADR 27A stage 3, to the detriment of fuel economy and vehicle costs, and will instead adopt the responsible approach of the Commonwealth Government to encourage greater use of pollution free fuels such as liquefied petroleum gas or diesel which also maintain fuel economy? 
It is with some consternation that I am confronted by this matter of public importance raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  concerning misleading statements about South Australia by Prime Minister Fraser and others. The temerity of the honourable member for Adelaide in moving such a matter for debate in relation to the South Australian election amazes me. It is not the Prime Minister, Liberal parliamentarians, State or Federal, or their supporters, who have made misleading statements about South Australia in the context of the current election. The Labor Premier,  Mr Corcoran,  and the Australian Labor Party are the only source of misleading statements in relation to the State election. This has been compounded by the honourable member for Adelaide today with his farrago of personal abuse directed at  Mr Tonkin  and representatives of employers in South Australia. 
From the very announcement of the election right through the campaign, blatant dishonesty has been the hallmark of the Labor Party's approach. This dishonesty began with the very reason given by the Premier for calling the election. He told the people of South Australia that he needed a personal mandate. Of course no one believed him. The real reasons behind this election are twofold. Firstly, Labor had its campaign advertising prepared well before the announcement of the election in anticipation that an unpopular Federal Budget could be used as an excuse for an early State election. The favourable reception deservedly given to the Federal Budget pulled the rug from under the Labor Party in South Australia. It quickly needed another excuse or the Labor Party would have done its dough. So the Labor Party decided it would spend $lm of taxpayers' money to hold an unnecessary State election so that its own previously committed campaign expenditure would not be wasted. So much for the public responsibility of the Labor Party. 
The second reason for this election is that the left wing extremists who now control the party in South Australia cannot wait to get control of the Legislative Council. They believed, mistakenly as the campaign is turning out, that the current support for the Labor Party in South Australia would give them enough votes in an election to win control of the Council. The Legislative Council would thus be destroyed as a house of review and eventually abolished. These are the two real reasons for the election and not Corcoran 's need for a personal mandate. But perhaps the whole thing is a dreadful mistake. As the erstwhile Premier told us in announcing the election, his decision followed some late night pillow talk with his wife. Perhaps  Mr Corcoran  thought his wife said: 'Dear, if you want to know that you are loved you need an election'. By the time he realised he had misunderstood her, the election had been called and it was too late. Of course, the Premier's demand for a personal mandate itself is dishonesty in the context of the Westminster system. In the Westminster system the electors vote for local candidates endorsed by respective parties, with the ultimate result that the majority party forms a government. The leader of that party becomes Premier or Prime Minister. 
In the Westminster system we do not vote for the leaders, as happens in the presidential system in the United States or elsewhere. This, of course, shows the scant regard which the Labor Party has for the Westminster system of democracy. 
This initial dishonesty in calling the election by the Labor Party has been compounded in its campaign. Corcoran has made up his mind to conduct a Canberra-bashing, blame-Fraser and the feds election campaign. It is an old political trick: If things are bad at home find an external threat and focus attention on that. He has not succeeded. As the polls being published in the  Advertiser  show, this week the people are not being conned by this approach. The issues that are specific to South Australia are the issues that are concerning the voters. Things are so bad in South Australia that the more Corcoran has concentrated on Canberra, the more South Australians have appreciated the seriousness of South Australia's plight. More importantly, they know they cannot blame Canberra but can and are blaming Corcoran. They know that South Australia is not sharing the economic growth occurring in other States as a result of the sound policies of the Fraser Government at the Federal level. This is evident in so many areas. 
Perhaps to cite the changes in levels of unemployment would be one fair example. I cite the changes in the levels of unemployment for each month from February to August of 1979 compared with the same months in 1978. For the rest of Australia, excluding South Australia, February 1979 compared with February 1978 saw a fall in unemployment of 20,600. In South Australia for that same period there was an increase in unemployment of 5,900. Similarly in March this year against March last year, for the rest of Australia there was a fall in unemployment of 29,700. In South Australia there was an increase in unemployment of 9,000. In April there was an increase in unemployment for the rest of Australia of 4,700 but an increase in South Australia of 6,900, more than the whole of the rest of Australia. May saw a fall in unemployment for the rest of Australia of 500 compared with an increase in South Australia of 3,000 compared with May of the previous year. In June the rest of Australia had a fall in unemployment of 11,400. In South Australia unemployment increased by 4,700 compared with June of the previous year. In July there was a fall of 5,400 in unemployment in the rest of Australia, but in South Australia it fell only by 100. The most recent month, August 1979, compared with August 1978 saw a fall in unemployment in the rest of Australia excluding South Australia of 18,700; whereas in South Australia there was an increase of 800. These figures are compounded by the current figures given by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for overall percentages of unemployment. For Australia it is 5.8 per cent, and for South Australia it is 8.2 per cent. Furthermore, for the decade of the 1970s, in Western Australia those in employment, in the work force, increased by 24 per cent, in Queensland by 16 per cent, but in South Australia by only 9.8 per cent. For the period from 1975 to 1979 the Western Australian work force grew by 5.3 per cent, in Queensland it grew by 2 per cent, but in South Australia it fell by 0.5 per cent. So clearly those employment figures are a severe indictment of the policies that have been pursued by South Austraiian Labor Governments. In particular they make a mockery of claims in Labor's election advertisements of the success of Labor's job creation programs in that State. 
In South Australia there is a crisis of confidence reflected in a crisis in business confidence, in consumer confidence and in the confidence of the electors themselves. Businessmen, consumers and voters now realise the economic well-being of South Australia is being destroyed by the present Labor Government. That destruction will continue if Labor is returned in the election on Saturday, particularly if it has a majority in the Legislative Council. The far-reaching changes to South Australia's industrial law will be bulldozed through the South Australian Parliament. Employers have made it clear that this will result in more business leaving South Australia and those that remain further reducing their level of activity. The honourable member for Adelaide asserted in a television interview on 
Monday night that Corcoran would consult with employers on this matter. But the businessmen have had too much experience already of consultation Corcoran style. He looks at the t's and the i's and agrees to alter the 'ands' and the 'buts', but makes it clear that the aspects of real concern to business confidence are matters of principle and therefore non-negotiable. To the Premier of South Australia, the Corcoran consensus means the same as the Corcoran command. So Corcoran again is misleading the people of South Australia in his promise to consult. 
Corcoran has attacked the Fraser Government with claims that the Federal Government collects seven out of every eight dollars of tax collected in South Australia. But the Federal Government whether Labor or Liberal has been the largest collector of taxation ever since uniform taxation was introduced in 1942 by the Curtin Labor Government.  His  claim does not reflect on the taxation policies of the Fraser Government.  His  claim is also dishonest in detail. Seven-eighths of taxation in fact represents 87.5 per cent. The fact is that the Federal Government collects only 78 per cent of taxes collected in South Australia. In his claim, Corcoran also ignored the fact that 40 per cent of income tax is returned to the States in untied grants. These have increased markedly in recent years under the Fraser Government. He also ignores the fact that South Australia receives above average per capita reimbursement of income tax revenue to the extent of $160 more than in New South Wales and Victoria. Furthermore, South Australia receives $40 per head more than New South Wales and Victoria in tied grants. Again, Corcoran is deliberately misleading the people of South Australia. Similarly he misleads the people with his claims of double taxation. In fact, with sound financial management the State Government would have the capacity to give a tax rebate under the Fraser Government federalism policies. 
The people of South Australia know only too well, as reflected in the polls this week, that South Australia is on the skids under the present Labor Government's administration. They will not be diverted by the dishonesty of the Labor Party's election campaign nor by the remarks of the two members from South Australia on the Labor side during the debate on this matter of public importance today. I certainly join the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in totally rejecting the terms of this matter of public importance. The return of a Liberal government in South Australia on Saturday will ensure that South Australia again becomes a great State, as it was in the Playford era. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The time for the discussion has concluded. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In what ways is the Federal Government encouraging investment in Australia's mining and manufacturing industries? 
Belatedly, tonight, because the opportunity was denied by proceedings in the House last week, I take the opportunity to congratulate my State colleagues in the Liberal Party in South Australia for their devastating and well deserved victory in the State elections last Saturday week. But the people of South Australia and, indeed, Australia, should be warned that the shrewd myth-makers are already at work, trying to lay the foundation for a future Australian Labor Party recovery by offering reasons other than the real ones, for Labor's thrashing. 
-They are Labor liars indeed. The myth-makers are falsely postulating that Labor's defeat was a result of angry reaction to an unnecessary early election and hence the consequence of a mere error of political judgment on the part of former Premier Corcoran. Certainly, the early election was detrimental to Labor, but only in a minor way. The  AdvertiserSouth  Australian Institute of Technology surveys- which accurately predicted the election results, indicated that the early election was a major issue for only 2 per cent of the electors. The myth-makers are secondly postulating that the defeat was due to a sustained anti-Labor campaign by the South Australian business community which was not justified by South Australia 's economic circumstances and biased reporting by the Adelaide  News.  The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  have been prominent whingers in this regard. But the very fact that the business community campaigned in a way unprecedented in previous State elections demonstrates the depth of its concern this time about the future of South Australia under a continuation of Labor Party policies. It would have meant bankruptcy for South Australia. Given the extent of government control of business in South Australia, it took great courage for the business community to campaign for South Australia 's future in the way that it did. The  News  in its articles was merely reflecting the depth of concern about the State's future felt throughout South Australia. I understand that it had great difficulty obtaining alternative newsworthy information from the Labor Party, such was the confusion in Labor's camp. I particularly take issue with the assertions of the honourable member for Bonython about the  News  in Adelaide last Thursday week. Some years ago I had the privilege of being one of his politics students at Adelaide University. I say 'privilege' advisedly. He was a quite interesting politics lecturer. 
-Well, some people, I understand, did that. I recall very vividly his assertion in lectures that alleged media bias had no impact on voting behaviour because voters perceived views expressed in newspapers through their own ideological predisposition. Hence if a newspaper expressed a view which accorded with the reader's own predisposition, that would reinforce that view but if the contrary were the case, it would be perceived as a biased report and be rejected. The honourable member for Bonython in now contradicting himself either lacks credibility as a member of this House or he lacked credibility as a politics lecturer. The fact is that the  News  was reflecting the deep concern about South Australia's regional economy felt by a majority of South Australians. 
So we come to the real reasons for Labor's thrashing last Saturday week. That reason is the failure of the Dunstan and Corcoran Governments over the years satisfactorily to manage South Australia's economy. It is only over the last couple of years that this mismanagement has bitten deeply in South Australia's regional economy. 
-They certainly could not take it any longer. Before that it was hidden to some extent by the credits built up during the Playford Liberal era. These credits were gradually frittered away by Labor. More and more people became aware of this over a time, climaxing in Saturday's election result. Linked to this was the growing and valid fear which South Australians had about the activities of left-wing unionists and their trendy friends, both in controlling the Labor Party and in fomenting industrial strife to the community's detriment. 
So let the myths about this election be destroyed and let the realities stand firm. The myths are being created because they provide no long-term reason for people to deny their support for the Labor Party. But the realities do provide a reason. The real issues in the election last Saturday week will remain a continuing product of Labor's socialist ideology. The people of South Australia, and indeed Australia, should remember that and continue to deny their vote to the Australian Labor Party. In conclusion I especially congratulate the new Premier, David Tonkin, for his electoral breakthrough, achieved last Saturday week, in metropolitan Adelaide. This area was a previous Labor stronghold. It registered a swing of 13 per cent against the Labor Party. Of course, that swing was especially reflected in the State seats which are located within the Federal electorate of Kingston. I congratulate both the previous members who were returned to office and also the two new Liberal members who have been elected to serve the people in the South Australian Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased to give wholehearted support to the Federal Budget, for it is a balanced and reasonable document which shows the Government's determination to proceed with policies which are succeeding in restoring a greater sense of equilibrium to the economy and removing the distortions which developed during the years of the Labor Administration. This Budget is fair to all sections of the community for it displays Liberal principles of promoting a flourishing private sector with incentives for initiative and at the same time seeks to uplift and support the needy and the under-privileged. 
The constructive approach of the LiberalNational Country Party Government contrasts markedly with the negative approach adopted by the Australian Labor Party in this Budget debate and in the amendment which it has moved. The poor tone for Labor Party contributions was set by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  with his tirade of malicious abuse against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was utterly devoid of reasoned argument. The Leader of the Opposition has admitted to walloping donkeys in his youth. The braying he has substituted for reasoned debate over this Budget could lead one to believe that he has been transformed into one of those poor animals he used to torment. The Leader of the Opposition reminds me of the British political leader who confessed: 'There are two problems in my life. The political ones are insoluble and the economic ones are incomprehensible'. That is a good summary of the confusion in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition about this Budget and about economic matters generally. 
To the degree that anything coherent could be discerned in his speech, his theme was to spend more of the taxpayers' money and increase the deficit, both by an unspecified amount. In other words, the Labor Party has not learned the lessons of its disastrous years in government between 1972 and 1975, during which the present Leader of the Opposition held a senior office and for which he must take a major responsibility. The Labor Party is still a party of high government spending and an expanding public sector. Apart from being totally lacking in economic responsibility, this approach is not what the people of Australia want, as the last two federal election results have clearly demonstrated and as was demonstrated recently in the South Australian election results. 
Opposition members have shown the severe limitations of their capacity for economic analysis by claiming that the Budget is on the one hand pro-business and on the other against the average family man. This simplistic dichotomy completely fails to grasp what the Budget is about. It is a fundamental economic fact that restoring prosperity in Australia requires a healthy outlook for business and that this is inextricably linked with the prospect of more job opportunities. The two go together. Opposition members, in seeking to set the interests of employers and employees against each other, are simply regurgitating the old slogans of the class warfare of the 1930s. Such notions are rejected by most Australians but are still alive and well in the minds and on the lips of members of the Opposition. 
A Labor government would expand the deficit without considering the effect that that would have on inflation and in worsening unemployment. The Opposition displays a very narrow focus when it calls for more spending on particular welfare areas. It fails to appreciate that overall economic policy is a vital part of welfare policy, for failure of total economic policy is bound to hit the disadvantaged for whom the Labor Party falsely claims to speak exclusively. That was clearly demonstrated by the events of 1974-75 when it was in government. It has been highlighted by the conclusions reached by the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty- the Henderson Committee. In other words, restraining inflation and creating more chances for jobs in the long run are important benefits for the needy, as are specific benefit payments. This capacity to take a sound overall view of the economy is one of the great attributes of the present Government. 
The comment by the Leader of the Opposition concerning the creation of a youth works corps especially interested me. It snowed a complete absence of reality in the Labor Party's thinking. 
The Leader of the Opposition claimed that his scheme could create jobs for 50,000 young people at an annual cost of $80m to $ 100m- that is, about $40 per week per head. Such a sum would be quite inadequate to run a scheme for that many people. The sum needed would be much higher- in the order of $300m to $500m. How this could fit into the Budget priorities has been left unexplained by the Opposition. Far from providing long term employment for 50,000 young people, the detrimental impact of such a program on the Budget deficit and hence the economy would destroy far more jobs in the private sector than would be created in the public sector. 
The Leader of the Opposition also spent time in his speech on the Budget complaining about the non-restoration of tax indexation in the Budget. The Government made it very clear in May that it could not remove the surcharge and restore tax indexation at the same time. The Government therefore removed the surcharge but has made clear its commitment to the restoration of indexation in due course. For all the Leader of the Opposition's complaints about this aspect of the Budget, it is worth remembering that just a few weeks before the Budget he himself said: 
Well, we're committed to the principle of tax indexation, but I'm not suggesting that we would go ahead with it immediately. We 'd have to weigh up whether we could afford it or not. The implementation of full tax indexation would cost another $500m. We've got to trade that off as against tax cuts. Which would people prefer? At this stage, I think they 'd prefer the tax cuts. 
Yet even when this Government, to some degree, takes his advice he still moans and groans about it. By contrast to the Labor negativism there is the clear positive thrust of government policy as presented in this Budget and based on a record of real achievement. I realise that economists often differ as to what policy approach is the best. I am reminded of George Bernard Shaw's remark that if all economists were laid end to end they would not reach a conclusion. Nevertheless, I believe that this Government has found the best mix of policies. We have brought inflation down from the dizzy heights of the Labor era. We have provided real incentive for individuals and businesses. We have significantly reduced the call of the Government on the country's financial market. Furthermore, we have extended our commitment to assist the needy and the disadvantaged. Hence, the Budget deserved the favourable comments made about it both in the community and in the media, such as that of the  Australian Financial Review  when it stated: 
The policies of the Budget provide the best possible environment for business. 
The Government's anti-inflation policy means our industries are getting more competitive in overseas markets and we can expect to maintain our relative advantage over the corning year. Our better competitiveness in manufactured goods means that exports are rising. Thus, in the 12 months to June 1979 exports by metal manufacturers increased by 3 1 per cent compared to just over 1 per cent in the previous year. The export of machinery and transport equipment in 1978-79 was up by 23 per cent compared with the previous year. This Government is committed to making sure that the economy becomes more export oriented and is therefore changing assistance to industry on a rational basis so that Australian industry is viable and competitive in the long run. 
Such rationality is apparently not welcome to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  since he has made a strong attack on the Industries Assistance Commission and, indeed, threatened its future. This is something to be deplored. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to be objecting to the process of rational debate on the Commission's draft reports. He has also opposed the move from quotas, which can be particularly stultifying, to protection through tariffs. Such an approach is extremely shortsighted. Australian industry can never fulfil its full potential unless the economy is more open to the competition of world markets so that Australian industry can, in turn, reap the benefits of the economies of scale which production for world markets provides. Only this will give the basis for the growth of permanent job opportunities in the long run. 
Since I have a particular interest in the formulation of policies for young people, I was pleased to see some important advances for the young in the Budget. Funds for the Home Savings Grants Scheme have been increased massively- from $20m to $75 m. Spending on the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training, which is an important aspect of the Government's manpower training program, also rises significantly from $26m to $54m. 
Many forms of education allowance including the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances are having their means tests adjusted so that more students can benefit from them than would otherwise be the case. The very important education program for unemployed youth will receive $3. 7m, an increase from the previous $3.1m. In addition to that, $2. 5m will be paid in allowances to participants. Over recent years this scheme has had a demonstrably positive record in upgrading the skills and attitudes of early school leavers with low levels of skill achievement and low motivation. It is fitting them for the work force and for job opportunities that are available. The sum of $200,000 is allocated to experimental projects for the Voluntary Youth Community Service Scheme. Apart from the young, other sections of the community will benefit from this Budget. Pensioners have had six-monthly indexation restored, which is something I have been urging for some time. I welcome the Government's initiative in this area. I am also delighted that the income limit for eligibility for fringe benefits for pensioners has been liberalised. This will be of considerable benefit to a number of people who are resident in my electorate, which has a high percentage of elderly people by comparison with the Australian average. 
The assistance to tourism, which has been initiated in this Budget with the introduction of depreciation allowances for new incomeproducing buildings for tourist accommodation, also has special relevance to my electorate of Kingston with its magnificent beaches and the Southern Vale wine district increasingly being recognised by tourists. The small business sector is a vital source of jobs in Australia. I welcome the further assistance to that sector by an easing of the distribution requirements for private companies under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The retention allowance is increased from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. I was also pleased to see that there was no substance in the rumours about the imposition of a wine tax and about which some rumour mongers in the Opposition encouraged significant speculation. I am pleased to see the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  has just entered the chamber. He is one who has joined me very strongly in the fight on behalf of the wine industry in this country and in particular in South Australia. One of the great challenges facing us is of course employment. We must not be blind to the need for policies to deal with this in the future. But it is also proper to reflect on the progress made so far in creating permanent private sector jobs which this Government seeks for the people of Australia. Recent statistics show improvements in this regard, unlike the massive loss of jobs which was caused by the policies of the previous Labor Government and which began during its period in office. 
A fair basis of examination of unemployment in Australia is to compare the Bureau of Statistics numbers of unemployed for any given month with the number of unemployed in the same month a year earlier. This method avoids difficulties about seasonal adjustments as might occur on a month to month comparison. When one looks at those figures and compares them for each month of this year with the same month for the year before, one can see that the employment situation is at present improving. Thus, unemployment in February this year in Australia was 14,700 lower than in February 1978. In March, it was 20,700 lower than a year before. The news in April this year was not so good in that the figure for unemployment was 1 1,600 up on last year and in May it was up by 2,500. Good news returned in June when unemployment fell by 6,700 compared with June 1978. In July, unemployment was 5,500 down on last year and in August it was 17,900 lower than 12 months previously. So, for all but two months since February this year unemployment has been lower than in the same month for the previous year. 
As a South Australian, I was particularly interested in the figures for that State. I found to my sorrow, but not to my surprise, that South Australia under the previous Labor Government had done much worse than the rest of the country. Since February in all months but one the number of people unemployed in South Australia is higher than for the same month 12 months previously. Thus in February 1979 the South Australian figure was 5,900 higher than in February 1978, while in the rest of Australia excluding South Australia, unemployment fell by 20,600. In March, unemployment was up in South Australia by 9,000 while in the rest of Australia unemployment had decreased by 29,700. In April in South Australia unemployment was up by 6,900 while in all the other States put together, excluding South Australia, the rise in unemployment was only 4,700. May saw a rise in unemployment in South Australia of 3,000 compared with May the year before, while in the rest of Australia, excluding that State, unemployment dropped by 500. In June the South Australian unemployment figure went up by 4,700 while in the rest of Australia it went down by 1 1,400. In July the South Australian situation improved a little. Unemployment dropped by 100, however the rest of the country saw employment improve by 5,400. In August South Australian unemployment was once again on the rise by a figure of 800 while in the rest of Australia unemployment fell by 18,700. So, not only has the performance of South Australia been disastrous in comparison with the rest of Australia, but in being so, it has pulled the rest of Australia down more than it ought to have. 
The other matter we ought to remember when considering employment is that there are more people employed in Australia than ever before. Clearly, South Australia has had a particular problem preventing its sharing in the progress being made in the rest of Australia. Happily, there is now a new climate in the South Australian economy thanks to the wisdom of the South Australian voters last Saturday week when they decisively rejected the Labor Government which had been in office for some years and which stultified development in that State. They have now put a Liberal Government into office. 
As the honourable member says, I certainly hope that it will be for ever. I certainly believe that the policies that the new Government has already demonstrated it will implement will lead the electors of South Australia to give it the kind of support which will enable it to enjoy that electoral success. With the election of a Liberal Government there is already renewed confidence in that State. In the future there will be a willingness by business to create new jobs. As time passes South Australia's employment performance will begin to compare favourably with the rest of Australia. However, just as it is taking the present Federal Government some years to gradually but surely correct the economic imbalances created during the Federal Labor era, equally the new South Australian government cannot restore prosperity overnight. But South Australia now has an exciting future to which it can look forward, especially with its prospective mineral developments under a Liberal Government determined to remove the shackles from private enterprise. That was something that the State lacked under the socialist yoke a fortnight ago. 
I conclude my remarks in this debate on the Budget by reminding the House that the successive Budgets of the Fraser Federal Government since coming to office in 1975 are keeping Australia on the correct path for restoring balanced economic growth and renewed prosperity and in developing real hope for a confident future in Australia. I am proud to be able to support this Budget and in so doing I reject the amendments proposed by the Opposition. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. How successful does he consider last week's inaugural National Youth Conference, which was sponsored by the Federal Government, to have been? Following his commitment to take the major recommendations of the conference to Cabinet, will the Minister seek to ensure that Cabinet gives early consideration and an early response to these recommendations? 
-At the outset I want to express my disappointment at the litany of abuse that we have heard in this debate from Opposition speakers on the matter of public importance they have proposed, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Of course, we have heard their trite comments and their negative approach so often before. But for all that the Opposition still completely fails to come to grips with the real problems facing the Australian economy and the problems associated with increasing job opportunities in this country. The present Government does have a very real concern for the unemployed. Demonstrably it has much more concern than has the Austraiian Labor Party. The concern of the Government is not the spurious type of concern which is whipped up by the Opposition when it suits it politically to do so. 
All we have heard from the Opposition today is another tirade of emotive language devoid of real meaning. Of course, what we need to ask is: What is behind the approach of the Opposition? The answer is very simple. It is to hide its own disastrous record in government. The Labor Party's period in government was disastrous for young Australians and particularly for job opportunities for young Australians. Indeed, the record shows that far from being an expert in management, the Labor Party is an expert in creating unemployment. Among the governments of the developed countries none could claim to have been as quick as the Whitlam Government of the early 1970s in turning a situation of full employment into one of distressing unemployment. 
It is worth recalling that in April 1974 the unemployment rate stood at some 1.3 per cent, or 76,865 persons. By January 1975- a mere eight months later- the unemployment rate was 5.2 per cent, or 3 1 1,596 persons. What an incredibly pathetic performance by the Labor Party when it was in government. Of course we all know that the reasons for that pathetic performance were the economic policies and the management approach adopted by the Labor Government. It is worth recalling that the economic situation which developed in that time was directly attributable to the policies of the Labor Government. 
As a result of the very sound policies of previous Liberal Governments, Australia at that time was very largely self-sufficient in oil supplies. Therefore, when we had the 1973 oil price hike by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Australia was very largely shielded from the detrimental international economic consequences of that oil price hike. Despite that, but because of the domestic policies adopted by the Labor Government, massive unemployment was created in Australia. Having created that unemployment, what did the Labor Party do to try to overcome it? 
-Certainly, the Labor Party made the situation worse. One would have expected it to adopt a sounder and more responsible economic approach. It did not. Its approach to unemployment was the same as its approach to all other areas of the economy. All the Labor Government did was to increase government spending. It does not take long to look at its efforts to overcome unemployment because, in fact, it did precious little. As I have said, its approach was to spend more of the taxpayers' money. The Labor Government was very good at spending other people 's money. 
In the manpower field the Labor Party had three initiatives- the National Employment and Training Scheme, the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme, and the infamous Regional Employment Development Scheme. The NEAT Scheme was an embarrasment to the Whitlam Government from the moment it left the concept stage. It became nothing more than an overgenerous system of tertiary education allowances. It was only when the Fraser Government came to office and took the scheme into hand that the NEAT Scheme started to meet the objectives of a national vocational training program. The present Government redesigned the Scheme to provide the sort of training that enables people to find useful places in the labour market. It ought to be noted that the extent of expenditure on such programs does not denote their effectiveness. 
The second scheme of the Labor Party was the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme with its maintenance provision. That Scheme could not be supported even in concept. Certainly, by the time the scheme was terminated after having been tried for a while it had been battered and abused and was shown to be completely hopeless. 
Finally, of course, there was the infamous RED Scheme which was introduced specifically to deal with the rising level of unemployment. This program was typical of the incompetence of the Labor Government. It was designed to treat the symptoms of unemployment rather than the deep-seated causes. In fact, rather than overcoming the problem it aggravated the causes of unemployment. Despite the investment of large sums of money, the Scheme had no impact on unemployment and the expenditure worsened the Budget deficit, fuelled inflation and thereby added to the deterioration in employment opportunities in the private sector. So while offering some temporary palliative to a few of the unemployed, this program worsened the overall situation by reinforcing the major cause of deterioration in the labour market- inflation. Of course, we have heard again today from the Labor Party the same attitudes in regard to unemployment and youth unemployment in particular. We have seen no new or real remedies. 
I do not believe it has got any. If we listen to what the Leader of the Opposition says, he confirms that fact. All we have heard about is a program for job creation among young people. The Leader of the Opposition's costing of that program is completely astray, as has been demonstrated very effectively in this debate by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  By putting up that program the Labor Party shows very clearly that it has not learnt from its disastrous record in government. It is still a party of high government spending, high deficits and high taxation and, therefore, high inflation, high interest ratesMr Neil- High unemployment. 
And, as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  interjects, high unemployment. The job creation program proposed by the Leader of the Opposition would worsen that situation. Its cost to revenue and its effect on the deficit would ensure that, even though it may provide a palliative for what he claimed to be 50,000 young people, far more jobs than that would be lost in the private sector through the program's overall detrimental effect on the Australian economy. So we see that the Labor Party is still devoid of any real ideas about effective economic management and real job creation for young Australian people. That is highlighted by the approach it took to the economy at its Adelaide conference. From the results of that conference the Labor Party's complete hopelessness on economic management can be seen. The statement from the Adelaide conference was as follows: 
With the understanding and co-operation of the trade union movement, development of economic policy which would encompass wages, incomes, non-wages incomes, the social wage, taxation reform and elimination of tax avoidance, and which will achieve a more equitable distribution of our national wealth and income with the commitment to the maintenance of real wages by quarterly adjustments and the passing on of the benefits of the increases in productivity. 
This is the economic policy of the Labor Party. It has been described by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  as a 'hotch potch' and by  Mr Hawke  as 'a gutless sellout to the left'. 
In contrast, the present Government has a positive approach to the employment situation, the result of its policies for stable economic management and remedying the economic imbalances created by the Labor Party. If we look at the record of this Government in the area of employment it is a very favourable one. The unemployment figures for each month this year, compared with the same month last year, show a significant improvement in most months since February right through until August this year, the latest month available. In fact all but two months of this year show a significant improvement on the employment levels for the same months last year. 
If we want to know what would happen if Labor were in office we need to look only to the situation that occurred in South Australia under a Labor Government. If we compare figures for this year with those of last year, in each month, between February and August, with the exception of only one month, the level of unemployment rose. The record shows very clearly the difference in approach between the Liberal Party and the Labour Party when in government. To supplement its success with employment, the Commonwealth Government has a significant range of manpower programs to upgrade the skills and maintain the job orientation of 212,000 young people this year. The most important of those is the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training. In this present Budget the expenditure on that program has been almost doubled and the number of people assisted will increase from 56,000 to 85,000. Similarly, the Community Youth Support Scheme will assist 40,000 young people this year and the various segments of the National Employment and Training Scheme will also be of significance in helping a large number of young people. Some 85,000 young people will be assisted under the various aspects of the NEAT scheme this year, the most important of those being the Education Program for Unemployed Youth. 
Finally, I believe that the National Youth Conference made a worthwhile contribution to Government decision making in this most important area of youth employment. The Government is in the process of giving very serious attention to the recommendations that have come out of that conference and it is significant, notwithstanding the explanation given by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  earlier, that not one member of the Opposition saw fit to attend that youth conference and listen to its deliberations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-Clause 4 of this amending legislation goes to the very hean of the problem which we face in the Australian community- the disruptive activity of irresponsible trade unions. In the industrial relations scene in recent times we have seen a significant shift in power towards the unions, especially union leadership, and away from employers and government. The attitude revealed by the Australian Labor Party Opposition in this debate highlights the attitude of the trade union movement. It seeks the protection of the law when it is to the advantage of the unions but seeks to escape from the provisions of the law when that law is to the disadvantage of the unions. I believe that clause 4 of this legislation to a large extent will assist in restoring the balance of power. This clause is part of the whole process of making the system of industrial relations in this country more rational. 
The clause is necessary since some of those involved in industrial relations lack a proper sense of perspective or any feeling of public responsibility. This clause therefore has the very sound objective of ensuring that people who wish to exercise their right to strike do so in full knowledge of what they are about and are genuinely prepared to make a sacrifice to achieve what they believe are legitimate goals. The clause prevents the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from awarding payments to employees for periods that they have been on strike. It has always seemed to me something short of ludicrous that people can be paid for not working. That is an absurd imposition to place on an employer. He suffers enough from industrial disruption without having to make payments when no work is done or when no goods or services are produced. 
The lack of responsibility by the trade union leadership in the industrial relations sphere is of major concern to the people of Australia. They are justifiably sick and tired of the disruption to their lives caused by industrial disputes. This attitude is reflected in my own electorate of Kingston. Many constituents have personally complained to me about the disruption that they experience through the activities of trade unions. This has been confirmed recently, according to media reports, by an Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls survey within my electorate which was apparently sponsored by the Labor Party. The reports indicate that that survey showed that the abuse of trade union power and industrial disruption were major issues in the minds of people resident in the Kingston electorate. 
-That is right,  Mr Millar.  What I am saying is very relevant to the clause. 
It is relevant,  Mr Millar,  because those who go on strike ought to be made to realise the effect their actions have both on themselves and on the community. 
Clause 4 will ensure that people who go on strike are made very much aware of the effect of their actions on their own situations by providing that they will be denied wages for the periods when they are on strike. I certainly believe that the attitude that has been expressed by people in the Kingston electorate is typical of the view of people right around Australia. We need to recognise why people have this concern. They realise the effect that strikes are having on themselves and on the country as a whole. In that context I think it is worth considering the statistics on industrial activity released yesterday. They indicate that there have been significant losses to the country even in years when industrial disputation was relatively low. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, in 1976 disputes cost 3,799,200 working days, which is no small total. The estimated loss of wages in that disputation was $1 14,552,000. In 1977, 1,654,800 working days were lost, costing $59,674,000 in wages. In 1978 the situation worsened, with 2,130,800 working days being lost. 
-With due respect,  Mr Millar,  I am referring to the cost of wages lost, and I would argue that that is very relevant to wages not being paid for working days lost by people on strike. 
-Clause 4,  Mr Millar,  relates to payment of wages to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. The comments I am making are directly related to the wages lost through industrial disputation. Those are wages which might have to be paid to those employees if the clause is not implemented. In 1978 the value of wages lost was $78,404,000. Of course, they are significant losses to the nation's productivity and to those on strike. If this clause were not introduced - 
As I was saying before the point of order was raised by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, those wage losses are significant losses both to the nation's productivity and of course to the wages of those on strike. If this clause were not passed as part of the legislation employers could be forced by the Arbitration Commission to pay wages to people for periods when they were on strike and this would be a significant cost to those employers and a significant additional cost to the nation. Those statistics that I have cited very much justify the firm line that has been taken by the Government in this legislation and in this particular clause. 
I am very glad for the support of the honourable member for St George. The clause is made even more important by the fact that there were more working days lost in the first half of this year-2,474,400-than for the whole of last year, meaning a loss in wages of some $91,499,000. Once again, this is far more than for the whole of last year. It is for this reason that this clause is so important It will ensure that employers cannot be required by the Arbitration Commission to restore wages to people who have been on strike. This clause gives effect to the fact that people are sick and tired of the level of disputation that those statistics represent. My own constituents are certainly sick and tired of that level of disputation and I am sure that they are fully in support of the intention of clause 4 of the legislation. Its aim is to ensure that militant trade unions do not get privileges to which they are not entitled. The unhappy fact that we face is that the militant union leadership today is getting way out of touch with the day-to-day desires and aspirations of the average union membership. Extensive opinion polls confirm that fact very strongly. 
Clause 4 is very important in the process of overcoming union militancy and protecting the rights of the average citizen. I think it is worth reiterating the need for workers and grassroots members of unions to involve themselves actively in the affairs of their unions to ensure that the leadership accurately reflects their views and takes action appropriate to their wishes. I believe it is especially important that they become involved with the election of union office bearers through secret ballots. Perhaps then we will not have the level of industrial disputation that has led to the necessity to insert this clause in the legislation. I am quite sure that the people of Australia support the insertion of this clause in this very important piece of legislation and I am very happy to give my strong support to it. 
-Clause 16, which relates to the deregistration of unions, is a very sensible attempt to introduce more flexibility into industrial relations. The clause refers to section 143 of the principal Act. This has rarely required alteration by governments of either party over a number of years up to the present time. But alas, threats of industrial militancy are now such that the Government has no choice but to act in this way providing an alternative route in seeking deregistration of unions. Of course this is a most serious matter. The Government has proceeded very responsibly. The Government certainly cannot be accused of heavy handedness regarding this proposal. Despite this, the Opposition this evening has been strongly opposed to this most reasonable initiative. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  accused the Government of taking away from the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission its traditional role and of giving itself the power, behind the cloak of the Governor-General and the Executive Council, to determine the question of deregistration of unions. He also claimed that under this clause the Government can lay down the standards for the operation and behaviour of trade unions. 
Such a view is not justified by the provisions of clause 16 or by the comments of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  Therefore it is important that we ask ourselves why the Labor Party is so vehemently opposed to this clause. Of course, the answer lies in the increasing power of the militant extremists of the Left in the trade union movement. This is in turn reflected in their growing influence over the Labor Party. It should be noted that this is happening despite a widening gulf between the attitudes of the militant union leaders and the grass roots union membership. In opposing this clause members of the Opposition confirm their position as spokesmen for the militant Left. We need to remember the long historical ties between the Labor Party and the trade union movement and especially between the party and the trade union leadership. The very origin of the Labor Party goes back to when the trade union movement decided to achieve through Parliament what it could not get through industrial force. That is exactly what it is trying to achieve by opposing this clause this evening. There has always been a close interrelationship between the two. Their organisational links are intimate. Thus when the trade union movement becomes more extreme inevitably so does the Labor Party. It is little wonder that they do not like clause 16 of this legislation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -There is no substance to the point of order. It has been a free-ranging discussion until now. 
-Thank you. We should remember the voting power that the trade unions have directly in the Labor Party machine, their direct control over party office bearers and over party parliamentary pre-selections. That ought to be remembered in the context of this particular clause. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Whilst the debate has been basically free-ranging I remind the honourable member for Kingston that we are debating clauses IS and 16. 
I accept the point that we are debating those clauses but it is important for us in this debate to establish why the Labor Party is so strongly opposed to those clauses. The reason is the direct link between the Labor Party and the trade union movement which has expressed opposition to these clauses. The voters, particularly in South Australia, are very much aware of the attempts of the Trades Hall to foist left wing union candidates into safe Labor seats at both State and Federal levels. Sometimes the electors in even safe Labor seats have revolted against this as we saw- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Again I remind the honourable member for Kingston to make his remarks relevant to the clauses under consideration. 
My remarks will certainly remain relevant. We saw this in Semaphore recently where  Mr Apap,  who was particularly opposed to this sort of legislation, was defeated by an independent Labor candidate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The point of order of the honourable member for Burke is upheld. I once again remind the honourable member for Kingston that we are debating clauses15 and 16. 
The importance of clause 16 is emphasised in the case of the Master Builders Association - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The Chair has listened to the points of order raised by the honourable member and they have been upheld. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Burke has been on his feet twice. I upheld his points of order. 
-Clause 16 has particular relevance to the application of the Master Builders Association of New South Wales for the deregistration of the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation in the Australian Industrial Court. I think we ought to recall the way in which  Mr Justice  Smithers summarised the actions of the Builders Labourers Federation at that time. He said in his judgment: 
. it is apparent that the executive officers of the union have endeavoured to establish an unreasonable domination of employers and indeed of employees by intimidatory actions, arrogant, vulgar, and insulting communications, mass violence to property, and menaces, sometimes in mass, and sometimes terrifying to persons . . . it is as though the Federation converts the expression ' Have gun will travel ' to ' Have power will ban '. 
Despite that it was very difficult for that union to be deregistered. That is why it is important that these clauses are passed in this Committee stage. The importance is emphasised by the link between the Labor Party and the trade union movement. They are inextricable. 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Is the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources aware that Australian wines, especially South Australian wines - 
And some wines from other districts, recently won a number of prizes in the authoritative Paris Wine Olympiad? Is the Government taking any steps to capitalise on this success by promoting increased exports of Australian wines? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
Has his Department received complaints from importers of orchid stocks concerning quarantine regulations; what has been the nature of the complaints. 
Is the Plant Quarantine Branch of his Department undertaking a review of the suitability of these regulations; if so, who is undertaking the review and when will the result be made public 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a recommendation in the Report on Museums in Australia (pages 23 and 24) for the formation of regional networks of museums, each region having a curator provided at the Federal Government's expense. 
What would be the cost of this proposal. 
Would this recommendation be consistent with the Government's policy of restraint in public spending and its federalism policy of decentralising power and responsibility as much as possible. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 3259  (Hansard,  29 August 1979, page 766) why does Part V of the Trade Practices Act provide that the Commonwealth cannot be prosecuted for breaching the Act. 
Is it the Government's intention to amend the Act so that the Commonwealth is subject to the same penalties as private enterprise; if not, why not. 
