
 -Mr Speaker, first may I congratulate you and the  Chairman  of Committees on being elected to your high offices. I trust that you will both carry out your duties in a fair and just way. Also may I congratulate all new members of this House. However, I think it a great pity that more of them are not sitting on this side of the chamber. I particularly want to congratulate the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  on his election and to thank him and the electoral distribution commissioners who, with help from a member of the front bench opposite, all contributed to creating a more politically aware seat of Griffith. Perhaps our situation could be improved if more honourable members opposite took a leaf out of the book of the former honourable member for Griffith and, for the good of the country, just moved their electorates over a bit. I commend that to them. 
I appreciate the honour that the electors of Griffith have bestowed upon me by electing me as their representative. I would like them to know that I am here to represent all of them, however they voted. My electorate is one of the first to feel the chill of a government which puts social justice at the tail end of its priorities- a government whose harsh policies are actually fermenting social disorder, a government which directs its public servants in the welfare area to stick to the letter of the law and to throw compassion and decency to the wind. My electorate takes in the busy inner city of Brisbane, which has the biggest local authority budget in Australia but which is the only city in Australia forced by the policies of an unsympathetic conservative government to ask its ratepayers to subsidise the cost of public transport. The electorate takes in Moreton Island, which is the subject of an environmental battle. Its near city developing areas are heavily populated by young people of working age, young couples and pensioners- groups of people who are the first to be frustrated and deprived by administrative heartlessness. 
Whilst the Government's policies are often unsympathetic to the point of being absolutely callous, I believe that many of those on the benches opposite are people of compassion. I appeal to them to stir up what little social conscience there is on their front bench. In the short time that I have been a member I have learnt much of the enormous hardships of those deprived by the Government's attitudes and actions. Only a short drive across the city from my home is the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Centre at Taringa. It can help about 120 handicapped patients on a daily basis and the new facilities opened only last year are commendable because for the first time an attempt has been made by the Australian Government to cater for the real needs of the handicapped people in Queensland. But the shocking thing about the service provided is that although the waiting list for the centre is longer than the list of enrolments, it is the only place of its type anywhere in the State. 
When we consider the length of time that Federal Liberal-Country Party governments have been in office in the past 25 years we have all the evidence we need of just how skew-whiff their priorities and values really are. Adequate facilities for only part of this disadvantaged section of our community were provided only last year. Most of the patients at the centre are under 25 years of age. One in four are the victims of motor accidents. One in two have medical problems, such as epilepsy or a heart condition. Until last year this very needy section of the community throughout Queensland had to make do with less than proper and adequate facilities. It was not a Liberal government which set about righting the inadequacy. It was the Whitlam Labor Government which held office for only three of those past 25 years which ensured that funds became available. 
I am, of course, aware that another rehabilitation centre is being built in Townsville. That centre too was put into the pipeline by the Labor Government. Care of the handicapped is one matter which should be above party politics. I ask honourable members opposite, when they think of the rising unemployment figures, to think for a moment how it affects the handicapped people in our community. When this Government took office 60 per cent of the men and women who received appropriate training and assessment at the Rehabilitation Centre in Queensland were able to enter the work force. Now, I understand, 20 per cent are lucky to find a job. I have a particular concern for the handicapped in my electorate because they contribute to a problem more prevalent in Griffith than anywhere else in Queensland. This is the problem of the housebound people who, through age, infirmity or handicap are afraid or unable to leave their homes without assistance. The life of a housebound person is one of the loneliest in the world. I urge the Government to give special attention to the problems of the handicapped. A good start would be extended sales tax exemptions on the special aids which are essential to them. 
The Griffith electorate includes a large industrial area with acitivities such as oil refining, meat works, fish boards, dry docks and manufacturing. In the past it has been an area filled with the promise of good, steady work for those willing and able to seek a job. Today it is filled with the almost endless fear of losing a job. In the building industry we have the almost continuous hopeless drift from job site to job site of people competing for the few vacancies which become available. For the business sector, particularly the small businessman in the industrial and semiindustrial fields, it means low returns because of slack demand or even bankruptcy. A look through last week's newspapers points up the economic wizardry of the Fraser Government. The giant financier IAC (Holdings) Ltd announced last week that it had incurred a loss of $5 lm in the year to 3 1 December. It is one of the biggest losses ever recorded by a company operating in Australia. Western Mining Corporation's profit is down 40 per cent and it does not see its prospects picking up in the near future. General Motors-Holden's Ltd has just announced a loss of $8.4m for 1977. Chrysler Australia Ltd has announced a loss of nearly $28m. The Nissan Motor Co, (Australia) Pty Ltd has forecast that it will announce a loss. The industry expects the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd to announce a loss. So far it looks like four out of four local manufacturers reporting losses. 
In 1974, the last full year of the last Labor Government, all those companies reported healthy profits. IAC (Holdings) Ltd reported a profit of $6,090,000; Western Mining Corporation reported $15,954,000; General MotorsHolden's Ltd reported $14m; and Chrysler 
Australia Ltd reported $2,571,000. These facts shatter the deception of our opponents' claims of being sound managers of the economy. The facts show them to be the greatest unemployment producers of all time. Having created record unemployment they appeal to all that is worst in human nature and campaign against the jobless, labelling them bludgers. On top of that, the unemployed are being used by this Government as a part of its union bashing equipment. As far as I know no one in Australia has come up with scientific evidence on the relationship between an intangible, such as work incentives, and the way it is affected by the availability of welfare benefits. The matter has been examined by a number of writers and official bodies overseas. The general conclusion is that for other than a minimal number of people there is little data to suggest that there is a strong link between nonparticipation in the work force and the provision of welfare benefits. Certainly, in any society there are a few hangers-on but I can only feel disgust at this Government's deliberate campaign to label honest, solid citizens as bludgers. 
Griffith presently contains a wasted work force of 13,000. These are the men and women who at the end of January were registered for employment. They comprise one third of the unemployed in the whole of Brisbane. As just one example of their plight, in the West End area of Brisbane 1,336 people were registered for jobs but a total of only 20 registered jobs was available. Teenagers comprise 12 per cent of the work force in Queensland yet they account for 42 per cent of the unemployed. Police spokesmen, social workers and hospitals have reported an alarming growth in crime and youth suicide. They put the cause down to unemployment. We are told by church leaders that the consequences of the present intolerable numbers of registered jobless will be family breakdown, child abuse, mental and physical illness, alcoholism and, again, crime. Churches are concerned with the judgmental and even punitive approach taken towards the unemployed, whether it be by the Government and the policies it sets for the Public Service or whether it be in community attitudes which are fostered. Ben Chifley once said: 
It is the duty and responsibility of the community, and particularly those more fortunately placed, to see that our less fortunate fellow-citizens are protected from those shafts of fate which leave them helpless and without hope. That is the object for which we are striving. 
That is what the Labor movement and Labor governments since Federation have striven for. The Fisher Labor Government introduced invalid pensions for incapacitated and blind Australians. It brought in the age pension for women at 60 and a means test free maternity allowance. Curtin's Government set up a vocational training scheme to help invalids return to work.  His  Government introduced the widow's pension, allowances for the wives and children of pensioners, the funeral benefit and a social worker casework service. The most important and significant innovation among the host of innovations introduced by the Curtin Government was unemployment and sickness benefits. Under the Chifley Government each State undertook that treatment would be available in public wards of public hospitals free of charge without a means test.  His  Government liberalised the means test on pensions, extended allowances and introduced new benefits.  His  Government also established the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. As I mentioned earlier, the centre at Taringa was a Whitlam Labor Government addition to that service. 
I have mentioned these Labor initiatives not only to show the Labor movement's history of social sensitivity and achievements but also to demonstrate the incredible social inertia of nonLabor governments. This Government seems to concentrate on public relations stunts instead of practical relations schemes in its approach to the jobless. Last year this Government's Queensland counterpart gained big headlines by announcing that it was co-operating with the Australian Government to do a full scale breakdown of unemployment with a view to providing government initiatives. The idea seemed commendable. For days and days during the slow build-up to the State election, newspapers and television stations carried details. That was all we heard of the matter. 
Too little genuine co-operative effort between the Federal Government and the States is being made to combat the rising unemployment figures. In Queensland in the 1930s, Premier Forgan Smith mobilised the unemployed of the Depression to begin projects such as the Storey Bridge, Somerset Dam, Mackay Harbour and the first stage of the Queensland University. Many tradesmen started and completed their apprenticeships through these government initiatives. Today, projects of similar potential longterm benefit are languishing at the drawing board stage for want of government support while school leavers wait months to start careers and thousands more drift disillusioned from one unsatisfactory job hunt to another. 
One of Australia 's greatest defence hazards is the flood vulnerability of its northern and western highways and the deficiencies of its long distance rail systems. There are well identified flood points that sink under water year after year. Liberal-National Country Party Government policies based on freezing government activity have proved a dismal economic failure. Canberra should now be prepared to contribute, through the Defence vote, to the cost of a jobincentive road improvement program in the far north. 
Twenty-one years ago the then honourable member for Wannon, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his maiden speech talked of defence and of the importance of improving our roads. He waxed eloquent. He talked of Romans and military victories and the importance that the Romans placed on lines of communication. As Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Wannon, in his defence thinking, seems only to have got as far north as the Bowral line. I have travelled extensively for business reasons on these roads through the far north, the Channel country and the Northern Territory. I know from first-hand experience how quickly wet weather isolation takes control. Impassable roads are no answer to a crisis or an emergency when they are the only roads in existence. The benefits of a job-creating program to build all-weather highways would be immeasurable. Freight costs would be reduced, defence needs strengthened, communications improved and the neglected north would have some sign of interest from a government which is distant in every respect. A ready job force, including the often forgotten unemployed Aborigines of the Channel Country and the isolated outback is waiting. 
A monthly review of the employment situation published by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations shows that in Queensland alone, unemployment north of Mackay in the year to the end of January has risen by 2,780 to 16,004. In the same period, the number of job opportunities fell from 3 15 to 297. I urge the Government, rather than turn its back on the vicitms of the present depressed economy, to assist at all levels. 
In Queensland last week car registration fees were raised by 25 per cent on the basis that the money was needed by 45 local government authorities to maintain the jobs of road workers. I have great sympathy for anyone threatened by the loss of a job. But the idea of raising money for local government road works by hitting motorists with a 25 per cent hike in registration fees is like increasing the interest rates on home loan mortgages to pay for Housing Commission homes. Local government authorities should not need to go bankrupt or need to threaten to dismiss workers before governments come to their assistance. I was dismayed to read of the reasons that the Queensland Minister for Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  gave for his decision to get the money for road development costs from an extra slug on only a section of the community. As reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of 1 March,  Mr Hinze  said: 
There was no other way of getting it. I asked the Federal Transport Minister,  Mr Nixon,  to come here for talks but he was too busy and said there was nothing left in Canberra to give us. 

 Mr Hinze and the Federal Minister for Transport belong to the same political party, yet we have the amazing spectacle of the Federal Minister refusing to listen to the plight of his State counterpart on an issue that involves hundreds of jobs and the livelihood, obviously, of many more. It is, however, an example of the displacement of priorities which is symptomatic of the approach of both this Government and the Queensland State Government in times like the present. They strike a problem so they look for a new tax, or raise an old tax or create personal hardships by attempting to stop the flow of government money to socially deserving causes. Access to funds for jobs must be made available at all levels. In the case of local government authorities, that does not mean stop-gap schemes such as cutting grass, weeding gardens or painting fences, but worthwhile works which almost every local government body has on the drawing board ready to start immediately funds are available. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party, responsible for our highest unemployment since World War II, seem to have no policies to correct this situation. 
In closing my remarks, I should like to repeat the words contained in the fourth paragraph of the Governor-General 's Speech: 
After two years of hard work and substantial achievement, Australians now look to the future with new found confidence. 
If huge company losses and record unemployment are substantial achievements and show new found confidence, then God help Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Was a meeting held in the Minister's Canberra office on 14 March of this year with five members of his department to discuss new methods of funding Aboriginal programs? Did the meeting discuss a departmental memorandum on the future of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission? Did the Minister as a result of this discussion, instruct his Department to prepare a submission for Cabinet which would effectively abolish the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission? Did the instruction include the amalgamation of the Commission, Aboriginal land councils and Aboriginal enterprises functions into a new body directly responsible to the Minister? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that he said in his maiden speech on 22 February 1956 that he was not too young to fight for his 'faith and belief in the future of this great nation, in which the individual is, and always shall remain supreme ', and that 'the individual happiness of each citizen is, and must remain for ever, the first thought of our national leaders'? Does the honourable gentleman intend to act in conformity with these statements? If so, what does he intend doing for the individual happiness of the reported 425,000 citizens registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed? 
I refer the Minister for Industry and Commerce to a statement of 15 December last year in which it was said: 
All land purchases were made by the joint venture prior to  Mr Lynch  becoming a Minister in November 197S. 
Is it a fact that payments for this land were not completed until March 1976? Further, were profits amounting to about $120,000 on stage 2 and stage 3 of the project realised only after sales transactions were completed in July 1976? Was the Minister appointed Treasurer in November 1 975- before these transactions took place? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What financial support does the Government propose to give to the Aboriginal communities of Mornington Island and Aurukun to remove their dependence on the Government of Queensland? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a series of questions asked of him yesterday in reply to which he said that he would look into the matter and provide what information he could. I ask the Minister whether he has seen a report quoting the Acting State Manager of Australia Post in Queensland,  Mr Ken  Hathenden, in confirmation that the Australian Postal Commission bought land at Bundall in January last year for $280,000. Is it a fact, as stated by  Mr Hathenden  that this land had become available for purchase 'rather unexpectedly'? Did  Mr Hathenden  also say that he would leave this remark to the Minister to explain? 
-Has the Minister for Defence noted the public comment of the Head of his Department,  Sir Arthur  Tange, that it is normal for technical information not to be passed up to policy level? Does he endorse  Sir Arthur  Tange 's view that the important policy decision of the United States Government to acquire satellite terminal equipment for installations at the North West Cape base and its publicly expressed intention to build a satellite ground station there are merely matters for technical information for his Government? Does he regard it, as one would expect it to be properly regarded by the Government, as a matter of the highest policy content? Has he rebuked  Sir Arthur  Tange for his unwise and undesirable public assessment of what information  Sir Arthur  Tange believes should go to the Government? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Were approaches made to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation, Queensland,  Mr M.  V. Reithmuller, on 9 September 1977, and to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Viner,  on 12 October 1977, seeking sales tax exemption on a new reading device for the blind called the Optacon. 
If so, when will he take action to include Optacon with other goods for use by blind persons as set out on page 45, Item 123 of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
Is it a fact that the Housing Loan Tax Deductibility Scheme has been under investigation; if so, (a) who is carrying out the investigation, (b) what are its terms of reference and (c) when is it anticipated that its findings will be acted on by the Government and reported to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
Is there a progressively deteriorating standard of medical care at the Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, Queensland, brought about by the current restrictions on staffing and equipment. 
Did the Specialist Staff Association write to the Medical Superintendent at the hospital on 23 March 1978 stating that the specialist staff had voted unanimously to protest strongly against restrictive policies which place the lives of their patients at risk. 
If so, will he take immediate action to alleviate the problems existing at the hospital. 
I wish to devote the couple of minutes remaining to the honour and the memory of  Mr Gough  Whitlam who was one of the greatest Prime Ministers that this House has ever seen. I say this with sincerity: Gough Whitlam will go down in history as one of the greatest Prime Ministers who ever stepped into this House and who passed from it gracefully. Whilst I know that honourable members opposite fought very hard to get rid of Gough Whitlam, I can assure them that they were not responsible for getting rid of him; that was the doing of some Press barons. We all know who the Press barons are. We will not name them tonight. What they did to Gough Whitlam was criminal. It was tantamount to character assassination. We all well know that Gough Whitlam achieved for Australia and for Australians some of the greatest social security benefits ever known in Australia. 
In all seriousness, I feel that it is a shame that nobody from the other side of the House has taken the opportunity to honour Gough Whitlam. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have only a few seconds left to speak. I would have appreciated it if somebody from the other side had risen to his feet and honoured Gough Whitlam, because Government members know, as we on this side of the House do, that he was the greatest - 
-I would like to devote the short time available to me this evening to speaking about the trade union movement. The trade union movement has a history and a tradition of activity on behalf of organised workers in Australia which is unequalled by any other organisation in the Commonwealth. The movement does not condone useless strikes and does not inflict unnecessary hardships on its members. Industrial disputes represent only a small item of trade union activity. But unfortunately it is that item which receives wide press publicity while all other activities of the trade union movement pass without recognition. 
On any given day, the trade union movement, negotiating in industrial disputes, solves thousands of problems on behalf of its members. I mention social injustices, wage injustices such as the incorrect payment of wages, victimisationwhich all honourable members are well aware happens in Queensland- unjust sackings and the finding of employment for many members in their particular trades. The last function I have just mentioned is almost impossible to achieve these days. I might add that it looks like being impossible in the not too distant future. The trade union movement contributes to countless charities. Its officers and members are continually engaged in community services. They sit on committees- more often than not they are unpaid for this- which deal with employeremployee relations and on countless other organisations in the community that are interested in the social and economic welfare of our society. The Government readily admits that many of its most important committees are unable to function without the full support and co-operation of the trade union movement. 
The trade union movement will not and cannot accept restrictions upon its right to involve itself in the political life of the community. As the organised strength of the lower and middle income workers, trade unions have an obligation to exercise their civic responsibilities. The standard of living of the Australian people depends upon the strong demands of the trade unions for improved conditions in social services, education, housing and a host of other areas. Trade unions initiate the demands, and they need an Australian Labor Party government to implement them. 
Let us consider our archaic social services and the way in which we lag behind other countries such as countries in America and Europe. Australian workers are expected to live on a pittance upon retirement after 50 years of service. No member of this House can deny that a worker is entitled to a retirement allowance much higher than that which he receives after such a period of faithful and loyal service. Pensioners would not be receiving anywhere near the amount of benefit they receive today had Australia not had a Labor Government in office for the three years between 1972 and 1975. Surely no honourable member would challenge the right of the trade union movement to interest itself in these matters. 
We all can remember when the Government used to attack the trade union movement for its stand on apartheid. History proved that the trade union movement was right in relation to apartheid. I think history proved that also to an honourable senator. History has proved also that the trade union movement was right in its stand in opposing shipments of pig iron to Japan, in its support of independence for Indonesia and in its stand in opposing the phoney war in Vietnam. The Australian Labor Party is proud of its association with the trade union movement. I hope that while I am a member of this House I will be able to work to ensure a strengthening of the great ties that exist between the Australian Labor Party and that most important section of the working class, the trade union movement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I want to deal this afternoon with two aspects of the Fraser Budget. Firstly, I shall deal with the general thought- or thoughtlessness- behind the Government's ruinous economic policy. Secondly, I shall concern myself with the specific implications of the Fraser Budget for the electors of Griffith. The Budget seems to me to represent the most sustained and concentrated attempt by this Government to inflict on the country the shallow conviction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that life is not meant to be easy. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who has that characteristic of blind child-like and obsessive devotion to his master, which is so noticeable in a loyal servant, seems to be deliberately running Australia into the ground in order to prove the Prime Minister's point. In this country we have a government of time-serving politicians who crawl, grovel, fawn, kowtow and pander to their lord and master in order to secure his patronage.  His  thoughts become their thoughts, his tastes their tastes, his policies their policies and his obsessions become their obsessions. 
Australia has an isolationist government. It is isolating itself from the cold and unpalatable facts. It is trying to isolate itself from reality and from the people it is supposed to govern. Those people are entitled to know why this deceitful Government which, in the words of its Prime Minister, was committed to retaining Medibank, has now abolished it. Why has this hypocritical Government which boasted of the family allowance plan which in the words of the Prime Minister was the greatest social reform in recent history, attempted to emasculate the family allowance even to the point of plundering pocket money from paper boys and baby sitters? Why has this Government which, in the words of the Prime Minister before the last election, was pledged to give us all a fistful of fivers, is now just giving us the fist? In fact it has imposed a retrospective tax surcharge. How does the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  given the depth of his feelings on retrospectivity, feel about that? 
The people of Australia are entitled to know why this callous and indifferent Governmentthe Prime Minister, also before the last election, promised that we would see a steady and sustained drop in unemployment this year- is presently presiding over record unemployment and making not the slightest gesture of relief or even sympathy for the unemployed. Instead it is actively engaged in a vicious tactical campaign to convince the rest of the working electorate that the unemployed are out of work of their own accord and deserve no sympathy. Where is that famous Fraser Presbyterian charity and sense of compassion which so moved the Fraser clan during the Depression that they would travel far and wide in their limousines around Melbourne's parks and gardens distributing arrowroot biscuits to the unemployed? Now there is not even an arrowroot for the unemployed. 
This is a Budget of shattered dreams and broken promises. It is the product of a mean, spiteful and malicious mind. The cynicalrationale on which this whole blatant exercise in vindictiveness rests is the Prime Minister's abiding belief in the short memory of the Australian electorate. The cry from the Liberal and National Country parties last year was for three more years. That cry now rings like a death knell in the ears of the unemployed, the aged, the infirm, the handicapped, migrants and other disadvantaged groups in our society. The Prime Minister is gambling with the Government's bloated stock of marginal seats on his theory that the electorate, if delivered a solid blow early in a government 's term will either recover or be unconscious by the end of the Government's term. 
Give people hell now and before the next election throw them a scrap- some more breakable promises- and they will think that they have never had it so good. That is the Government's modus operandi. It is crude Liberal politics. 
I make this point: It is well known that this is the Prime Minister's Budget with only the Treasurer's signature to it. The Prime Minister, whose Oxford education was bought rather than earned disdains talent. He likes to keep all competition at hatchet's length. It is the Prime Minister's Budget from ignominious start to inglorious finish. The sins of this Budget are as much sins of omission as of commission. 
Despite the fact that there is a Treasury projection for growth in unemployment there is absolutely no measure to relieve it. If the unemployed seek reassurance that their plight will not go unnoticed, then I suggest that they look at the alternative Budget proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  They will find no comfort in the words of the Prime Minister, for it has been proven that on the rare occasions when he expresses optimism about the unemployment conditions he speaks with a forked tongue. 
Yet another omission in this sinful Budget is the failure of the Prime Minister to take account of the potentially most critical issue facing the Australian economy and Australian society, namely, computerisation. This country has begun to witness the sort of industrial action that will be taken to protect jobs from automation and computerisation. There is already grave disquiet in the newspaper industry as the spectre of computerisation looms with the introduction of visual display terminals. Computerisation is not new and we should not respond to it by adopting the attitude of the ostrich with its head buried deep in the sand. 
The Prime Minister will not be able to say to every union which reacts as did the Australian Telecommunication Employees Association to computerisation: 'You must not win; you cannot win'. The Prime Minister might pride himself on being a strong man- a Samson- but he might well remember that Samson brought down the temple and he vanished with it. He can ride roughshod over his Cabinet, his Party, his Government and the people of his country for only so long. None of us can afford to insulate ourselves from the chilling prospect of redundancy through computerisation. It is commendable that the Government should, although somewhat belatedly, take up Bob Hawke 's suggestion for an inquiry into the effects of computer technology advances. They portend a real social and economic revolution of the same or greater proportions than the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century. 
Twenty thousand people in my electorate- 30 per cent of the number of voters in Griffith- are receiving age, wives, invalid, supporting parents and widows pensions. That figure represents the highest number of pensioners in any Federal electorate in Queensland. Griffith alone has 15,000 age pensioners. I know from their calls to my office that they feel cheated with this Budget. Once-yearly adjustments to pensions and benefits mean 16 months delays in catching up with the cost of living. It is criminal negligence. A means test has been re-introduced for pensioners over 70. Politics has been brought back to pensions. The associations for handicapped people are enraged by the Government's attempts to tax those people to the point where their disabilities or afflictions are secondary to their financial burdens. The figures on unemployment in the general area of the Griffith electorate are of enormous proportions- intolerable proportions. A whole generation is growing up uncertain of finding work once it has completed its schooling and studies. Those people who are lucky enough to find a job are unable to look to the future for the hope of security of employment. Any reduction in the unemployment figures has been achieved by the savage pruning of employment and despite, not because of, government policy. 
I accuse the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations of covering up the real incidence of unemployment. The August figures for unemployment mean only that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is wielding the axe in her Department in order to ease the embarrassment of the disastrous record of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Fraser Government generally. Constant personal contact in my electorate with cases of discrimination, abuse and obstruction by the Department in issuing unemployment benefit payments leads me to conclude that this callous departmental attitude is government policy. This Department has introduced deliberately narrow requirements for identification of those people seeking social security benefits. I am sure that no honourable member who keeps in touch with his electorate office would deny that problems related to petty bureaucratic nit-picking in the Department of Social Security emerge frequently in the daily routine of electorate staff as they help to untangle bureaucratic tape and humbug. Every obstacle, every trick, which can be used to restrict the number of people receiving benefits is tried. No matter how much the Government attempts to obfuscate or dissemble, the real social implications of its disastrous and callous-minded policies will not go away. 
In my electorate almost two out of every 10 school leavers are out of work. In many cases they have been out of work for over a year. In the Brisbane metropolitan area unemployment has increased by 35 per cent on the figure for last year. There is a high concentration of migrant groups in the Griffith electorate and figures indicate that they are particularly disadvantaged. Over 20 per cent of the sons and daughters of these migrants cannot find work. The Treasurer has admitted that the sectors of the economy most responsible for generating employment are also the most reliant on public sector stimulation. For instance, this is the case with the housing and building industry. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has proposed a scheme for stimulation which would boost Australian home building by 33,000 units to 125,000 units over the next 12 months. Like so many proposals suggested by the Opposition, which are readily available to the Government, it is simply effected. Half of the scheme's costing could be obtained by reducing the percentage of assets which savings banks are required to hold with the Reserve Bank from 7.5 per cent to 5 per cent, thereby releasing some $3 50m. A national housing program is in no way a handout. Every cent invested in such a housing program is eventually returned in full and at a reasonable rate of interest. 
In closing, I might return to the economic and philosophical foundations of the Fraser Budget. I might, that is, if I could find any economic or philosophical foundations for this Budget. All that underlies the heinous course on which this Government has set Australia is a narrow minded, class conscious cynicism, a completely ignorant and obsessive commitment to eighteenth century beliefs and a fatal underestimation of the Australian public that they will be willing to cop it. This Budget really represents the death of a lucky country. As well, it is my belief that it may also represent an end to this Government which is now in control of the treasury bench. 
I take this opportunity to make a simple plea- a plea for a better deal for Australia's blind people. A recent poster portrayed two people, one sighted and the other non-sighted, standing in front of a country landscape. Before one were trees, fields and a river and sky overhead; before the other was nothing but a big black square. I assure honourable members that a big black square does not represent all the sensations of place and all the sensitivities of the inner eye of imagination and memory that are so great a part of the blind person's awareness. While such misrepresentation may plunge the hand of pity deeper into the pockets of donors, it is destructive to the dignity and independence of the blind person, and dangerous to the state of mind of any person who subsequently finds himself confronted with the loss or impairment of his own sight. Blind people have a high work ethic. They are painstaking in study and training because it is essential to their dignity as well as to their ability to hold a job. They are stable, not itinerant, workers. Yet, where there is equal job training, there is often not equal job interview opportunity. Because they do not respond to our smile, our gesture or to words written down or printed, and because their faces do not easily show their thoughts and feelings, they may present something of an enigma to those who come in contact with them. 
It is their first lesson in self-help that they must initiate sound and touch as terms of communication. I emphasise the word 'touch ' because this is what my plea for the blind people in Australia is all about. A guidance officer attached to the Narbethong School for Visually Handicapped Children and the Queensland Training and Placement Centre for the Blind has made representations to me on behalf of many blind persons at his centre. The people are very anxious to have the Optacon placed on the list of goods for use by blind persons as set out under item 123 on  page 45 of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1973. The Optaconoptical, tactile conversion- is looked upon by Queensland educators of the totally blind as having such potential and value to the independence and practical lifestyle of the blind individual that, along with Braille reading, it has become an essential part of the schooling of every totally blind child with the manipulative ability to use it. Recently the Queensland Education Department has seen fit to run courses for the training of blind adults. The courses consist of 60-plus hours of intensive training on a one to one teacher-pupil basis. I have the relevant literature explaining not only the mechanics of the Optacon machine but also the many uses to which it can be put. I seek leave of the House to have the two pages of literature incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SALISBURY &amp; CHURCHILL STS 
BURANDA 4102 QUEENSLAND 
Telephone: 3917711 
PRINCIPAL:  Mr E.  B. Searle 
Com. A.Ed., A.A.U.Q., 
D.A.N.Z.A.T.V.H., L.A.A.T.D. 
NARBETHONG 
School for Visually Handicapped Children 
Optacon- Tactile reading machine for blind people 
The Optacon is a portable reading device which blind people may be trained to use to read directly from the printed page. The machine weighs approximately two kilograms and is the size of a portable tape recorder. The device contains a camera which is the size of a pocket knife and which can be moved along the printed page with the aid of rollers underneath. This camera has a magnification lens which can decrease or increase the size of the print underneath it. The basic principle of the Optacon is fairly simple. One hundred and forty-four ( 144) photoelectric cells in the retina' of the camera transmit impulses to one hundred and forty-four (144) piezo electric reeds in the tactile array- a grid which is housed in the Optacon and upon which the Optacon reader rests his index reading finger. 
When the image underneath the camera is focused onto the retina the cells which 'see' part of the letter shape signal their corresponding reeds of 'pins' to vibrate. Thus the Optacon reader feels a vibrating image on the tactile array which corresponds exactly to the shape of the letter underneath the camera. The shape felt has nothing whatsoever to do with Braille. Thus, some blind persons can be trained to read print with this device. The machine can cope with a variety of print sizes and styles; however, extremely large print or ornate styles are difficult to recognise. However, most sizes and styles used in normal reading situations are easily read with the Optacon. 
In addition, the machine, which costs approximately $U.S.3,000, has several accessories which can be purchased to aid blind persons in job situations. A computer lens module can be attached to the retina and will enable the blind user to read the print on cathode ray tube displays such as those used by computer programmers. A magnifier lens module can be used to read extremely small print such as is used in telephone books, or dictionaries or in legal documents. A typewriter lens module can be used by blind typists to proof-read letters or fill in forms while the paper is still in the typewriter, and a calculator lens module can be used to read the print on pocket calculators. 
Optacons are used in many ways by blind individuals. Personal correspondence, bills, bank statements, etc. can be read with the Optacon, making a blind person's life more private. Students can use the Optacon for material not available in Braille-professional journals, new textbooks, 'handouts', etc. Housewives can read recipes, lables on cans, directions on packaged mixes etc. The accessories mentioned aid in job-related activities. Although invented only six (6) years ago, the number of users in the United States now totals well over 1 , 000 and more and more users are being found for the machine by the blind people who have been trained to read with it. 
Reading speeds up to 90 words a minute have been reached, but the average reading speed is around 40 words a minute. To most blind users, reading speed is the least important consideration. What is important to them is the amount of printed material which was once closed to them and is now available. 
In order to use the Optacon, blind people must be trained on a one-to-one basis by a trained Optacon teacher. 
Prior to training, it is essential that an assessment of the person seeking training be undertaken. Such assessment should include motivation to learn, tactile skills, possibility of obtaining an Optacon and purposes for which the Optacon can be used. Not all blind people will want to or will be able to learn to use the Optacon. 
The training programme extends for fifty (SO) hours. Such programmes are conducted in Queensland free of charge at Narbethong, School for Visually Handicapped Children, Churchill and Salisbury Streets, Buranda, 4102 and the Queensland Training and Placement Centre for the Blind, Gowrie Street, Annerley. Following successful completion of a course, a certificate is awarded. It is not possible for a blind person to use the machine without having been first trained as described above. 
Some seven (7) blind people in Queensland are certified as trained to use the Optacon while others are currently undertaking training courses. 
I doubt that I could explain any more clearly than the literature the kind of freedom, which you and I take so much for granted, that the Optacon gives to the blind person. The literature explains the machine's usefulness and the significance that educators of the blind put upon the machine. As well, it refers to the machine's expense and the time being put into the training of so many individuals who hope eventually to purchase their own equipment. The price of the Optacon is approximately $2,800 and the sales tax of 15 per cent means about $400 to a blind person for an already extremely expensive piece of equipment that he has to purchase. This imposition on the blind people of Australia is heartless and mean. However, it is typical of the callous indifference of this Government that no favourable consideration was given in the pre-Budget deliberations of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to tax exemption of the Optacon for blind people. How can we expect the 
Treasurer or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to show compassion and understanding to the blind when they are busy plundering the piggy banks of paper boys, when they are exploring new and devious ways of squeezing State governments dry, harassing the sick and indigent, dumping the unemployed, milking the pensioners, or generally making life hell for all Australians- or at least not making life easy. In answering my question on notice No. 1308 the Treasurer said: 
The question of exempting the Optacon will be considered ... in the course of the Government's preBudget deliberations. 
Order! The honourable  member's time  has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Under what policy and machinery guidelines do officers of the Department of Social Security determine the existence of a domestic arrangement between, among, or involving recipients of single rate welfare benefits or pensions. 
In cases where a domestic arrangement is said to exist, does the Department either terminate payment of benefits or reduce benefits to half the applicable married rate. 
I refer the Minister for Defence to his Department's reported issue of a certificate of expediency for the lease of the new IBM computer. Is it a fact that his Department had previously stated that it would call tenders for this new computer? Are competitive and compatible computers available from at least two companies other than IBM? Could the Minister explain why Treasury regulations on tenders were disregarded in this case? 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter concerning the education of migrant adults and children in Brisbane. In doing so, I request the Government to give favourable consideration to the acquisition of more space for the facilities used for migrant education in Brisbane. Presently those facilities for migrant education which happen to be in my electorate are located on the first and second floors of Phoenix House, Adelaide Street, Brisbane. They have been at those premises since September 1973 and, very simply, they have outgrown their offices. Migrant education officers have sought additional space for some time. I understand that they want one more floor in the building. Phoenix House has 13 floors, seven of which are vacant at the present time. The agents for Grace Church Holdings, the lessee of the property, have told me that they have set aside one floor in anticipation of extension of the migrant education facilities. 
I understand that the Department pf Administrative Services has been fiddling around for over two years with lease documents for the first and second floors and, because of the effect of contractionary government policies on the acquisition of Commonwealth property, is unlikely at the moment to take over another floor. It is worth noting that at one stage the Government was considering the possibility of taking over the whole building. Although the present cost to the Government of leasing the floor would be $4.20 per square metre, I am led to believe that the Government might be able to secure the space for an amount substantially less than that. The amount is negotiable and I would suspect that, with most of the building still vacant, the bargaining edge would be on the Government's side. 
Migrant education includes the education of adults as well as the preparation of their children for primary and high schools. The facilities are so poor at the moment that the children have to be dispersed around the schools in the Brisbane area, thereby creating an intolerable burden in regard to co-ordination. To cater for the needs of migrants the facilities should be located in the one space. With empty unused space all around them, how can people working in crowded, inadequate circumstances, but nevertheless committed to what they are doing, want anything else but more room? Surely that is not too much to ask. 
I am told that the Liberal Party's Education Committee chaired by  Senator Kathy  Martin will be conducting a fact finding tour around Australia looking at Aboriginal and migrant education. On 1 and 2 November, I believe that Committee will be in Brisbane. I earnestly hope that it will support the proposal to extend migrant education facilities at Phoenix House, that it will acknowledge the real need for more capital expenditure in the area of migrant education and that it will help make available two demountables for the migrant education facilities at Corinda- which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore),  who is presently overseas. I am sure that, were the honourable member here tonight, he would join me in my plea for a better deal for migrant education in Brisbane. I am also sure that honourable members from both sides of the chamber understand the urgent need for migration education, not only in my electorate of Griffith but also throughout Australia. I trust that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will assist the migrant education officers in Brisbane by granting them the extra space they require. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 August 1 978: 
1 ) Will he release the information and recommendations contained in the Report of the Foreign Investment Review Board relating to the proposals for the development of 8,094 hectares of coastal land at Yeppoon, via Rockhampton, Queensland, by the Japanese developer,  Mr Iwasaki. 
2 ) Will he inform the Parliament what undertakings were given by  Mr Iwasaki  's representatives concerning the fulfilment of conditions set by the Treasurer and designed to provide opportunities for Australian involvement in the tourist development planned by  Mr Iwasaki. 
-We can thank our cartoonists for the opportunity to reflect humorously on what otherwise would be some of the most scandalous and absurd events in our country and in the world. The cartoonists in turn can thank this Government more than any other in the history of Australia for producing the scandal and the adversities which they so love to regale and lampoon. The value of a cartoon, apart from an appreciation of its wit, lies in its ability to capture a sentiment, sometimes a whole argument, in a few well-drawn lines and several well-chosen words. Surely one of the most pithy comments on the Government's intention to introduce a departure tax appeared two days after the Budget Speech in a cartoon in the  Age  where the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is depicted at a news conference explaining his fears that because of the Budget's severity everyone will flee the country and so, he says, a tax was put on that too. Judging from experience, the Treasurer's motives in introducing such a tax may in fact be no less ignoble than just that. 
The Opposition has indicated that it does not oppose a proposal for a tax of this nature. With a revenue return estimated at upwards of $ 1 5m for the current financial year the imposition of a $ 10 departure tax has caused only a ripple of concern from people generally in the tourist industry as a whole. However, there are certain aspects in regard to collecting the departure tax which the Government at present is trying to sort out with travel agents and airline companies. If the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has to set up a special office to collect the departure tax quite a considerable amount of the tax collected would be eaten up in overheads. So it is not hard for honourable members to understand why the Government would like tourist agents and airline companies to have the responsibility of collecting its tax. In this case I agree with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and I feel that it would be quite in order for overseas airline companies to collect that tax for the Government. 
There has been talk of reduced air fares for overseas travellers. In fact if the Government is to receive a cut in air fares and if the reduction in air fares increases the number of outbound tourists, as is expected, and thereby increases the amount of tax returning to the Government, this departure tax may be just the thing to give a much needed impetus to get the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and his Government moving to secure an agreement on a reduction in air fares before the millenium. The Opposition's objection, however, as has been very capably outlined by my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  is as into which coffers this money will find its way. The Government intends the revenue raised by this tax to flow directly into general revenue. If there is any sense of fairness in the Government or any shame felt for its culpable inactivity and complacency in the affairs of the tourist industry, the Government would ensure that the $15m- I understand that it could be somewhat more than this figure- should be channelled back into tourism. The Government should render unto Caesar what is Caesar's- it should return to tourists what it has taken from tourists. 
Coming from Queensland, I am keenly aware of the enormous potential which exists in Australia for the development of international tourist facilities. Queensland's attractions alone would be enough to sustain tourist growth. With the tropical rain forests of the north, the intriguing Channel Country of the outback, the sunny decadence of the Gold Coast, the big game fishing off Cairns and, of course, the natural splendours of the Great Barrier Reef, Queensland like a magnet draws tourists from all corners of the globe. 
It is a great place. But these natural resources and the industry developed around them are no more independent of reliance on government policy and support than the manufacturing industry, the mining industry or the rural industry. For too long the tourist industry has had to fight the ignorance of politicians and the intransigence and shortsightedness of dogmatic officials in the Treasury. 
A few facts on features of the industry seem in order. In my State the tourist industry is regarded as the third largest industry employing approximately 10 per cent of the work force. As an industry it is one of the most stable units in the economy. It is not subject to the wide price fluctuations experienced in so many other industries. For example, in Mackay when the sugar industry was beset by problems arising from world price instability it was the tourist dollar which kept Mackay alive. It was in a time of adversity that this potential was realised. Surely we do not have to wait for recessions to strike before we can acknowledge the value of our more stable industries. As well as being relatively stable the industry is labour intensive and has an enormous role to play in decentralisation. These and other simple verities ought not to be new to honourable members. Judging, however, from the Government's sorry record in this area I am inclined to think that this must be news to it. With Australia's most spectacular attractions being isolated either in the country's barren interior or its far north the cost of getting there and of providing facilities of an international standard are two paramount considerations in which the Government can assist. The honourable member for Robertson has in the past suggested allowing Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to fly regionally in the South Pacific and South East Asian areas and to allow Qantas Airways Ltd to stop in Alice Springs, Cairns, Townsviile or Hobart. That may sound like unspeakable hearsay in the board rooms of Ansett and Qantas, but the clear division between international and national flights is not inviolable and certainly not conducive to the growth of the tourist industry. If governments can arrive at bipartite profit and risk-sharing airline agreements the problems associated with extending such agreements to embrace a third airline- in this case Qantas- should certainly not be insurmountable. 
The role of this Government in tourism has been miserably underplayed in real terms. The Budget allocation for the Australian Tourist Commission is below the 1975-76 figure. In the last two years of the Labor Government over $5m was spent on the development of tourist attractions, low cost accommodation or tourist development loans. In these respects nothing has been offered by this Government. The Government should give serious consideration to extending assistance to local authorities in tourist areas where it is the local ratepayer who, through his rates, is providing facilities which are used by tourists. It should also again consider using Australian National Line ships for winter-time cruises in north Queensland waters. As well, it would merit attention for the Government to review, with the purpose in mind of implementing, the popular European scheme of tourist train travel on Eurail or student rail travel passes. An allowance for depreciation of tourist buildings is one idea to which the Opposition has attached itself with an expression of sincere interest. The Government, meanwhile, exhibits typical indifference. All these areas are ones in which the Government should get involved. Indeed, involvement ought to include government participation in the promotion and development of facilities to cater for tourists, especially in underdeveloped spots; for instance, the Carnarvon National Park. This sort of active involvement is undertaken in Canada and the United States of America on a large scale. Often private enterprise, or perhaps I should say private interests, follow government enterprises and initiatives once private interests can see for themselves the viability of these developments. I believe that government involvement is a beneficial and vital adjunct to mature and reasoned promotion of our tourist features. Private development has all too often been dazzled by the opportunity for quick returns on its investment, losing sight of the fact that the industry itself has a vested interest in ensuring the protection of the environment. The Gold Coast of Queensland is, I regret, an example of this mindless, uncoordinated and avaricious exploitation. The Government must take note how the asphalt jungle at Surfers Paradise has destroyed the natural phenomenon of the once great Gold Coast of Queensland. Conservation and tourist promotion are not incompatible goals. They can co-exist. 
There is another aspect of the departure tax which I believe warrants attention. While I have been encouraging the Government to realise the potential of the tourist industry the Treasury, which has often considered tourism a luxury area, should now be viewing it as a lucrative source of additional revenue. The departure tax to be imposed in Australia is higher than that imposed in comparable countries. The United States of America imposes a $US3 departure tax; Hong Kong imposes a $A3 tax for adults and a $A1 tax for children; Israel a $5.70 tax; Singapore a $4 tax; Malaysia a $2 tax; and the New Hebrides imposes a $2 tax. We must certainly never impose a departure tax of the severity imposed by the New Zealand Government. It imposes a departure tax on outward bound tourists amounting to 10 per cent of their international fare. In addition, we must never be tempted by spurious Treasury arguments to impose a bed tax or a value added tax such as apply in Great Britain. I understand that many spokespersons in the tourist industry are deeply concerned that the departure tax could be the first step towards such levies on tourist services. 
The Australian tourist industry waits for a sincere statement of commitment and support from this Government that the $10 departure tax will be channelled back into tourism. The Australian tourist industry waits, but it knows better than to wait with baited breath. 
-I have listened with interest as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  spelt out in great detail the wonders and magnificence of the Great Barrier Reef. I sincerely hope that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  takes note of his remarks and is aware of the importance of the 
Great Barrier Reef. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Amendment Bill amends the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1975. For the most part it covers legislative machinery matters. It is perfectly reasonable that the Government has decided to tidy up one or two loose ends or anomalies in the 1975 Act. As my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has already informed the House, the Opposition supports those changes to the Act which will ensure, firstly, that the representative of the Great Barrier Reef Park Authority on the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee will remain a member of the Authority; secondly, that the representative's status is that of a direct appointee; and, thirdly, that the Authority's representative on the Committee is a member or an acting member of the Authority. 
Further, we acknowledge the legal requirement for delineation of the northern boundaries and precincts of the Great Barrier Reef. My colleague also referred to those matters relating to the Barrier Reef which cause consternation to the Opposition. We have, lying off the coast of Queensland, over one million hectares of natural miracle. The reef is a universal asset. It is a complex system consisting literally of hundreds of thousands of independent marine organisms. It will come as no revelation to any honourable member when I say that this, the world 's greatest coral reef, is of interest and fascination to tourists, conservationists and scientists alike. Not only does the Reef attract tourists from all over the world, but also support to preserve it comes from every corner of the globe. Scientists are only beginning to discover the invaluable treasures of the Reef. There are few authoritative ecological studies even of one single sub-system such as the fish on the corals of the Reef, let alone the reef as a whole. 
However, the Great Barrier Reef has faced severe threats and menaces. The greatest threat comes not from the elements or organisms of nature but from man and specifically from the misguided maladministration of that strange man from Kingaroy, the Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen. Forget about the crown of thorns starfish, for all the extensive damage it has created on the Reef. The Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, if given half a chance, would wreak more havoc than the crown of thorns could ever do. I do not propose to catalogue the manifold sins and the environmental wickedness of the Bjelke-Peterson Government. But let me say this: If the commitment of this Government is to return Bjelke-Petersen control of the three-mile off-shore zone, it is the Barrier 
Reef which will be endangered. This happens to be a case of the world's greatest wonder threatened by Australia's gravest blunder. 
There is an element of this amendment Bill which I quite honestly find puzzling and disconcerting. The Government intends to widen the field of qualifications and experience which are necessary for a Government nominee to be installed in the position of permanent  chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The requisite qualifications will be the same for the permanent  chairman  as for the two part-time members of the Authority. The former acting  chairman  of the Authority,  Dr McMichael,  is a universally admired and acknowledged conservation biologist with extensive experience in national parks administration. He certainly had the support of the Australian Conservation Foundation. 

 Who's Who for 1977 shows that  Dr McMichael  has been vice-president of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources since 1975, secretary of the Department of Environment from 1973 to 1975,  president  of the River Murray Commission for the same period and director of the Australian Conservation Foundation from 1967 to 1968.  Dr McMichael  earned his Ph.D at Harvard and has written widely on marine subjects. He has since gone to greener pastures as Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs and in doing so he has left something of a vacuum. I would imagine that filling  Dr McMichael  's shoes would be a challenge but I find it difficult to believe that the job of securing an adequate eminent replacement with qualifications and experience in terms expressed in the existing Act is so vexing that the Government is compelled to broaden those terms by legislation to enable it to install someone it may already have in mind. 
It has been brought to my attention that the Government in fact has decided on who is to be permanent  chairman  of the Authority. If the Government has someone in mind for the chairmanship, if by legislation it is going to tailor requirements for that position to its anonymous nominee for the chairmanship- that is, setting the qualifications to suit the man rather than setting the man to suit the qualifications- let the Government show its hand. If it refuses to do this, conservationists are liable to suspect that the Government is fiddling the requirements of the job in order to install a permanent  chairman  who may or may not be acceptable to conservationists and to the Australian Conservation Foundation but who may be acceptable to this Government and to the Government of Joh Bjelke-Petersen in 
Queensland. This is a suspicion I am sure the Government would not want to create. 
The issue is sufficiently serious to warrant complete Government frankness because if the Government is determined to hand over the three-mile off-shore zone to the Premier of Queensland the question of who runs the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and who has to deal with the likely incursions into the area by the Petersen Government becomes significant and, indeed, crucial. Already the marine park is unrealistically confined in its control of the Reef because the Park Authority 's jurisdiction extends only up to the shallow water surrounding each island in the Reef. The developments and the industrial complexes are not located on the water but on the islands and along the coast. It is the developments and the industrial complexes that represent potential threats to the Reef. 
Contractions of the marine park by three miles around the coastline and around each island in the reef would severely restrict the effectiveness of conservation and protection policies adopted by the Park Authority. A map of the Marine Park would end up looking like Swiss cheese and Joh Bjelke-Petersen would have one of a hundred holes into which to crawl. The honourable member for Robertson has alluded to the Petersen Government's callous indifference to matters of the environment. We know that Government supporters have short memories, but surely they can recall the inflexible attitude of the Premier on oil drilling on the Reef. The stance of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and its  chairman  is of enormous consequence to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  if he is to get his way in respect of 'oil rigging the reef. As we know, the findings of the royal commission into petroleum drilling in the reef were inconclusive. The  chairman  of the royal commission found that drilling preferably should be postponed while the other two commissioners thought drilling permissible in certain areas. Obviously educated opinion is divided on drilling and just as obviously it matters greatly to the Premier of Queensland which side of the issue the head of the Barrier Reef park favours. One of the parttime members of the Authority is elected by the Queensland Government. At present that member is  Mr S.  Schubert, the CoordinatorGeneral of Queensland. The other member is  Dr J.  Baker. 
The conservationists and scientists of the world are watching the Barrier Reef and its management. National parks in this country are relatively new; national marine parks are even newer. They have a unique problem and require special and specialised attention. It is no good having in this managerial position and in this sensitive situation second rate or second best or part-time managers or bureaucrats whose experience and qualifications are only tenuously related to the needs of the Reef.  Dr McMichael  set a standard. He gained wide approval among those whose first and foremost commitment was to the preservation of the Reef, not its exploitation. Professionals not puppets are required in this situation. 
I believe the Opposition amendment is an effective compromise requiring of the permanent chairman qualifications in an area suited to the functions of the Park Authority. Why settle for anything less? Why not the best? It is simply not good enough for a government to choose someone for a position, find he does not have the qualifications which, by law, he must and then set about changing the law and altering those qualifications to enable him to go ahead with its scheme. Of course that is not the right approach. But it is common practice for this Government; it is par for the course. Apparently the Government believes that if one cannot win the game one should go and change the rules. I call on the Minister to front up and clear up what the Government is proposing to do. 
I would like to speak on a matter which I, as a Queenslander, consider important. I represent many citizens who could be described as affluent. They have asked me to raise a matter which is of very great interest to them because they, like honourable members opposite, are interested in buying properties in Queensland. As a result of the matters raised in this House today, I sat down this afternoon and attempted to do a few simple sums. I do not consider myself to be a mathematician. If the figures I am about to quote are wrong I am sure that I will be corrected by a Minister in this House. I have listened to some of my fellow members on this side of the House, particularly the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  If an ordinary resident of Queensland were to borrow $95,000, $16,000 from a bank and $79,000 from an insurance company, I am told that at normal bank interest the repayments of principal and interest on the bank loan within a term of five years would be approximately $1 10 a week. The normal rate of interest charged by an insurance company is 1214 per cent but from a Queensland insurance company, for the benefit of Queenslanders, money may be borrowed at 11? per cent. Because it is such a good insurance company - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to his reply to a recent question to him concerning family trusts, in which he referred to the need to safeguard the interests of one's children and family. Since business assets and property held in the name of the husband will be able to pass within the family free of federal estate duty, could the Prime Minister explain to this House what other benefit, apart from the minimisation or avoidance of income tax, is provided by a family trust? 
-Back bench members on both sides of this House have many important duties to perform in their various electorates. Many problems are attended to on any given day on behalf of their constituents. I am of the opinion that the Department of Social Security is deliberately hindering members in the performance of their duties. It is a direct result of this Department's mean economic policies and its punitive attitude to those people who are adversely affected by those policies that the average back bench member is required to spend so much of his time acting as a go-between on behalf of his constituents with the Department of Social Security or explaining as best he can the policies of that Department to sorely aggrieved constituents. Although government policies for the most part have been responsible for sending large numbers of the population to join dole queues and welfare lines, the Government has consistently avoided or denied its responsibility for caring for these people, preferring instead to capitalise on their misfortunes and victimise them by referring to them as dole bludgers or welfare fat cats. 
Many employees of the Department of Social Security owe their inspired ignorance to this sort of government irresponsibility and insensitivity. Recently in the course of handling a constituent's social security problem I had the occasion to talk to a departmental officer whose job, I believe, is to handle problems of this nature. The officer created what apparently was misapprehension about what the Department of Social Security is supposed to do. My unbureaucratic mind had supposedly misconstrued the proper bureaucratic function and purpose of the Department. He said: 'You know, we are not here to assist people on the basis of need. I just want to make it clear from the start that social security payments have nothing to do with need. There is no mention of need in the Social Security Act.' He suggested that it was the role of members of this House to make that point clear to the public. 
The problem that I had raised concerned a man who had applied for unemployment benefit eight weeks ago. That man had a wife and two children who had not received the benefit because they were living on several acres- unfilled acreage- so that his case had to be investigated. Eight weeks after registering the inspector had still not shown up. What really is abhorrent is not so much the Department's lack of diligence in this matter as its attitude that was clearly demonstrated by this departmental officer. I do not believe that it is the opinion of a lone individual in the Department. I think in fact that there is an attitude of indifference throughout the Department. The laissez-faire attitude of some departmental officers demonstrates gross neglect and injustice. I should remind honourable members that to do injustice is more distasteful than to suffer it. 
As well tonight I would like to discuss the question of proper identification for social security benefits. Unnecessary hardship is being imposed on the genuinely unemployed by the proof of identity requirements for unemployment benefit applicants. The forms of identification include an original birth, baptismal or marriage certificate or an extract of same issued at least  S  years ago; a group certificate covering a total of at least 6 months of full time employment; a passport; a recent school report or reference written on official school paper; an original motor registration form in the claimant's own name; a credit card showing the claimant's full name and address; a rates or water account made out in the claimant's name and showing his or her current address; or an insurance policy in the claimant's name issued at least 2 years ago. 
Until recently a taxation assessment notice for the year was acceptable. It has been determined by the Department that it should no longer be so. A driving licence or a savings bank pass book without supporting evidence is also unacceptable. Whilst my colleagues and I understand that it is necessary to impose rules in order to prevent fraud, these rules must not discriminate against some unfortunate applicants for unemployment benefit. I cannot understand why the Department cannot comprehend that many people who become unemployed, especially school leavers, do not have passports, do not have credit cards, do not have insurance policies and do not have rate notices. As well there are many complications in obtaining an original birth, baptismal or marriage certificate or one at least 5 years old. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the considerable public reaction against the proposed Iwasaki tourist development at Farnborough near Yeppoon, Queensland. 
Was a final environmental impact statement prepared On the Iwasaki development; if so, when will he make it avilable to the public. 
If there was a final environmental impact statement, did it differ from the draft statement; if so, in what particulars did it differ. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on September 1978: 
What sum has been returned to the Armed Services from turnover and profits made by the Australian Services Canteens Organisation since its establishment in 1 959. 
What are the benefits, funds and concessions which the Government has been able to make available to servicemen from this sum. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) How many reports on, or investigations into, the Australian Services Canteens Organisation have been made in the last S years. 
Have any reports or investigations recommended that ASCO be closed. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What are the alternatives to the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
Which alternative is preferable. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What is the profit made by the Queensland division of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
1 ) What is the date on or after which members of the staff of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation will be retrenched. 
Has he conducted discussions with any Departments or with the Public Service Board regarding the relocation of members of ASCO staff. 
What guarantee can he give to each ASCO member for re-employment within the Public Service. 
In the course of the Government's pre-Budget deliberations, did the Treasurer consider the question of tax exemption for a new reading device for the blind called the Optacon, as he promised to do in his reply to my question on notice No. 1308? If the Optacon has not been included in the list of items receiving tax exemptions, will the Treasurer say on what advice he was acting in refusing tax exemption? Will he also inform the Parliament whether all Braille typewriting machines are exempt from tax? 
-Until recently the record of Australia's long aviation history has been one of which the industry and the authorities could be proud and one which had inspired confidence in air passengers. However, incidents which have occurred this year have impressed upon the minds of technicians, travellers and authorities in the industry the alarming fact that the only thing standing between Australia's good record and a disastrous record- that is, the only thing barring a major catastrophe- has been the conditional factor of luck. Some accidents have come so close to being complete disasters that luck surely must have played a major part in their avoidance. 
This view was expressed by the  chairman  of the General Aviation Sub-committee of the authoritative Guild of Air Pilots and Air Navigators,  Mr John  Colwell. In a paper he has written  Mr Colwell  states that air travellers and taxpayers are paying exorbitant fares for what he refers to as Australia's 'straightjacket' approach to aviation. Certainly, on the basis of miles per accident, which I think is a reasonable means of assessment, Australia is far surpassed by the United States where in the 10 years to 1976 there were 22 domestic air accidents. Three of those accidents resulted in loss of life, totalling 45 people. In the same period Qantas was involved in three accidents which resulted in no fatalities. The domestic accident rate was 0.74 accidents per 100,000 hours, whilst the Qantas rate was 0.39 accidents per 100,000 hours. Therefore expressed in terms of hours flown per accident it means that our domestic carriers had an accident every 135,000 hours and Qantas had an accident every 256,000 hours. The comparatively impressive record of Qantas is attributable, according to  Mr Colwell,  to good crew training and engineering. Apart from that, what must be taken into account is the low exposure experienced by Qantas to potential accident situations. The greatest risk periods for aircraft occur in the few minutes before and during landing and during and immediately after take-off.  Mr Colwell  says: 
Qantas, with its average sector time of 4.S hours, has much less exposure than the domestic with their typical one hour sector time. Offsetting this in part is the fact that Qantas has to operate in areas of the world where air traffic control and airport facilities are, to say the least, substandard. 

 Mr Colwell believes that air traffic controllers in the United States of America which, incidentally, despite its dense traffic boasts the best air safety record in the world, have an extraordinarily relaxed approach to their work. Their gargon is disarmingly direct and simple compared with the verbal, bureaucratic and procedural bind of controllers in this country. I wish to point out that Australian controllers should not be held responsible for this condition. I should not be so bold or superficial as to suggest that America's air safety record is the upshot of the casual attitude of its controllers. It may, however, be one contributing factor. 
Other conditions that might be responsible for America's apparent ability to cope much better with its huge bulk of traffic in terms of both safety and efficiency may be related to training, industrial environment, procedures and culture. 
Colwell, I think, makes a rather contentious point when he implies that procedures of air traffic control in America rely more on the judgment of controllers than on rigid procedures. Of course this is hard to swallow in any bureaucratic outfit. What makes more readily acceptable sense is Colwell 's observation that at busy airports where there are large numbers of general aviation movements many of the controllers are also pilots. They remain in the same location for a long period and, as a result, gain the respect of and a good rapport with the operators on the field. Industry-wise, they receive encouragement to remain in the same place. They do not have to move to get more money. 
Further, Colwell adds that, unlike the situation in Australia, in the United States there seems to be no reluctance or instinctive mental block about paying proportionately high salaries for high levels of competence and skill, not to mention enormous responsibility. It appears that often controllers at major airports in Australia are quite junior. Promotion is conditional on movement and, as the job of approach controller is the most coveted, most ambitions are directed to attaining that position. Controllers are paid to follow established procedures. There seems to be a restraint on the exercise of judgment and the assuming of responsibility for that judgment because most controllers spend little time at the general aviation airport. Because of the current hangups and restraint, rapport between air traffic control and the operators is relatively poor, despite well intentioned efforts by people on both sides. 
I should point out that the subject of these criticisms is the procedure and policy, not the people involved. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has rejected a public inquiry. In his speech in this House on Wednesday 16 August 1978, he said that he entirely rejected the idea of a public inquiry. Several breaths before that comment he had proclaimed: 
It is the Government 's policy to maintain aviation safety at the highest possible level. 
We surely ought to be aspiring to the best air safety record in the world. It ought to be attainable. We have not reached that level. Obviously if the Government is serious in its stated intention, an inquiry would be held to determine why the expenditure of public moneys for the procurement of private planes for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is somehow more acceptable than spending a trifle on an inquiry which would result in a higher level of safety. 
The Minister has provided various statistics which gloss over the human factor, the loss of life. Air safety is related entirely to the protection of human life, yet the Minister produced selective figures on the number of people killed or injured in aviation accidents. He did not provide us with a comprehensive table of accidents, preferring instead to pick and choose the figures that he quoted in order to establish his case and then, as he called it, place things in their proper perspective by saying that we should contrast the air record with the carnage on the roads. The Minister referred to a political campaign which was orchestrated through the media to undermine morale and cause concern in the minds of the travelling public. How paranoid can one get? The Minister apparently is oblivious to the always tenuous, sometimes turbulent, relationship between the media and the Opposition, which is characterised by equal measures of mutual disdain and suspicion. 
Furthermore, to suggest that anyone would be causing this sort of consternation for political gain is spurious and ought to be beneath a Minister of the Crown. By his attack on the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, it is the Minister who is playing politics. He has admitted a reduction since 1975 of 558 staff of a 1978 total of 6,078 people in the technical and operational sections which are the sections in the Department most closely concerned with the implementation of safety aspects. The Minister should indicate the reason for the removal of each member of the staff from those sections. Saying that reductions or removal came as a result of improvements in efficiency, technology and economics, as the Minister did in the Parliament in August, simply is not good enough. In fact, it is downright misleading if compared with a statement issued by the Minister's office in mid-July this year in which he stated as a reason for the reduction in air safety related areas that air safety specialists who resigned or retired took time to replace because of the training that is needed. Which is it to be? Have the people in those sections of the Department been displaced by technological change or have they retired or resigned and failed to be adequately replaced, which to my mind indicates poor planning and lack of foresight? 
Progress reported. 
-I wish to bring to the attention of the Parliament tonight a case of misrepresentation on a scale certainly larger than that to which this House is accustomed. In fact the case involved in the misrepresentation of this country is in some of the most esteemed journals of the United States of America. I read from an advertisement placed in recent editions of the  Saturday Evening Post-  an advertisement similar to advertisements placed in other leading American journals. It states:  50,000 jobs. Free transportation! Latest information for $2 Austco, Box 8289, Long Beach, California. 
When my mother in America alerted me to this vital information, it naturally surprised me. Here I was, along with every member of the Opposition and the occasional reluctant Government supporter, protesting loud and long at the parlous state of employment in this country- no doubt our colleagues in New Zealand were doing likewise- when suddenly an American company is going to show us, for the princely sum of $2, where to lay our hands on 50,000 jobs. What a scoop! What a trump it would be for the Opposition if one day we could tell the Government that for $2 we would show it how to get 50,000 jobs for the registered unemployed. Well, it is a fizzer and a fraud. I regret not only that it is not true but also that I parted with my own $2 in order to find that out. The 26,000 unemployed of New Zealand and the 400,000 unemployed of this country need not raise their hopes. The information which I received from the company calling itself Austco included stationery with the well known insignia of a kangaroo- straight from Qantas Airways Ltd. 
Among the information relevant to Australiathere is not much of it- was the offer of a beautiful colour map of Australia which, it was proclaimed, showed all the States of Australia with special maps of Perth, Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide and New Zealand. I do not know whether the omission of Queensland and Brisbane was accidental or whether Austco knows something that Canberra does not know. Anyway, as well as the offer of this beautiful map, the eager American recipient receives a list of US firms which are engaged in manufacturing operations in Australia, either directly or indirectly though subsidiary and associated companies, and which have a proportion of their ordinary capital owned by US firms other than those resident in Australia. Whilst the list includes the Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corporation, the Chrysler Company is conspicuous by its absence. Again, I do not know if Austco knows something that we do not. The varied list covers businesses involved in everything from preservatives and foundation garments to baby foods and mining iron ore. Many of the firms, as far as I have been able to determine, simply do not exist in this country. I cannot for the life of me work out from where Austco gets the figure of 50,000. No doubt, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations would be eager to know. 
The language of the leaflet is typically hard sell, and as they say in the advertising game,  hype '. I quote from one page: 
Working overseas in Australia is exciting, rewarding, adventuresome and the opportunities for you to come home with a fortune in your pocket are now even greater than ever! 
Far from having a fortune in his pocket, any luckless American adventurer is likely in these times of recession to leave these shores and return home with only holes in his pocket. What tragic irony it is that Americans are being so deceived and duped. I hope that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will clear the air by issuing a statement through Australia's many representatives in the United States of America- in San Francisco, New York, Chicago and Washington- explaining just how miserable and hopeless is our present economic and employment situation. Better still, since the Government has made great play of the Prime Minister's belated invitation from  President  Carter, he might take the opportunity when in America to illuminate Americans about our economy. While Americans have effective laws which will permit legal action against those people presently misrepresenting the Australian economy and the employment situation, Australians- among them our unemployed- are not able to take action against those people in this country who flagrantly misrepresent and mislead them over the true state of the Australian economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 September1978: 
Which of the 3 large coastal patrol andmaintenance vessels located in Brisbane, Perth and Melbourne aretobe affected by his Department's decision to scale down the work done by these vessels, for example lighthouse inspection, fuel replacement and battery changes, and to replace them with helicopter services. 
What attempts arc being made to redeploy members of the crew of the ships who are to be affected. 
What functions relating to service, includingfisheries management, are presently performed and expected tobe performed in the future by each of these vessels. 
Is any member of any of these vessels a lawenforcement officer. 
Is it a fact that the Captain of the MVCapeMoretonon passage from Darwin to Thursday Island received word from Canberra to investigate Chinese fishing vessels, and that on encountering these vessels, the Captain was ableonly to ask them to pick up their nets and head home. 
-My grievance today concerns the homeless persons of Brisbane. I wish to appeal to the Government for greater consideration of the homeless in Brisbane, particularly Brisbane's homeless youth. I am aware of the good work done against insuperable circumstances by both the Kalina and Primmer Lodges and St Vincent de Paul. I would add that the establishment of the Society of the Helping Hand has further assisted the struggle to provide shelter and crisis accommodation for our  displaced youths. In this respect I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the minute paper of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development on youth crisis accommodation in Brisbane. This paper sets out the facts about accommodation in that city. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
Brisbane 26 June 1978 
Minute Paper 
Re: Youth Crisis Accommodation- Brisbane 
Iam attaching hereto a report submitted by ARO  Mr John  Elliott on Youth Crisis Accommodation in Brisbane. 
(J. HAMILTON) 
State Director. 
YOUTH CRISIS ACCOMMODATION IN BRISBANE-JUNE 1978 
Introduction 
Refuges- 
Kalinga Lodge. 
Society of the Helping Hand. 
Primmer Lodge. 
Referring agencies- 
.  Brisbane Youth Service. 
Department of Children's Services. 
St Vincent de Paul/Salvation Army. 
Women 's Community Aid. 
Issues- 
REPORT-BRISBANE: YOUTH CRISIS ACCOMMODATION 
There is no establishment in Brisbane providing specifically and solely for crisis accommodation (i.e. for a week or less) of young people. Such services are always provided in conjunction with either- 
longer-term, supportive accommodation in a supervised community. Groups providing such services in Brisbane are- 
Kalinga Lodge 
Society of the Helping Hand various voluntary (usually church ) groups; or 
'doss-house' services (providing meals and bed), the major one being the St Vincent de Paul city centre. This centre caters mainly for older homeless men, and young men (about 6-8 per week are referred elsewhere). Primmer Lodge, a self-supporting longerterm care community for children aged 14-17, has recently received State Government funding to operate 6 short-term crisis accommodation beds. These should become available some time in 1978. 
Following are descriptions of Kalinga Lodge, Society of the Helping Hand, and Primmer Lodge. 
. Kalinga Lodge. (See Appendix 1 (i) Newspaper cutting). 
Background /Staff- The lodge was unofficially opened to children in 1 973, by two Catholic priests living in the building. A 'staff change occurred in 1977 when a number of mature income-earning residents left the lodge, leaving it largely without income. It now exists on the salaries of two of the staff (a Catholic priest and a working man) who are assisted by a nun (unsalaried). Up to 10 voluntary workers come to contribute their time and energy in the evenings. 
The Refuge. The 20 bedroom stone building is provided rent-free by the Catholic Church, and is located about15 minutes drive from the city on Brisbane's northside. 
Clientele. The inmates (8 at present) are aged 1 5-20 years, both male and female, and are either ex-institutional kids, have no parents, or a history of family conflict and breakdown. Cutoff of unemployment benefits is a common motivator for seeking refuge at the lodge, while alcohol, drug and 'growing-up' problems are also associated. 
Services/Aims. Kalinga Lodge aims to provide both short and longer-term accommodation in a therapeutic, supportive community atmosphere. Where feasible, it attempts to relocate kids with their families, find jobs or secure unemployment benefits. It has a good relationship with the local CES, and all kids attend one of two CYSS centres daily. Formal Christian content in the daily program is minimal and not compulsory, and staff and inmates meet to discuss various issues nightly. 
Referrals. The lodge receives referrals (requests for accommodation) from the following: 
Department of Social Security (via its social workers) 
Department of Children's Services (State) 
Police (Juvenile Aid Bureau) 
St Vincent de Paul City Centre 
Brisbane Youth Service 
Legion of Mary (Catholic) 
CYSS's 
Inmates 
Sundry others in community. 
In May 1976, it received 18 referrals 14 of which it refused. Alternative accommodation for these 14 was found with families and other voluntary groups on an ad hoc basis. 
Funding/Costs. The lodge receives no external funding, (i.e. only the salaries of the two staff keep it going).  Major costs  are food ($4,200 pa.), telephone ($1,000 p.a.), electricity ($450 p.a.), gas, council rates and general maintenance. 
Records. The lodge has kept detailed records of numbers of inmates, referrals, refusals and meals served since January 1978, with the intention of securing funding under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
Society of the Helping Hand- 
Much of the aim and function of the Society of the Helping Hand is explained in Appendix 2. Additional points of relevance are: 
The Society does not receive (and has never received) direct government assistance in any form. The cost of running the house at Kangaroo Point is about $220 per week ($100 rent, $120 food and sundries) of which $ 1 10 comes from income- earning inmates, and the remainder from the Director's pocket (he works as a radio commentator). There is hope that the registration of the Society as a charity will bring additional future income. The Director wishes to employ a tertiary qualified youth worker at the centre, but does not have the funds at present. 
Staff. The house is at present staffed by- (i) the Director (when not working professionally) who has had some social work training, and has been active in 
Brisbane "self-help" centres for some years. He is assisted by an unsalaried, live-in welfare worker, and a youth being paid under the NEAT scheme. 
The Refuge. The building itself is an old, somewhat dilapidated weatherboard house, for which the weekly rent of $100 seems excessive. The city is easily accessible by foot, ferry or car. The refuge has changed locations twice since January 1977. Its history, in brief is- 
Hind Street, Bowen Hills (9 months) 
Woolloongabba (5-6 months) 
Kangaroo Point (5 months) 
Referrals. Referrals are received from- 
The Salvation Army 
State Department of Children 's Services 
Brisbane Youth Service 
CYSS Centre (Stones Corner) 
Police 
Probation Office 
Life-line 
Referrals from residents 
Miscellaneous others. 
The Helping Hand refuge has received over 500 referrals since the beginning of 1978, and over 900 including 1977. 
The refuge does maintain records of numbers. 
Clientele. The centre caters only for young males, as females 'create too much conflict in the house'. Average stay for a 'long-term' resident is 1-2 months, although there are many 'overnighters'. There are 17 residents at present, though the numbers always swell on weekends. Many are dole cutoffs' (often due to the lack of a permanent address), and the refuge is active in re-instating benefits and motivating residents towards employment. 
Other residents are country kids, transients (and travellers) and victims of home and family breakdowns. 

 General. Discipline is not strict in the refuge. There are no curfews and little 'administrative pressure'. Inmate participation and peer pressure are more important forces in maintaining order. The Director does not want subsidy from the State government. He believes there are 'too many binds and hassles with having to accept kids from Children 's Services '. 
He is more in favour of the type of funding provided under the HPA Act, (i.e. on a meal and bed basis alone) but has not applied for such. Also mentioned were plans to establish similar refuges in Townsville and Cairns. 
Primmer Lodge- 
Appendix 3 summarises the main features of Primmer Lodge. It has not yet started operating its 6 crisis accommodation beds, and at present has 1 1 'longer-term' (i.e. several months at least) resident children. Primmer Lodge is remarkable in that it has a good working relationship with Children's Services. Not only are those residents (the majority) referred by Children's Services receiving regular payments ('MLI payments') under the existing subsidy scheme, but the Lodge received a $4,000 grant  in advance  for operating the 6 crisis beds. Such organisation shows the potential for funding once a centre is approved (for crisis accommodation) by the State government. (Primmer Lodge is the only such approved centre in Queensland at present, though many others receive regular payments for 'longer-term' accommodation). The Lodge aims to provide sensitive, caring accommodation for its 'crisis' residents, but under no conditions will they stay for more than four working days. It is thought that this would have a bad effect on the therapeutic, family atmosphere maintained for the the 
Of the 1 1 longer-term residents, 3 are unemployed, but fully occupied in a program of various manual skills-teaching and maintenance activities of the Lodge. (The management have applied for an educational subsidy for these activities). 6 are at school. and 2 are working. 
The Lodge pays $250 per week rent to the Uniting Church, which is its biggest expense. 
In addition to MLI payments, expenses are met by a number of on-site support programs including raising nursery plants and birds for sale, running fowls and growing vegetables. Some of the staff also get salaries, but I didn't get the details. The nine live-in voluntary workers also work during the day, and make donations to the central fund. 
Overall, Primmer Lodge appeared to be a well-organised, well-run establishment. Impressions of its operation once the crisis beds are operating will be most useful. 

 Referring Agencies 

Referrals come from a vast number of sources, including general purpose voluntary welfare bodies, churches, government bodies and youth oriented programs such as CYSS centres and the Brisbane Youth Service. They all have one thing in common: the opinion that the Brisbane youth crisis accommodation situation is far from satisfactory. Actual opinion ranged from ' unco-ordinated ' through 'bad' to desperate'. 
The usual procedure followed by referring bodies looking for crisis accommodation is rather ad hoc, and involves one of the following alternatives: 
contacting other referring agencies to see if they know of a place' 
using personal contacts with families, hostels, boarding houses, churches et cetera- experience counts here 
referring the person to one of the recognised refuges such as Kalinga Lodge or the Society of the Helping Hand. 
All referring and receiving bodies would benefit from having available a summary of the Brisbane situation and a list of relevant contacts (could the Office of Youth Affairs help here?). 
Following are summaries (including figures where available) of the major Brisbane referring bodies I have contacted. 

 The Brisbane Youth Service, (sec Appendix 1 (ii)) 
Apart from being the major receiving point for referrals from elsewhere, the BYS seeks out 'houseless' youth with nightly forays into the inner city parks, streets and youth gathering points. 
The numbers of youth looking for a bed contacted by BYS each week exceeds 30.  Major referring  bodies (to BYS) are the Juvenile Aid Bureau (associated with Queensland Police Department), social workers of the Department of Social Security, and Children's Services. The BYS is centrally located in Brisbane, and it's two street workers haveearnt a reputation for good service with the city's youth. 'Wordofmouth' referrals from other city kids arc common. 
BYS has built up a list of families, boarding houses, church groups and other informal contacts (it also works through radio stations) who can sometimes put up homeless kids, but the process of placement is very ad-hoc and very time-consuming. However, they do nearly always place their referrals. 
BYS gets a grant of $6,000 per annum from Department of Children's Services, plus a lesser amount from 5 inner-city churches. This is inadequate, as it must pay two salaries, food and accommodation vouchers that can amount to $125 per week, and sundry expenses such as phone bills. 
BYS Clientele 10-25 yrs: mainly 14-18 yrs, Male and Female. 
Children's Services- 
The State Department of Children 's Services (DCS) operates a number of children's 'residential care facilities' in Brisbane (long term) and corrective institutions, and administers MLI payments to other institutions accommodating state wards. 
In the area of crisis accommodation, its advance payments to Primmer Lodge are a new initiative. The Department is aware of the need for crisis accommodation, as it is the first point of contact for homeless children picked up by police (often in city parks). These children then come under the care and protection' of the state. In a recent study of 62 such children, 24 were placed in crisis accommodation of some description, 18 were placed in hostels (eg. Taringa Lodge, David Henry Lodge, 'The Ark' at Windsor- usually operated by voluntary bodies) from which 8 absconded soon after placement, and 20 were referred elsewhere as the hostels were full. 
A Department spokesman said that at any one time there were about 40 kids (DCS handles children to 16 years) needing immediate accommodation. Hence the large number of DCS referrals to other bodies. Problems are often encountered with long-term placements to flats, boarding houses and citizen's homes, with either the child or the 'host' finding the arrangement unsatisfactory. DCS also has to do a lot of shopping around' to place a child in crisis accommodation. It should also be remembered that many homeless youth will go out of their way to avoid contact with a government institution. DCS demand is probably only half the picture. 
St Vincent de Paul/Salvation Army- 
As mentioned earlier, St Vincent de Paul city refuge gives a bed and meal to about 6-8 youth (male) per week. The Salvation Army Valley office (which has no accommodation facilities) also refers about 12 per week, mostly to its old men's hostel in South Brisbane. Neither group is satisfied with a system where young men are thrown in with the old professionals'. 
The Salvation Army is hoping to establish a centre (possibly with 20 beds) to accommodate homeless youth in Clayfield (north Brisbane), and also has plans for a six-bed girls refuge. It should be mentioned that in my talks with youth workers in Brisbane, some criticism was levelled at the high level of discipline maintained in other Salvation Army establishments. In turn, the Salvation Army spokesman disagreed with the Helping Hand policy of a 'noncompulsory ' charge for accommodation. He felt that this was bad training for youth. This sort of conflict is worth noting, as religiously based organisations are by far the bestestablished in the welfare area. They have vast resources to draw on. but may need sound advice (OYA?) in the youth accommodation issue. 
Women's Community Aid- 
WCA operate a 6 room family house for threatened, battered and raped women with children in Brisbane (SHELTA). They also contact 1 or 2 teenage girls per week, plus a similar number of young girls (with a baby) in need of accommodation. They commented that rape was a major problem for homeless girls in Brisbane. 
General 
The figures quoted above should be used with caution. Crisis accommodation (for 2-7 days, say) would only fill part of the need. The director of the Society of the Helping Hand was of the opinion that 6 centres (4 male, 2 female) similar to his at Kangaroo Point, would remove the urgency from Brisbane 's youth accommodation needs. 
Issues 
There is a tremendous demand in Brisbane for youth accommodation (both crisis and long-term supportive). All concerned bodies commented on the difficulty of placing homeless youth, and were coping on a piecemeal, ad-hoc basis. 
Relationships of concerned bodies with the State Department of Children's Services require rationalisation in the following areas. 
funding of bodies providing services at present is unsatisfactory. Some aren 't aware of their entitlements. 
a child must be under the ' care and protection ' of the State at present before his accommodation costs will be subsidised. Those who don't come via DCS miss out. At present there is 'too much red tape to cut' to set up a centre. Given that many kinds are frightened of 'institutions', less formal refuges appear to need more support. 
There is a lot of movement in the youth accommodation scene in Brisbane: many different bodies arc planning initiatives. They need liaison co-ordination and benevolent guidance. As an example, the Brisbane Youth Service may shortly be offered the use of a 400 bed facility in Brisbane. This could be either a step forward if well planned or a disaster if not. 
Whenever I mentioned 'crisis accommodation' and explained that it usually meant for less than a week, the typical comment was 'What then?'. The feeling was that crisis accommodation alone won 't serve a worthwhile purpose. (John Elliott) 
EHCD Brisbane 
I thank the House. The Society of the Helping Hand which has its headquarters at the corner of Cairns and O'Connell Streets, Kangaroo Point, has assisted well over 500 young people. Helping Hand sees society's lost generation pass through its doors daily; the pitiful generation that this Government has thrown on the slag heap of unemployment; the generation whose future this Government mortgaged in pursuit of its ruinous nineteenth century economic policies. I am told by the Society's director,  Mr Keith  Ashton, that an alarming grog cult is festering among Brisbane's young unemployed. Once the age level of people in this group was between 50 and 60 years but today the prospective skid row alcoholic could be as young as 18 years old. Because cannabis is less available than other drugs many young people are resorting to sniffing glue or drinking heavily. They do so out of desperation or sheer boredom. I am sure that many honourable members on both sides of the House can appreciate the anguish of a young man or young woman out of school, out of a job and down in the dumps. We are fooling ourselves if we think that the condition is temporary and that the sense of rejection keenly felt by these young individuals- please let us remember that they are young individuals- will start to make them think and to ask: 'Why have we been cast aside by this Government? Why is there no place in society for us? Why can we not play an active part in the development and future of our country?' 
Look at the upshot of the alienation of youth in one of the world's most economically secure societies, that of West Germany. Unresponsive government has caused rejection among substantial numbers of West German youth. Rejection has meant ostracism and that in turn has produced disillusionment, resentment, rebellion and revolutionaries. What starts as a minor irritation develops into an incurable cancer. If the Government insists on using our young as inflation fodder we can expect only enormous social indigestion. Recently funds have been approved by the Australian Government to the Society of the Helping Hand under provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. That aid is a start to mitigation of the problem of youth shelter. However, Government assistance is 75c per person for one meal and accommodation overnight- a meagre pittance, but nevertheless a start. Normally, for an approved homeless persons centre, a subsidy is also paid for items such as a social worker's wage, purchase of furniture and subsidy for rent. No such assistance has been extended to the Society of the Helping Hand. With the growing unemployment situation, housing for the homeless should have the highest priority. This point is well covered in the Department of Social Security survey of homeless persons assistance centres entitled 'A Place of Dignity' which was printed in June this year. The areas of need are clearly defined as are the methods of meeting that need. The survey's review of the Act is frank and enlightening. I read from a passage on page 6 1 which states: 
Although appropriate to some organisations, activities and client groups, present categories and levels of funding were inadequate to others. There was disappointment with the programme's failure to encourage innovation, although there was little clarity as to what would constitute desirable innovation. 
In general, the programme had achieved useful but undramatic improvement of the traditional system of service for homeless persons and even there it had suffered from a  bricks-and-mortar  bias. More money should go into staff salaries for example. 
I think it is also useful to look at a section on page 63 of the survey which in relation to the Act states:   . . would have achieved more had any economic recession and consequent reduction of Federal Government spending caused the money to be turned off, although the achievement would have been greater in quantity rather than better in quality . . . 
There is evidence that, as would be expected, the economic conditions that prevented development of the programme have also increased the load on services for homeless people. 
The policies of this Government in meeting the economic conditions have also increased the load on services for homeless people. At least $200,000 should be made available this year to meet the needs of community organisations engaged in this sphere of activity in Queensland. We cannot expect much in the way of contributions from the Queensland Government. After all, the majority of clientele at the hostel at Kangaroo Point are from out of the State. Given the Queensland Government's lack of enthusiasm in providing for its own disadvantaged and underprivileged, it is perhaps expecting too much for it to treat non-Queenslanders better than its own. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who represents the Minister for Social Security,  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave notice in the second reading speech of the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill that the program which will implement the basics of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act is now sufficiently well established to warrant discussion with State governments on their views about the sharing of responsibilities in this area. 
I hope the Minister is prepared for frustration and filibustering because that is the stock in trade of the Queensland Premier and experience teaches that to expect anything more of him or of his Government is to practice artless selfdelusion. It is up to the Australian Government to grasp the nettle, to rethink its economic programs and to give all young Australians a meaningful purpose in life so that they too will feel wanted and be able to take an active role in developing our country into one of the great nations of the world. For the sake of democracy the Government must start to look at the serious problems with which Australian youth is confronted day by day and take immediate steps to alleviate their problems. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article published in the  National Times  of 1-7 October 1978 in which the reporter responsible for the article states that a major airline has complained about the behaviour of a much travelled Liberal Minister during his frequent flights overseas. 
If so, has a formal complaint to the Prime Minister been lodged. 
Is there any substance to the  National Times  report which described the attitude of one of his Ministers as loud and abusive. 
If so, will he inquire as to the identity of that Minister and inform the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 978: 
1 ) Have any arrangements been made for hire car services to be provided to Ministers or their staff from a firm located on the Gold Coast, Queensland. 
If so, (a) what is the name of the firm and (b) what are the hiring rates charged. 
Were competing quotations sought from major hire car firms such as Avis, Hertz or Budget. 
How do the hiring rates charged by this firm on this contract compare with major competitors. 
-The date of 1 November 1978 means to the health system what the date of 11 November 1975 means to democracy. It marks the beginning of the end. Some of the more insidious proposals still remaining from the ill-fated and illconceived August Budget of this LiberalNational Country Party coalition government were inflicted on the entire country in one fell swoop on 1 November. We were, of course, hit with the  Vi  per cent tax surcharge which, for some unspoken reason, we are paying at the increased rate of 12 over 7 even though the tax is being collected over eight months. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has yet to explain that piece of numbers rigging. As well, on 1 November the entire country was thrown in a medical muddle. 
I want tonight to draw attention briefly to two aspects of the confusion and unfairness of this Government's 'medi-muddle'. Firstly, it is clear now, as with most of the other ingenious, pennypinching contrivances of this Government, that those who can affort it the least pay the most for the Government's mistakes. All last week my office was inundated with calls from angry and confused pensioners wanting to know why their contribution rates to health funds were rising so high, yet the coverage remained the same. Last week it was brought to my attention that the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia is requiring pensioners to sign up for two tables, P and Z, if they want cover for dentists' and optometrists' fees- 'teeth and glasses cover' as one pensioner to whom I spoke called it. Tables P and Z replace the old table R and naturally the cost of that cover went up. The monthly married rate went up as well. Because the Government has withdrawn its hospital subsidy of 15c a day single and 30c a day double the cost of intermediate ward cover has risen dramatically to compensate. Again the poor old pensioner suffers. 
It is all the more annoying and upsetting for pensioners because these rises have taken place almost without publicity, whilst much media hoo-ha and ministerial breast beating has accompanied the fall in the costs of basic medical cover. The pittance of an increase which this Government is now handing to those pensioners who are lucky enough after the imposition of the means test to get an increase, and only once a year, has almost completely evaporated with these rises. This Government is so morally corrupt and so cynical that it would not surprise me if its callous indifference to the plight of the pensioners were based on the belief that they will be dead and buried by the time of the next general election in two years. That is not just my opinion; it is the near unanimous verdict of the pensioners to whom I have spoken and who have contacted my office in the past week. 
The matter of health is as important to the old as taxation is to the workers and education is to the children. With that in mind, I am firmly of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the public generally and of the pensioners in particular that doctors should be allowed to advertise their services and fees. For too long free enterprise in the medical profession has simply meant the right for doctors to set their own rates for the services they provide. The time has come to extend this slogan so that patients or, if we like, consumers have the information to choose their doctors on the basis of their fees and services. 
At the moment medicine seems to be a matter of buying a pig in a poke. If those doctors who bulk bill, do house calls or do not charge for repeat prescriptions were allowed to advertise those services and their rates I think that socalled free enterprise might gain some credibility in the medical profession. Of course, the forms of advertising would have to be more modified than the present forms in any of the other professions. Perhaps a list of services and charges set out on a sheet of paper of specified size could be displayed outside a surgery. Obviously, if things remain unchanged it will depend on luck whether patients have a doctor who bulk bills or house calls or have one who does not. Luck would be eliminated - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to research undertaken by the Association of Sheltered Workshops of New South Wales which indicates a fall in the percentage which permissible earnings constitutes of the full pension for handicapped employees of sheltered workshops, and a similar fall in the percentage which permissible earnings for handicapped persons constitutes of the average wage. 
If so, will the Minister increase the amount of permissible earnings. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to various schemes operating around the world for protection and care of children through the utilisation of childless families, the aged, and other untapped community resources. 
If so, will the Department of Social Security investigate a program known as the 'Block Parent Program', operating in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, which allows interested adults, usually aged persons, when approved by authorities, to act in loco parentis on certain occasions, whereby children who are lost, endangered, frightened or ill are able to gain refuge in the home of an approved block parent. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report of his visit to Nambour, Queensland, published in the  Courier Mail  of Friday 13 October 1978; if so, is the report an accurate account of the visit. 
Did he say of hecklers who attended a meeting which he addressed, that they were supposed to be unemployed, but a couple who got up had what appeared to be brand new motor cycle helmets and one had an expensive camera. 
If so, does he expect unemployed persons, when they become unemployed, to renounce or sell what they may have received as presents, or bought before becoming unemployed. 
Does he accept that motor cycles generally cost less than most cars and that unemployed persons, if they are to have any success in gaining employment, must have some form of transport. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, in an appeal case raised by a member of the Australian Journalists ' Association employed originally by the Australian Wool Board and later in the then Departments of the Interior and Health, that it is the responsibility of every contributor to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme to make sure that his or her fortnightly superannuation payments are the correct amount. 
If so, will he undertake to inform by appropriate means, every member of the Public Service paying into the Scheme of this decision. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 2327  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1983) what are the 4 reports and/or investigations he cites, and when were they held. 
As he has indicated that none of the reports or investigations which he has cited has recommended that the Australian Services Canteens Organisation be closed, will he state in detail the reasons for his decision to close the Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to estimates compiled by the Queensland Conservation Council that (a) a by-pass road planned to provide access to the proposed resort at Yeppoon, Queensland, would cost approximately $1.5m and (b) an international airport to service the Yeppoon complex would cost approximately $250m. 
) Has his Department compiled estimates on the cost of providing these services to the Yeppoon development. 
If so, what are the estimates. 
What is the Commonwealth Government's involvement, either directly or through special assistance to the Queensland Government, in meeting expenses for the provision of these and other ancillary services to the IwasakiSangyo project at Yeppoon. 
What approaches have been made to the Government regarding the establishment of an airport to service the Yeppoon development 
How would the establishment of such an airport affect the development of, and Commonwealth Government assistance to, the Brisbane Airport. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 November1978: 
What arrangements exist between Australia and New Zealand for the handling of social security payments to citizens of one country resident in the other. 
How many New Zealanders are presently receiving social security payments in Australia, by state of residence. 
How many New Zealanders are presently resident in Australia. 
How many Australians are receiving social security payments in New Zealand. 
What forms of identification are required for New Zealanders when registering for social security benefits. 
How do these requirements differ from the forms required for identification of Australians seeking unemployment benefits in New Zealand. 
I refer the Treasurer to his statement of 12 July in which he announced the Government's decision to review the section of the Income Tax Assessment Act dealing with the taxation of housing accommodation and to his assurance that pending the outcome of the review the Commissioner of Taxation has decided not to pursue current initiatives in the matter. Is it a fact that the Taxation Office is continuing to tax workers in the sugar industry on the value of their company housing and that objections against those assessments have been dismissed? If so, how can the Treasurer reconcile this fact with his statement of 12 July and with the fact that workers in other industries are not being assessed on the value of their houses? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Further to his reply to question No. 2487  (Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2694) in which he stated that he had no knowledge of a report in the  National Times  of 1 October 1978 that a major airline had complained about the behaviour of a much travelled Liberal Minister during his frequent flights overseas and whose attitude was described as loud and abusive, now that his attention has been drawn to the report, will he make inquiries as to the identity of the Minister referred to and inform the House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
For persons who receive weekly wages of (a)  $100,  (b)  $125,  (c)  $150  and (d)  $200,  and who have received only wage indexation increases since December  1975,  what is the percentage rise or fall in the real value of each wage, that is, in relation to the rise in the CPI since December  1975. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Does each Australian taxpayer contribute approximately $16 per week to meet Public Service superannuation payments. 
If so, is the $16 in addition to the $10 a week the employee is paying for his or her own superannuation should he or she be fortunate enough to be among 25 per cent of private enterprise employees covered by superannuation. 
Is it his responsibilty to ensure that taxpayers' money is not handed out in overly generous Public Service superannuation. 
When will he review the Public Service superannuation schemes to bring them into line with what the community can afford. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Have many post-graduate scholars, presently working or researching under post-graduate scholarships and grants, made financial and contractual commitments on the understanding that their salary is not assessed for income tax, and, as a result of the Budget decision to introduce a standard income tax assessment on all post-graduate grants, are many unable to meet those commitments and therefore face the prospect of losing their investments or forfeiting their scholarships. 
If so, is any assistance contemplated for these postgraduate scholarship holders. 
As Australia now devotes a smaller percentage of its GNP to research than any other country in the western world, will he re-consider this decision. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What consideration was given to migrant and ethnic groups during deliberations on the proposal ending tax rebates for overseas dependants. 
What was the amount claimed in these rebates for 
1977- 78. 
Did he give any consideration to revising the rebate system with a view to instituting modifications or changes less final than abolition, or were the only alternatives retention of the former system or abolition. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the estimate of the sum saved this year by the Government through the imposition of a means test on age pension increases for pensioners over 70. 
What is the method of calculation by which he arrived at this figure. 
3 ) Is it a fact that, as the 1 978-79 budget cut out the May increase, pensioners receiving increases must now wait up to 1 6 months to catch up on current price rises. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
1 ) Has he ever said publicly that during the first 3 months of 1978-79 a rise in the deficit would be expected and that after this period the deficit would be expected to fall. If so, will he explain why this is so. 
Do official figures indicate the sum paid in unemployment benefits for the first 3 months of 1978-79 is $21 1,600,000, which is $22,600,000 more than for the first quarter of 1977-78. 
Do these figures compare unfavourably with the Government's budget estimate that unemployment benefits would be cut by $9,600,000 in 1978-79. If so, will he consider issuing a revised estimate for expenditure on unemployment benefits for 1978-79. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Is it a fact that the Commissioner for Taxation has issued instructions that the 1.5 per cent increase in the standard rate of tax for 1978-79 will be raised by increasing the surcharge which applies from 1 November by twelve sevenths. 
Will he explain the reasons for compressing payments for a yearly tax surcharge over 7 months when the payments are being made over 8 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Did the Department of Social Security publish in 1 978 a report, entitled 'A Place of Dignity', which reviews homeless persons assistance centres in Australia, and examines the operation of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
Does a passage on page 61 of the report state that in general, the program had achieved useful but undramatic improvement of the traditional system of service for homeless persons and even there it had suffered from a bricksandmortar bias and that, for example, more money should go into staff salaries; if so, will the Minister give consideration to this general recommendation. 
Does another passage on page 63 of the report state that there is evidence that, as would be expected, the economic conditions that prevented development of the program have also increased the load on services for homeless persons; if so, will the Minister consider increasing financial support to projects designed to provide services for homeless persons. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October, 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article by  Mr Richard  Doyle of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association published in that Association's monthly journal, in which  Mr Doyle,  referring to the Government's closure of the Industries Assistance Commission's Sydney and Melbourne offices, quotes passages from chapter 7 of the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. 
Upon what advice has the Government based its decision to reject the recommendation of the report of the Royal Commission in this instance. 
In consideration of the structural and planning disadvantages faced by industries in Queensland, due to that State's branch office status, and notwithstanding plans to close the Sydney and MelbourneI.A.C. offices, will he consider establishing anI.A.C office in Brisbane in order that it can review more closely the local circumstances of industries such as Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co., which recently announced closure of its Brisbane Factory. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Has each or any of the air bases in Australia been requested to submit an official or semi-official base view on the services provided by the Australian Services Canteens Organisation or any other aspect of the Organisation. 
Has the air base at Amberly, Queensland, submitted any statement outlining its collective opinion of the services offered by the Organisation. 
Is it a fact that opinion at the air base as outlined in an official statement or as held informally, 
is favourable toward the Organisation, 
expresses reservations about any alternative and 
expresses support for the retention of the Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 2328  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1983) will he state in detail what are the sort of canteen systems that are more closely aligned to the basic and essential needs of the defence force in the present socio-economic circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 2326  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1982), will he provide a detailed list of the welfare and amenities programs of both the Army and Air Force, which have been assisted by the $10m profit made by the Australian Services Canteens Organisation since 1959. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
With reference to bis answer to question No. 2330  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1983), what were the results of discussions with the Public Service Board and the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations regarding the relocation of the staff of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
For how many days and on what dates since December 1977, has each Queensland Member of the House of Representatives and each Queensland  Senator received  (a) Parliamentary relief staff for relief duties and (b) extra assistance, as opposed to relief, and what has been the cost to the Commonwealth of providing these services to each Member and  Senator. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to any official directive of any private health fund to personnel officers directing them not to employ former Medibank employees. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) What reference, either visual or oral, has been made in Government-sponsored advertisements promoting recruitment in the Services to the facilities of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
Is it a fact that at least 1 recruitment advertisement indicates that the Organisation's facilities are part of the attractions of life in the services. 
If he proceeds with plans to abolish the Organisation and its service, will the continuation of this advertisement constitute misleading advertising. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  of 14 October 1978, in which a lecturer in Social Administration at the University of Sydney,  Mr Alec  Pemberton, draws attention to the term 'socially disadvantaged ', the stigma which attaches to that term and those who it describes, and the term's implication for people so classified. 
Has his definition of 'socially disadvantaged' been made in terms of financial disadvantage, and not in terms of wider societal interplay of cultural, educational, and psychological factors; if so, will he consider changing that term to financially disadvantaged '. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the opinion expressed that the new Government proposal to give doctors the right to determine eligibility for direct billing represents an extension of doctors' medical mandate into an area where they have not special competence or professional skill, that is, m the area of social work or psychological or psychiatric determination. 
If so, will he consider moving that role of deciding on social deprivation and therefore eligibility for direct billing arrangements, from doctors to social workers. 
Is there widespread uneasiness among many doctors who are now required to arbitrate on matters of degree of social disadvantage; if so will he consider providing explicit guidelines for this determination. 
What appellate structure will exist for patients seeking redress for unfavourable decisions made by doctors in regard to their eligibility for direct billing arrangements, based on supposed social disadvantage. 
Does he deem any of the following groups to be disadvantaged socially: (a) Aboriginals, (b) homosexuals, (c) migrants and (d) recipients of full-rate social security benefits, for example, people receiving unemployment, supporting parent or sickness benefits at the full rate. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Has the Government considered plans to follow the closure of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation with a similar running down of Public Service canteens throughout Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
What factors were taken into consideration when he decided to reduce by 25 cents in every dollar the child allowance paid to a parent whose children earn in excess of $3 12 per year. 
How does he propose to distinguish between a child in a poor family selling newspapers to earn this amount and a child of a wealthy family receiving a dividend of this amount from a family trust. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
In the case of the Iwasaki resort proposal at Farnborough, near Yeppoon, Queensland, and in the terms of section 1 of the administrative procedures under the Environment protection (Impact of Proposals) Act- (a) what was the proposed action and (b) what was held to constitute the execution of the proposed action. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) What factors did he take into account in the decision to transfer all bulk billing processes from Medibank to his Department. 
How has he determined to absorb Medibank staff made redundant by Budget changes to the Government's health program when the total staff ceiling for his Department is approximately 6,320 and when the Public Service staff levels are generally being contained. 
What is the estimate of the number of persons (a) who will take out private health insurance during 1978-79 and (b) who are opting out of any health insurance arrangement. 
What is the average rate above the scheduled fee which doctors charge for (a) a consultation, (b) an appendectomy, (c) a specialist consultation and (d) a tonsilectomy 
For each of the services referred to in pan (4), what sum will be paid by patients who are not insured and who are required by their doctors to pay the average fee over the scheduled rate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article by  Mr Michael  Richardson on page 1 1 of the  Financial Review  of Wednesday, 8 November 1978, in which the author writes that a new gauge, known as the physical quality of life index, which has been accepted by the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD for measuring progress in the attainment of minimum human needs on the basis of 3 indicators- infant mortality life expectancy at age 1 and literacy- shows that Australia lags behind Japan and is not as far ahead of some of its Asian neighbours as is generally believed. 
If so, will he provide statistics for the 3 relevant indicators. 
Will he (a) ascertain by what formula the index is composited, (b) undertake regular compilation and publication of the Government's own index and (c) give consideration for the inclusion of such an index in the G.N.P., inflation and unemployment figures, thereby providing a more comprehensive quality of life indicator. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Is it a fact that Australia's rating on the physical quality of life index is 93 with per capita GNP SUS6,100, while Japan's is 96 with per capita GNP $US4,910, Taiwan's is 88 with per capita GNP $US 1,070, Hong Kong's is 87 with per capita GNP $US2,110, Singapore's is 83 with per capita GNP SUS2.700, Sri Lanka's is 81 with per capita GNP SUS2S0, and South Korea's is 80 with per capita GNP SUS670; if so, is he able to say if Australia 's status in relation to any of these countries is in any way impaired or retarded in the eyes of any of these countries, particularly Sri Lanka which has a per capita GNP of only $US250 and a physical quality of life index rating of 81, just over 12 points fewer than Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978. 
How much has the Government lost in forgone revenue as a result of deletions from, or changes to, the 1978-79 Budget. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a speech I made on the adjournment debate on 14 November 1978 calling on the Government to re-instate the hospital subsidy of IS cents (single) which was dropped on 1 November 1978, and which, as a result, has meant that health funds have been obliged' to raise contribution rates for intermediate ward cover. 
If so, will he give consideration to this request. 
Is it a fact that many of those affected by the abolition of the subsidy are pensioners. 
Is it also a fact that since 1 November 1978, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia requires that pensioners must contribute to 2 tables if they want extra cover, that is for optometric and dental cover, for a cost of $ 1 4.73 at the monthly married rate, whereas previously they had paid only $9. 10 for the same cover. 
Is the sum by which the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia has raised its contribution rates for intermediate ward cover, equivalent to the hospital subsidy which the Government abolished on 1 November 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Age  of 26 June 1978 which states that since the introduction in Great Britain of a value-added tax, by a Conservative Government in 1 April 1973, the VAT has come to rank with the Black Death, the Boston Tea Party and  Sir Donald  Bradman in the British chronicle of disasters. 
Will he outline what alterations to the businesses of (a) local grocers, (b) department stores, (c) clothing stores and (d ) restaurants would be necessary in the event of the introduction of a value-added tax or a retail sales tax, such as that which the Government has directed the Commissioner of Taxation to investigate. 
Would the introduction of a broad-based consumption tax have an inflationary effect as a result both of the cost of the tax itself to the consumer, as well as the cost of administering the tax, which businesses might pass on to the consumer. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the antique trade associations are so concerned about the possible introduction of a valueadded tax that they organised the first ever national conference of trade representatives in Melbourne on Monday, 20 November 1978. . ... 
Has his attention been drawn to the option expressed by a senior member of the New South Wales Antique Dealers Association and quoted in a report by  Mr Ingram  in the  Financial Review  of 17 November 1978, that, on the basis of the British experience with a value-added tax, two levels of dealing would begin to operate, with a lower cash price and a higher, invoiced price, therefore introducing the possibility of dealers evading the tax. 
asked the Treasurer, upon, notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Will he give an assurance that the Government does not foresee, and has not planned for, the scenario described by  Mr Eric  Risstrom of the Australian Taxpayers' Association wherein the Commonwealth Government would rely almost exclusively on excise and indirect taxes generally and leave the income tax field to the States. 
Has his attention been drawn to a research paper issued by the Taxation Institute of Australia Research and Education Trust which criticises a value-added tax because of the difficulties in introducing the system and educating those affected, the administrative and compliance costs which are excessive for efficient taxation collection, the accompanying inflation, the imposition of the onus of collection on a group not familiar with the requirements and the flow-on effect in terms of unemployment. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the point made by the Trust which suggests that only if a universally based value-added tax at a single low rate were introduced, would the advantages of such a tax be realised. 
Is he able to say if it is the experience of those western countries which have introduced a value-added tax that overtime exemptions and multiple rates for a value-added tax are inevitable. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Is it a fact that showers are provided in the men's toilets at the Commonwealth Parliament Offices, Brisbane, on the 12th floor of the Australian Government Centre, whereas the women's toilets in that same complex do not have showers even though one member of Parliament whose offices are on the 13th floor is a woman and all the secretaries in the 1 2 Parliamentarians ' offices are women. 
Do secretaries often have the same working hours as their employers and therefore have as much need for similar facilities to those of their employers. 
3 ) Will the Minister consider having a shower installed in the women's toilet on the 12th floor of the Australian Government Centre, Brisbane. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements published in the Melbourne  Sun  of 3 October 1978 by  Mr John  Vial, Executive Director of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, that small businesses in Britain have been severely hit by the value-added tax and that, if such a tax was introduced in Australia, small businesses would be ruined; if so, does he have any information on the position in Britain. 
Can he say whether the Government of the United Kingdom had to employ an extra 1 1,000 persons to administer and police the value-added tax when it was introduced in 1973. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 24 November 1 978: 
1 ) What discussions has he conducted with either consumer, business or manufacturing groups on the subject of an indirect tax collected at the retail level. 
What was the result of these discussions. 
Did he, during a meeting with retail sector lobby groups on 3 August 1978, give any undertaking regarding a commitment to the introduction of a broad-based consumption tax, collected at the retail level. 
Can he say whether the complicated and unpopular value-added tax in Britain has added to the bureaucracy and increased prices. 
What would be the effect on consumers of the introduction in Australia of a broad-based indirect tax similar to the value-added tax applying in Britain. 
Is it a fact that  Mr John  Martin, National Director of the Australian Retailers Association, has been invited by the Taxation Department to attend a meeting in Canberra to discuss how a broad-based consumption tax can be introduced. 
Can he say whether the introduction of a value-added tax is being strenuously opposed by many organisations, including the Small Business Council. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  National Times  of 14 October 1978, in which the author,  Mr Stuart  Simson, wrote that he, the Minister, was to ask Cabinet for an inquiry into technological change at a Cabinet meeting the following week. 
If so, (a) has he made any recommendation to Cabinet during the last month regarding an inquiry into technological change and the impact of change on the workforce and ( b ) what was the result of the Cabinet deliberation. 
If no recommendation was made, will he make one. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Has he had any communication with persons or groups representing business or consumer interests on the subject of the proposition of a broad-based consumption tax, such as a retail sales tax or value added tax, which the Treasurer has directed the Commissioner of Taxation to review; if so, what was the substance of that communication. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Sunday Telegraph  of 12 November 1978 which states that motorists who break any of the Queensland traffic laws, while driving in that State with a licence issued in another State, receive letters from the Secretary of the Queensland Transport Department reminding them that driving a motor vehicle in Queensland on a driver's licence issued in another State or country is a privilege, and warning them that if they are convicted again of a breach of the Queensland traffic laws, their rights to drive in Queensland could be revoked. 
If so, is a similar practice followed in every State in the Commonwealth. 
Will he initiate a conference with Transport Ministers of each of the States to ensure uniform legislation and regulation in this area so that discrimination of this sort will no longer exist. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Can he say whether notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations was called by the Executive Director,  Mr Allan  McCann, in breach of section 39 of the constitution of that organisation, as amended to April 1978, and therefore casts doubts on the legality of the existing Executive Committee 's functions. 
What assistance was given by the Australian Government to delegates to the International Organisation of Consumer Unions Conference in London in 1 978. 
What form did the assistance take, who received assistance and in what capacity were they given assistance by the Government. 
What Government assistance has the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations received in the last 2 years. 
Can he supply the membership details of the Federation and of each affiliate body. 
Is the supply of details of membership within affiliate bodies a condition of the Government's consideration of financial assistance to the Federation; if so, what details are required. 
Is he also able to say whether the bulk of the Federation's membership is derived from the Australian Consumers Association. 
I was disturbed to read in yesterday's  Courier-Mail  that the Queensland Treasurer and Queensland Minister for Transport are 'heavying' the Brisbane City Council by threatening to reduce the State's commitment in meeting future Council costs, including the Council's administration of public transport. Now, I say I am disturbed, but I am not the least surprised, for in less than one month Brisbane rate payers go to the polls to decide the direction their city takes for the next three years. 
The Brisbane City Council has been corralled by cow cockies. These bully tactics and threats are nothing more than the sort of pre-election huffing and puffing' that we in Queensland have come to expect from our State Government. If the State insists on applying unseemly pressures on the Council and intruding into the municipal election, its record of assistance to Brisbane public transport ought to be revealed to Brisbane rate payers for their scrutiny. 
Brisbane- Australia's largest government authority and one of the largest in the world- is the only capital city authority assuming control over public transport. Running a large metropolitan bus service like Brisbane's is a complex management exercise which requires careful and informed handling of sensitive local issues with a responsible eye to equity considerations. Clearly the local authority is a proper democratic body to handle such matters. The aldermen are directly responsible to their constituents for the standard of their bus service. But, while it can be undeniably demonstrated that Brisbane's bus service is best administered by the City Council, it is most difficult to justify the Council's having to bear from the general rate the majority of costs associated with providing this fundamental service. The State Government is practicing the fine old art of political blackmail. 
The value of my party's conviction that these sorts of services are best funded from the national coffers and administered by regional or local government bodies is completely confirmed and vindicated by Brisbane's experience. That experience has been that the State, as the conduit for the flow of funds to Brisbane's buses, has taken the opportunity of our out-dated feudalistic Federal system to frustrate- indeed to sabotage- public transport in Brisbane. Every metropolitan public transport undertaking in the other States, and the suburban passenger division of Queensland Railways, derive their funding support from Consolidated Revenue accounts of their respective States. For the year 1977-78, the State contribution to Brisbane's buses amounted only to 36 per cent of the anticipated revenue shortfall. The remaining shortfall, estimated at $8.7m, has had to be met by the Council from the general rate. 
Because the State Government's arrangement fails to provide adequate support, rate payers are still required to supply nearly two-thirds of the cost of providing Brisbane, at present fare and wage levels, with its standard of bus services. Furthermore it does not have any inbuilt mechanism allowing for the unavoidable Council expenditure increases, resulting from a variety of cost factors, whose escalation will be at a higher rate than could possibly be absorbed by fare increases. 
Going back several years, I indicate that the Queensland Government applied to the Grant Commission for assistance and based its case for support substantially on Brisbane's public transport. As a result of this factor, Queensland 's grant was increased by more than $7m in 1974-75, more than $6m in 1975-76 and more than $9m in 1976-77. The Queensland Government flatly refused to acknowledge that one cent of that Grants Commission money should have gone to the Brisbane City Council. That is on record. Again the Australian Federal structure has been undermined by the petty politics of a State government. 
The Queensland Government's deceit and duplicity in denying the flow-on from the Grant Commission to the City Council must surely be the most eloquent and convincing argument for the type of national-regional cooperation, and the sort of urban and regional planning, both of which were fostered by the previous Labor Administration. The Queensland Transport Minister's latest incursion into Metropolitan affairs by holding the Council to ransom is cheap politics. As for this Government, its decision to defer the $20m for this year under section 8 of the Urban Public Transport Act is another blow to the Brisbane rate payer. The money is muchneeded, although I hope I have pointed out by now that there is never any guarantee, when working with the Queensland Government, that it will pass on such moneys as the Commonwealth intends to the rightful recipients. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Courier Mail  of 3 November 1 978 in which he is quoted as informing a delegation of ABC staff that the staff-elected commissioner was a dead issue and the Federal Government did not consider it the best way of improving management-staff relations; if so, is there any substance to the report. 
What does he propose as a better way of improving management-staff relations. 
Who is reviewing the present staff ceilings at the ABC, a process which the ABC Staff Association claims will seriously threaten the operations of the Commission. 
When will the review be completed. 
-The purpose of the National Fitness Amendment Bill is to circumvent a particular bureaucratic problem which has its roots in our complicated federal structure. As previous speakers have explained, the only moneys for the national fitness trust funds are those appropriated by this Parliament and gifts. Currently, only the Victorian Government which holds the 'Life. Be In It' copyright receives royalties for the commercialisation of the 'Life. Be In It' logos. These are channelled through the trust funds as gifts on condition that the amounts are used for the 'Life. Be In It' campaign. The extent of the Victorian Government's involvement in the program has changed since November 1977 when the program was launched nationally, although Victoria still holds the relevant copyright. Procedures are currently being followed to have the copyright assigned to the Commonwealth for the duration of the program. This may be done in the near future. 
Since the national launching, the majority of significant decisions affecting the 'Life. Be In It' campaign have been made by the committee comprising representatives of all States and Territories as well as the Commonwealth. This debate provides the opportunity for this House to draw its bow a little wider and include a general reference to the 'Life. Be In It' campaign and the relation that that campaign bears to the state of sport and fitness in this country. I suggest that this is a critical issue as Australia fast approaches the time when it will host the 1982 Commonwealth Games. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be omnipresent at the Commonwealth Games in Brisbane. Doubtless he will be making lofty speeches and adopting the Games as his own. He will take every opportunity to exploit the occasion for its public relations value. The Prime Minister surely needs public relations now more than ever. He and the Premier of Queensland, if they are both still around then, will share the platforms and the glory of the Games. The credit they will steal belongs rightfully to a Labor city council and a Labor lord mayor whose vision and foresight have made the Brisbane Games a reality. 
The Brisbane Council has had to bear all the loud haranguing and constant criticism about the cost of the Games but the Prime Minister will waste no time in stealing the limelight and the credit. That might turn sour for the Prime Minister simply because it is the collective opinion of sporting organisations around Australia that the condition of sport in this country has reached crisis proportions. It is worth noting that that view is held particularly by the Confederation of Australian Sport whose patron-in-chief, incidentally, is his  Excellency  the Governor-General and whose patron is none other than the Prime Minister himself. The Prime Minister may end up with egg on his face if he refuses to confront reality. 
Canada hosted the last Commonwealth Games and carried them away for the first time. How sure can we be of emulating that achievement? Compared with other countries Australia's record for assistance to sport is frankly miserable. If we spend half as much on sport and related areas as we do on what is collectively called 'the arts' on which we spend about $40m, we would be a lot healthier, literally, as a nation and as individuals. Of the $35m a year which the Government receives from sales tax on sporting goods alone only $ 1.33m was allocated in 1978-79 for sport. Whilst Canada spends $1.46 a head on sport and Britain spends 47 cents a head, the Australian Commonwealth 
Government spends only 9 cents a head of population. Like Canada, our size and the cost of travel both within our borders and to other countries, which is essential if we are to improve our international standing, make the financial support of the Federal Government vital. But unlike Canada which spent $32m on assistance for athletes in the Commonwealth Games year of 1978, the Australian commitment to our team was $250,000. 
There is a crying need to review our current expenditure and assess our future needs. I hope that at the next meeting of the Commonwealth and State Recreation Ministers Council in Hobart on 23 March the Council will look at the more effective use of school sporting facilities in off-school hours; the concept of funding facilities on the basis that they be self-supporting; and that it will iron out its differences over a national sports lottery which the predecessor of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  acknowledged in November last year would be worth over $10m per annum to sport in this country. Goodness knows, we need something. 
None of us in this Parliament or outside it has to be reminded of Australia's former glories. The list of our sports heroes includes men and women who have reached a pinnacle of accomplishments in international class in their field of sport. Without their great achievements, the annals of sporting history would be greatly diminished. But it seems lately that the only Australian sporting successes that one reads of are in the history books. They are rarely in the newspapers. Are we history as a leading sporting nation? Frankly, I and a good many others feel that we are. Where I differ with others on this matter is over what should be done as a consequence of that sad fact. Many organisations want what I call gravitational aid. By that I mean that Commonwealth money would go to athletic elites with benefits filtering through to the ranks of sporting Australians below; that is, from the top to the bottom. On the other hand, my contention is that that approach is not only undemocratic and discriminatory, but it also defeats the real long term goals of our assistance. The Government's attention and its money ought to be directed on the broad based sporting organisations- programs for the masses- with the expectation that our stars will rise from within those ranks. They would then be assisted in their pursuit of excellence. 
Our basic goal must be to increase awareness of physical culture and fitness among the mainstream of Australians. We can no longer rely, nor should we even want to rely, on the cream of our sporting talent as our standard bearers while, at the same time, we delude ourselves that our heroes are representative of all Australians. That self-delusion fosters only apathy, obesity and ultimately fatality. We ought to realise that general health and sensible recreation are a precondition to sporting excellence and achievement. How can it profit us to have a handful of 'Newks' and yet a nation of 'Norms'? This principle must lay the basis for a new approach, a fundamental rethinking on assistance to sport. I am fortified in this view by the support of a number of sports people to whom I have spoken. In this respect I thank the former Olympic swimmer Mike VVenden for his suggestion that our sports stars are not only a boost to the nation's flagging morale but they also offer encouragement to our young aspiring athletes. Stars such as Tracey Wickham, from my own city, are a beacon to the young generation. I reaffirm my point that no matter how much we encourage our children to participate in sport while at school, especially team sport, if they do not maintain a level of participation the physical value of their early involvement counts for nothing. 
We rarely maintain interest in team sport after school so we ought to look at the encouragement of individual sports. We rarely emphasise the less exerting sports such as walking and jogging. They are the sorts of activities which are more likely to remain with us throughout our lives. If this Government's commitment to the 'Life. Be In It' campaign is any measure of its support for the notion of broad based assistance for recreation and fitness programs, I am afraid that we have a long way to go. The miserly $600,000 per annum is even less than the $800,000 plus that the Government spends on cap ribbons for the Navy. Of the $600,000 only $34,000 filters through to the National Fitness Council in my State of Queensland. That figure would adequately support one field officer with the usual entitlements and expenditure. 
The priority at Federal and State levels remains the general promotion of the 'Life. Be In It' campaign through the media, particularly television. Public relations constitutes the lion's share of the allocation. I shall devote myself to the effectiveness of this aspect of the program shortly. In Queensland the National Fitness Council redistributes its paltry funds amongst its local branches. Reports I have received from the local National Fitness councils indicate that for some of them their total income from the Queensland National Fitness Council is diminished in real terms, partly because the funding mechanism is dependent on local government support, and local government support in some cases rises and falls from one year to the next. Local National Fitness councils should not be left to the vagaries of local government budgets, nor to the whim of State governments. 
If anything is clear from a reading of the Commonwealth's allocations to national sporting bodies from 1973 to last year it is that we should do two things. Firstly, we should regulate the flow of funds in an orderly fashion with a fixed formula, as the Confederation of Australian Sport has suggested over periods longer than one year; and, secondly, we should assume greater responsibility for sport assistance in place of the lower levels of government. By following the first approach, longer term planning could be achieved and sporting organisations would experience less violent fluctuations in government grants year in and year out. With the second approach, we might eliminate some of the unnecessary bureaucratic wastage and delays which often occur when State governments act as the conduit for Federal funds. By that approach, sporting organisations would be spared dependence on State and local government budgets. 
I commend to honourable members for their consideration a table of the Government's grants to Commonwealth sporting bodies over the fiveyear period 1973 to 1978. 1 hope that the Minister for Home Affairs might be able to give some explanation of the incredible inconsistencies contained in this table. By way of an example of incongruity, I might mention a few grants which have been made. In 1975-76, the Australian Little Athletics Union received $31,546 but only $20,000 in 1977-78. In 1975-76 the Australian Women's Amateur Athletic Union received $12,899 but in 1977-78 it received only $2,000. In 1974-75 the Australian Badminton Association received $1 1,000 while in 1978 it received only $3,500. In 1975-76 the Amateur Basketball Union of Australia received $62,000 and in 1977-78 it received $39,000. One could go on and on with these figures. Whilst the figures that I have mentioned are disappointing generally- I hope the Minister will take the opportunity to expand them- we should be more concerned about what we are doing for the general health and fitness of the nation. I should Uke to refer to the planning document of the 'Life. Be in it' program published by the Victorian Government. It stated: 
We are setting out to broaden the community's concept of activity, to get the majority to be a little more active rather than to get a few more active. We are placing initial emphasis on family involvement, fun, enjoyment and the many and varied ways in which unstructured activity can take place. 
This certainly is inspiring stuff. The evaluation of the campaign prepared by the Victorian Department for Youth, Sport and Recreation provides a valuable insight into the effectiveness of the campaign among the public. It is fair to say that the surveys indicate that the campaign has a remarkable recall factor. Almost eight out of 10 people were able to recall the campaign and 53 persons did so unaided. To my mind, it seems ironic that the medium assessed as clearly the most effective in the campaign- that is, television- is precisely the thing the campaign hopes to attract people away from. 
An interesting detail of the survey shows that none of those who recalled the campaign was made to feel guilty about watching television. It is mildly encouraging to read that in response to the question: 'Has the message caused you to think more about how you could be more active?', just under one-third responded positively. Females and respondents with young families gave a proportionately higher positive response. The response of older male respondents was more likely to be 'lack of time'. I suppose that a few parliamentarians were included in the survey sample. There also seems to be a fairly accurate appreciation of the campaign's theme. As one respondent said: 'You can get fit without extremely difficult or vigorous exerciseand everyone can participate in some way'. The rest of the responses are quite edifying and optimistic. I want to emphasise that it is not my intention to detract in the slightest from the credit owing to this campaign. If anything needs emphasising it is that we must get behind the campaign with far greater financial support. 
-You had better go back to your bees. I will conclude by relating the experience of the West German Government. Again, I am indebted to Mike Wenden for this insight. In 1973 former Chancellor Willy Brandt said that West Germany's health costs had been steadily and dramatically escalating over recent years. The West German Government's response was to inject massive amounts into programs promoting not just super athletes but general fitness and well being. The rewards were soon realised and the health costs spiral stabilised. Instead of paying more to relieve sickness the Government was redirecting those funds to prevent sickness. That is what 'Life. Be in it' is all about- preventive medicine and progressive health. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
What grounds are used to exclude a registered unemployed person from receipt of unemployment benefits. 
What areas in Australia are designated areas of (i) high unemployment and (ii) low unemployment. 
Does his Department encourage unemployed persons registered at a CES office in an area of so-called low employment potential, that is high unemployment, to move to an area of so-called high employment potential where job opportunities might be greater. 
On what basis is employment potential assessed. 
As the number of persons registered for and receiving unemployment benefits at the Gold Coast has fallen, is that said to be an area of high employment potential. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the practice of some CES officials who suggest to unemployed persons registered at CES offices whose employment prospects are said to be poor, that those unemployed persons move to an area which they are led to believe by the same CES officials has more promising employment prospects. 
Has his attention also be drawn to the fact that in most instances where this re-direction has occurred, the unemployed persons are required to register again for unemployment benefits which they may or may not receive after a period of no less than 3 weeks beginning from the date of their re-registration; if so, will he (a) inform the House whether it is a matter of departmental policy and ( b) provide details of which areas in Australia are designated areas of high or low employment prospects, and the statistical or other criteria by which those areas are so designated. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the annual report of the Australian Industries Development Association for 1977-78 which estimates an average increase in the labour force of just over 100,000 persons per annum between 1976 and 1981 and an increase between 1981 and 1986 of just below 100,000 persons per annum taking the present national workforce from a figure of 6.5 million to 7.2 million by 1985, which is an average annual increase of 1.5 per cent; if so, are the projections of his Department substantially the same as those contained in the report. 
Has his attention also been drawn to projections contained in the same report which indicate an increase in the percentage of unemployment from 6 per cent in 1977-78 to about 10 per cent in 1984-85; if so, will he have the projections, and the assumptions upon which they are based, examined and advise whether they are in accordance with the projections of his Department. 
-Two weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  delivered a statement which might have been titled 'The State of the Nation', but it offered a poor comparison with the 'State of the Union' message that is delivered annually by the American  President.  The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in his reply, hit the nail on the head when he said that the Prime Minister's statement was designed to stiffen the backbone of a wilting back bench on the Government side. Of course, we all know what transpired before the end of that fateful day, Thursday 22 February. On Tuesday, 27 February, the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  delivered his own version of that speech.  His  statement was nothing more than a tactical device to divert the attention of the Parliament from scrutiny of the Prime Minister and his relationships with Ministers and to dissipate the smell of controversy which envelops his Government. If that were not his intention, the time accorded to the censure debate on Thursday, 22 February would have been equal to that given to this debate. 
Australia, undeniably, is a small country in the international spectrum. Our voice in international affairs is nothing more than a whisper. Our only opportunity to influence the course of events in any foreign situation is provided when we speak out in unison with other countries in the family of nations. In the case of the most recent flashpoint in world affairs, Indo-China, the Government's criticism and protest has been so muted as to be completely unnoticeable in the world forum. But from what one may perceive of our position in Australia our response to events, no matter how insignificantly it is received, is demonstrably one-sided. The histrionics of the Prime Minister, the way in which he rolled his Foreign Minister in that Minister's absence, and the hostility and sabre rattling of his criticism of Vietnam are in contrast to the back seat approach which he took in responding to the Chinese punitive intrusion.  His  hasty and abrasive withdrawal of aid to Vietnam effectively undermined any leverage or influence that Australia might have exercised in a combined effort to resolve the conflict. 
For the Prime Minister and his Government to remain even-handed the Government would have to consider severing such ties with China. Clearly, that is an absurd consideration. But the antagonism and aggression of the Prime Minister's reaction in the case of the Vietnamese invasion is quite apparently at odds with his virtual indifference, in diplomatic terms, towards the Chinese invasion. This variation is construed by the countries involved as blatant bias. In his haste to make political capital, the Prime Minister has assisted in isolating Vietnam, and no sophistry from the Sun Lamp Kid can hide that. 
Earlier this month, when the Western world was firmly in the grip of an oriental euphoria- I suppose one could call it sinophilia- the Opposition sounded a warning. Its spokesman in another place cautioned that it was unwise to believe that future relations with China would be any easier or less complicated than they had been in the past. China's principal preoccupation at the moment is its dispute with its neighbour, the Russian bear. China will continue to press this point, regardless of other countries' viewpoints. Its relations with other countries revolve entirely around its power play with Russia. The establishment between the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of sound and effective relations on which to found a basic trust is the central most important international issue of our time and of the near future. With their overwhelming military power, these two nations hold the key to the prevention of universal calamity. China's shift in domestic policy, multilateral relations and public relations is as impressive as it is revolutionary. But the point must be made, and emphasised, that that dramatic change, both internal and external, should serve to remind us that similar changes- just as revolutionary and just as swift- could occur again in the future. 
What the Opposition has been saying is that all our eggs should not be in the one basket. The Opposition was firmly opposed to the excesses of the Pol Pot regime in Kampuchea. It was firmly opposed to the invasion of Kampuchea by the Hanoi regime. It is firmly opposed to the incursion of the Peking Government in to Vietnam. We pray that the USSR will continue to exercise restraint and avoid provocative incidents with Peking. 
It must be an acute embarrassment for the Foreign Minister to enter this Parliament and give lip-service to policies and actions about which he is at best half-hearted. He employed his usual theatrical delivery in making his statement last Tuesday, but one sensed that his heart just was not in it. In fact, it is well known that he vehemently opposes aspects of his Government's foreign policy, but his presence in the House is completely overshadowed by the dominance of the Prime Minister, whose own influence and impression are indelibly stamped on foreign affairs policy. The Foreign Minister merely serves as the Prime Minister's public relations agent- and the Prime Minister needs public relations now more than ever. The Prime Minister, in June 1976, made his position concerning China and the USSR crystal clear. From the outset he chose to adopt transparently partisan views. His impetuous decision to terminate aid to, and cultural exchanges with, Vietnam was taken against the advice of his Foreign Minister and his Department. His personal prejudices have clouded his judgment as Prime Minister. He appears to have acted with undue haste in an attempt to create the impression or illusion of toughness, with no proper thought to the consequences. Despite the assurance of the Foreign Minister, this one-eyed anti-Moscow policy is no guarantee of peace in the region. 
The Foreign Minister's lack of command, and his total subjugation by the Prime Minister, are not so conveniently rationalised away as he would hope. The Prime Minister is an embarrassment to the Foreign Minister who, in his own inimitable way, has attempted to keep Australia on the same steady course in international affairs as was set by his Labor predecessor,  Senator Willesee.  He has, I suggest, been ineffective in pursuing this course. He has had interference from above. 
The Foreign Minister spoke of the relations with the developing countries. Under this Government, Australia's relations with the Third World have been retarded. Only in the last month has the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  grasped the real magnitude of the enormous trade benefits which the oil-rich Third World nations could offer to Australia. But the context of our relations with the Third World is still based on the question of what is in it for us. That approach is practical to a degree only. The Foreign Minister himself will have to realise that the Third World is a potentially awesome force. If it were isolated and ignored by the world community and if its needs were not understood, appreciated and met, its hostility could challenge the world order. It is simply in our long term interest- not to mention consistent with basic human values, the principles of charity and the brotherhood of nations- that we extend our hand of friendship, assistance and trade to these peoples. I should address myself to a statement made last week by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I am sorry that he is not here this evening.  His  suggestion that something of an Islamic holocaust might descend maliciously on this country must be one of the most extraordinary and inflammatory statements made in this Parliament. I suppose in the absence of the old Liberal shibboleth of the yellow peril we need something to fill the vacuum of paranoia. If the honourable member for Kennedy, a former Minister for the Army, is any prophet we may soon find ourselves shadow boxing with the Muslims to the north and that would include the sleeping giant of Indonesia. We could, perhaps, see Australia's relations with its near northern neighbour reduced to the level of confrontation and tension which existed in the time of Menzies and Sukarno. Despite the provocation of statements, such as those made by the honourable member for Kennedy, we should not underestimate the significance of the religious components in Iran's current revolution. Before I touch on that subject I remind honourable members of the wise words of advice from the Foreign Minister who has been quoted recently as saying that we should not overestimate the situation, but on the other hand we should not underestimate it. I think, perhaps, he has been hanging around the diplomats too long. 
With regard to Iran, the religion infrastructure and the very nature of the particular denomination of Islam practised in Iran have set the foundations for the revolution. It is without doubt one of the most remarkable of contemporary revolutions. It serves as an example to an agnostic, hedonistic world that religion is still a great mover of men. Hardly anything could be added to the volumes of comment and analysis which have accompanied the fall of the Shah and the rise of the Ayatollah. However, I stress one point in the Iranian revolution which concerns Australia and that is that the Australian Government's decision to tie the country's petrol prices to world parity could not have been more ill-timed. Petrol costs more than $ 1 per gallon by the old standard. Looking back three or four years no one, apart perhaps from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  would ever have considered that situation even a remote possibility in such a short period. 
When the Whitlam Government froze home crude prices and blamed overseas costs for half our inflation the then Opposition loudly insisted it was Labor's fault. The former Treasurer and Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  was an honourable exception. The thing is, we can produce most of our fuel well below world prices. As it is, Australian motorists will once again be hit in just over a month's time when the Council of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets to fix oil prices in the wake of the situation in Iran. The voice of moderation, coming from the Saudis, will not stem the inevitable escalation. Australians will end up paying well over $2 per gallon. 
Before concluding I should note that Australia's response to the latest, most critical international development appears to be ignorance of the changing fortunes of alliances among countries and as well to be quite incoherent. The Government has called for a full assessment of the effect of recent events on Australia's strategic position. Surely such assessment should be available to the Government on an immediate and ongoing basis. It must beg the inevitable question, are our diplomats up to scratch and doing their job? The answer to that may well be worth another debate. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report published in Column 8 of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 16 October 1978, regarding an advertisement in the employment opportunities section of the monthly American magazine, the  Saturday Evening Post,  which stated 'Australia-New Zealand wants you-50,000 jobs. Information $2-AUSTCO, Box 8489-S, Long Beach, California'. 
If so, is it a fact that there is less than half the number of jobs available in Australia as are advertised. 
Will he take immediate action to inform American authorities how the employment situation in Australia is being misrepresented by AUSTCO with its false advertising in American magazines. 
-A very wise man, educated in parliamentary matters, once told me that one could always tell how weak and feeble a Bill was going to be by the number of times the Bill's clauses began with the words 'The Minister may'. Judging by that test, this Bill is well and truly feeble. The Prices Justification Tribunal until now was merely emasculated, just a eunuch. Now the Minister has gone one better and made it completely incapacitated. By introducing this Bill, the Government is essentially having the best of both worlds. The Government is, on the one hand, doing something which has proven to be quite rare and foreign to its nature- that is, it is honouring an election promise. It has been a while since we have seen this Government do exactly that. That promise was to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal, and to all intents and purposes that is precisely the effect of this Bill. On the other hand, the Government is seen to be retaining the bare bones of the PJT in order to appease the lobby that has worked so  diligently to have  the Tribunal preserved. For that lobby, this Bill must be the last nail in their coffin. 
As well as attempting to alter the Tribunal in order to make it completely useless, the Government has aimed its assault at the individuals who try to make the PJT work. The latest example of that tactic has been the Government's failure to renew the commission of  Mr Michael  Long.  Mr Long's  unpardonable offence was to exercise sound and impartial judgment in a number of inquiries, particularly in relation to the treatment of advertising.  Mr Long  compounded his felony by participating in one of the few PJT inquiries which actually recommended a cut in prices. Half-way through last year, the inquiry into wool broking charges recommended lower wool broking commission rates. Now, in the midst of inquiries following as a consequence of that decision,  Mr Long  has been compelled to resign. I understand the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has declined to comment on the reasons for  Mr Long's  sacking, but they are clear enough now. I challenge the Minister to stand up in this Parliament and refute the allegation that  Mr Long  was sacked because he was just too effective. In  Mr Long's  case, independence and tenacity have been repaid with retrenchment. 
I also challenge the Minister to stand by his statement to this House that the trade unions, in their discussions on the fate of the PJT, expressed the view that the PJT should be retained only in its present form. I suggest that the unions were not even happy about the PJT in its present form. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has displayed unrelenting insensitivity and complete bias in his approach to the dual policy matters of wage restraint and inflation. If we accept the need for wage restraint, and the desire to give effect to such a policy, then we must be prepared to compromise and accommodate. But, of course, conciliation is not part of the Prime Minister's armour. He should have bargained wages against prices, using an effective PJT as a lever to ply unions with his wages policy. Instead, he inveighs long and loud about wage increases when, in fact, real wages have fallen. At the same time, he opens the door to companies for unrestrained price hikes. How can he reconcile the two unless, of course, it is his intention to antagonise wage earners and their unions. 
The total elimination of the Prices Justification Tribunal as an effective prices control body or even as a public surveillance body comes at a time when economic indicators are pointing to a renewed bout of price rises. It is worth noting that these indicators followed predictions which members of the Opposition had been making for some time. The Opposition made the point as early as 17 January this year that prices of basic inputs in our production processes are inflating at an incredible rate. The index of materials used in manufacturing industry has increased by almost 20 per cent in the 12 months to October 1978, with the use of non-imported materials rising by an extraordinary 28.3 per cent. The full effects of these increases are only now being realised. Already the index of prices of manufactured articles has risen from an annual growth rate of 7.3 per cent at this time last year to 9.4 per cent in November 1978 and 10.7 per cent in January 1979. 
Meat prices, like those for other rural produce, are sky-rocketing. Food prices rose by more than 12 per cent during last year and are set for a much larger increase this year. I made the forecast a month ago that beef prices would rise substantially and shortages would occur in the number of cattle available for slaughter. At the time I was told by the  President  of the Australian Cattlemen's Federation that I was politicking, but even he could not deny the basic truth in the prediction. Prices of those commodities which last year fell prone to the Government's horrendous 1978-79 Budget have further aggravated the inflationary trend. As well as that, we are all keenly aware of the pressures from abroad and from within which are pushing up petrol prices. The clearly discernible rise in the consumer price index is worrying many business observers. We would find that it worries a good many people on the Government's back bench and in the Ministry, if they were prepared to admit it. Of course, it hardly needs to be said that a revitalised inflationary spiral is viewed with fear and alarm by those on fixed incomes- incomes which this Government has callously ensured remain stagnant. 
I will spare government members from a recital of the Government's miserable record in the area of pensions and benefits adjustments. It is a record about which I know that many of them are deeply concerned. I cannot emphasise too strongly the point that the pensioners of this country are now incensed about the fall in the real value of their pensions since this Government was installed. Those pensioners have indicated that they will become openly rebellious when renewed inflation further undermines their buying power. In the face of new price inflation, the Government has had the nerve or the stupidity to remove even the nominal restraint on prices which previously applied. At the very least, it could hardly be seen to be good public relations. After all, the PJT was only a shell of its former self. Ever since the 1976 amendment it has been a toothless paper tiger. 
I found out just how powerless it was when what seemed to be an unnecessary increase in beer prices was recently foisted on the Brisbane public without any notice, let alone investigation by a public body. I commented at the time that increases in beer prices should have been referred to the PJT. Judging from the coverage that the statement received in the media, most of the journalists and the public strongly supported the suggestion. The increase followed a hard and bitter strike by brewery workers in Brisbane which sent many families broke and many mouths dry. 
After weeks- almost months- of confrontation the workers received a few extra dollars a week. The brewery decided in a matter of a few minutes simply to raise the price of its product. How convenient it would be for every wage earner if he could increase his salary so easily. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was explaining how the brewery workers of Brisbane after weeks, almost months, of confrontation received only a few extra dollars in their pay packets and how the breweries decided in a matter of a few minutes simply to raise the prices of their products. I also explained how convenient it would have been if every wage earner could have increased his salary so easily. There were aspects about the breweries' profitability and general status that made one question whether the cost increase to the breweries should have been passed on to the consumer and so I suggested such a rise ought to be reviewed by the Prices Justification Tribunal. Of course, this Government's 1976 amendment to the Prices Justification Act ensured that companies such as the breweries involved in the Brisbane price rise would fall outside the PJT's net. 
The obligation to notify price increases was made applicable only to companies in the $30m annual turnover bracket. In fact this reduced by over one half the number of companies notifying the PJT of their intention to raise prices. Now, as my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has already pointed out, there is no longer even the need for companies in any bracket to notify the Tribunal of price rises; that is except for companies which, under section 1 7B, the PJT has determined to be 'prescribed ' companies which must notify the Tribunal of price increases 'for a period of up to 12 months or such longer period as approved by the Minister'. If any action is to be taken by the Tribunal it will have to be following an increase, and the possibility of reversing such a rise would be at best remote. 
The main provisions of this Bill will repeal sections 4 and 5 of the principal Act; that is, the legislation will strike out all references to the requirements that companies must satisfy in order to be included within the Tribunal's jurisdiction. One must wonder whose price rises are to be or not to be reviewed? I suggest that is the burning question. The answer to this question is contained in the text of the amendments to sections 16 and 17 of the principal Act. Specifically, proposed new sub-section 16 (3) states: 
The Tribunal shall conduct such prices justification inquiries as it is required to conduct by notice given by the Minister under section 17 and may, with the approval of the Minister, conduct such other prices justification inquiries as it thinks fit. 
The impression left from a cursory reading of that proposed new sub-section would suggest that the Tribunal can conduct inquiries as it thinks fit. A closer reading indicates that the PJT moves entirely at the behest of the Minister. In all the Bill there are something like 2 1 references such as 'The Minister may', or 'with the approval of the Minister', or 'The Minister, in his discretion'. It does not take a legislative genius to see who is going to pull the strings or call the shots. Part (4) of the Opposition's amendment makes plain our complete rejection of the greatly increased power of the Minister 'to direct and restrict the Tribunal' subjecting it to 'considerable political influence and control in its day-to-day operations'. 
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd lobby and the oil companies which are raping this country- and I know that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  agrees with that description- are the real winners. The PJT may be still alive but I suggest it is not kicking. What a welcome relief it will be to oil companies- especially Shell- not to go through the rigors of public investigation and scrutiny. No longer will they be required to provide the public with details of their excessive service station rent increases and other underhanded aspects of their business management. Last year I called on the PJT to give greater regard to the exorbitant rents which some oil companies were imposing on small garage lessees, including increases of up to 300 per cent. The reason, of course, that these increases should be taken into account is that, by raising rents, the companies are in effect making garage owners either put off employees or push up prices. The oil companies increase their revenue without going to the PJT for approval. 
That was only one of a number of standard ways the oil companies could circumvent the Tribunal and end up ripping off the consumer. I heard the honourable member for Franklin refer to how the oil companies have been ripping off the consumers for years. Now they do not need any fancy footwork. They need only to rely on their sizeable contributions to the coffers of the Liberal and National Country parties to buy them all the influence they require. The Minister and his Government have brought this Bill into the Parliament to bury the Tribunal, not to praise it. The Opposition's prediction will come true. 
These changes to the PJT will weaken the Tribunal and open the doors to inflation. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his reply in the debate on the Prices Justification Tribunal Amendment Bill last night stated that I had been offensive to  Mr Michael  Long, a former member of the Prices Justification Tribunal, by claiming he had been sacked by the Government. In his speech last night the Minister stated: 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Griffith is not in the House now because I believe his remarks, implying that  Mr Long  had been sacked, were quite offensive to that former member of the PJT. He served the Commonwealth for a period of five years as a member of that Tribunal. The fact of the matter is that his five-year appointment expired and he has not been re-appointed by the Government. 
I emphasise that point: 'He has not been reappointed by the Government'. If that is not the sack, I would like to know what is. If anyone has offended  Mr Long  it is the Minister, for not renewing his commission. 
-Have representations been made to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs asserting that section 53 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 has been contravened by certain companies in relation to misleading advertisements by those companies regarding the sale of land at Russell Island in Moreton Bay near Brisbane? In the event that any misleading advertising or deceptive conduct over the sale of land at Russell Island has taken place, will the Minister give an assurance that the terms of the Act will be enforced? Does the Act not apply to those advertisements because of the one year statute of limitations? Will he consider retrospective legislation to amend the statute of limitations in respect of the Trade Practices Act? Will the Minister also consider inquiring into an advertisement placed in the  Sunday Telegraph  on 5 March this year which suggested that land on Russell Island will be bought back by the Redlands Shire Council, which has in turn denied such a suggestion? 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the sum of underpayment or arrears in wages which Commonwealth industrial inspectors have discovered in Queensland during the last S years. 
How many prosecutions were necessary to recoup the underpayments or arrears. 
How many prosecutions are now pending and for how long have they been pending. 
-When I took my seat in this Parliament, I undertook to represent all the people in my electorate without fear or favour. It has recently come to light, thanks partly to the endeavour of my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  that not all of the members of this Parliament have made the same commitment to serve all their electors, regardless of how they have voted or might vote in the future. I understand from a news report that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  received in his office two weeks ago six Government members. They were four back benchers, one Minister and one senator who was a former Minister. The discussion was based on the Government's action in disposing of Defence Service Homes Corporation land in five electorates- electorates represented by the four back benchers and a Minister; the senator took only a passive role in the meeting. 
The normal procedure adopted by the Department of Administrative Services in disposing of such land is to give first option to the State governments. The short of it is that the five members of this House who saw the Prime Minister were worried that if the Government followed that procedure, that State governments would acquire the land for purposes of building housing commission homes in their electorates. The 'fearful five' were worried because they knew that housing commission homes are usually occupied by Labor voters, and each of the five have marginal electorates. The background to the story is that on 8 November last year the then Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Chaney,  and the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  released a statement that the Commonwealth Government would dispose of 950 hectares held by the Defence Service Homes Corporation by selling it at public auction; a departure from the usual procedure. I seek leave to incorporate this statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 77ie  statement read as follows- 
Over 900 well located residential building blocks, mainly in the State capitals, are to be offered for sale by the Commonwealth for private home building. 
The land together with about 950 hectares of undeveloped and partly developed land is surplus to the requirements of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
The Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator the Hon.  F. M. Chaney, and the acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Mr R.  V. Garland, announced the decision to sell the land today. 
The developed building lots comprise 330 blocks in New South Wales, 88 in Victoria, 224 in Queensland, 190 in South Australia and 109 in Western Australia. These blocks would first be offered by tender to people eligible for a Defence Service Homes loan. A reserve price based on current market valuation would be applied and the sale would be based on written tenders. 
Details of the land on offer would be advertised in the press shortly and would be available from offices of the Department of Administrative Services in each State. 
People who are unsure of their eligibility to tender for building lots should enquire at the nearest office of the Defence Service Homes Corporation. These offices are located in all capital cities as well as in Newcastle, Wollongong, Ballarat and Townsville. 
The undeveloped land on offer includes 238.8 hectares in New South Wales with the potential yield of 2,002 building lots; 294.1 hectares in Victoria with the potential yield of 2,423 lots; 196.3 hectares in Queensland with the potential yield of 2,001 lots; 87.8 hectares in South Australia with the potential yield of 733 lots and 95.4 hectares in Western Australia with the potential yield of 742 lots. 
In addition, the Corporation has partly developed land on offer comprising 19.9 hectares in Victoria with the potential yield of 206 lots and 16.6 hectares in Western Australia with the potential yield of 125 lots. 
The Ministers said that normally surplus Commonwealth land is offered to State and local government authorities prior to public offer. However, as the land had been acquired originally for private home building, the Government felt that it should be disposed of for this purpose. 
I thank the House. I know that at least two Premiers, the Premiers of New South Wales and Western Australia, contacted the Prime Minister to voice their opposition to such action, pointing out that the normal process should be observed. I understand that the Prime Minister replied with an apology, assuring the Premiers that the decision would be reviewed. The State governments are still waiting for a decision on that review. Like most members of this House, my office receives frequent requests for housing commission homes, even though it is a State responsibility. Thousands of people have waited for years on the Commission's list. How must they feel to know that members of this Parliament are deliberately resisting and stalling the development of more commission homes? The members of the 'fearful five', according to the report, were the honourable for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and, interestingly, the honourable member for Stirling, who is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I am glad that  Mr Viner  is present this evening and can dispute that report if he wishes to do so. But seeing that none of the five members named in the report, including the Prime Minister, has since come into this House and claimed to be misrepresented, I can conclude only that it is a fair and accurate record. 
My interest is mainly in Brisbane. I have discovered that the Defence Service Homes Corporation has land in five areas, namely, Bracken Ridge, Runcorn, Tiagum, Wishart, Thornlands and Rochedale. I know from my colleague in the Queensland Parliament, the member for Archerfield, that the Housing Commission has shown interest in at least two areas, Bracken Ridge and Tiagum, both of which are in the electorate of Lilley. The honourable member for Lilley is a former Housing Minister and must be keenly aware of the pressing need for housing in Brisbane. I implore him and his colleagues to reconsider their opposition to having housing commission homes built in their electorates, and call on the Prime Minister to adopt the usual procedure. 
-I was amazed to hear last evening the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  say what a great Minister the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is and how he cares about Tasmania. What a lot of nonsense. Let me quote from  Hansard  the Minister's own words on how he feels about the Tasmanian railways: 
Whether we like it or not- I do not like it- the Tasmanian Railways have to be part of the Australian national railway system. 
The Minister said he did not like it. Let me refer also to clause 3 of the Bill, which provides for certain definitions, including the period of applicability of the Act, which is to be five yean from 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1983. It lists the States to which the Act will apply as New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. There is no mention whatsover of Tasmania. How ludicrous it is for the honourable member for Denison to say that the Minister for Transport cares about Tasmania. The Minister's second reading speech was blinding in its lack of clarity and shattering in its evasion of the facts. The Bill itself is confirmation, yet again, of this Government's failure to stand by the terms of its acknowledged commitments and election promises. In one short, sharp sentence we are told that payments to the States will be in the form of 'an interest bearing repayable section 96 grant'. That statement contains two details of the payment. It is a constitutional provision by which payment will be made- that is, section 96 of the Australian Constitution, or the 'strings' clause as some may know it- and, secondly, the form in which the payment will be made, that is, an interest bearing repayable grant. On the first detail the Government is adopting an approach not unacceptable to this side of the House although perhaps it is at odds with the Government's federalism policy. 
It is understandable that when Premiers see section 96 written into Federal legislation the hairs on the backs of their necks stand up and they get hot under the collar. The reason is that section 96 lays down that financial assistance may be provided to any State 'on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit.' This phrase grants the Commonwealth Government more latent power than perhaps any other section in the whole body of the Constitution. It is, and has been shown to be, a key in extending Federal assistance to new areas of State jurisdiction. The Minister said in his second reading speech that the railways research and development organisation would advise him and his State colleagues on such matters as priorities for scheduling projects and that this would be 'an important step in furthering the national approach to national issues'. He was referring, of course, to the power inherent in section 96, which enables the Government to assist the States on its own terms and conditions. This naturally strikes fear into the hearts of all States rights conscious Premiers, not the least of whom is the Premier of Queensland. Notwithstanding that, I applaud the Minister for the concept of a national approach to what is rightly a national issue. I shall refer to that approach later in connection with projects in my home State. 
I take this opportunity, however, to express my strong reservations about the willingness and ability of this Government to commit itself competently and responsibly to a national approach to anything, let alone main line upgrading. That leads me to comment on the second detail of payments to the States referred to by the Minister, that is, the interest bearing grant. That expression is an English teacher's nightmare. It is a contradiction in terms, a paradox. The word grant' must surely refer to a sum supplied gratis, or free of the need for repayment. How could such a payment then be repayable with interest? It is simply not a grant, but a loan. As for the interest on that loan, we are left in the dark. Perhaps the Minister might be so gracious as to inform the House ofthe amount of interest which will be imposed on these loans. Will it be in the order of 8 per cent or 10 per cent? I ask that not only on behalf of this Parliament but also on behalf of the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. Surely they have a right to know also. 
In order to excuse the form in which the Government is making the loan, the Minister points out that State Governments traditionally run their railways as much as possible on business lines and that they have provided capital from State sources on an interest bearing basis. That statement, apart from being unsound and misleading in fact, is also groundless in principle. The spurious principle that underpins the statement is this: If a State government provides a State instrumentality with repayable funds, then so too can the Federal Government provide funds on the same interest bearing basis to State governments. It is an absurd principle and a very poor excuse for providing loans- not grants- to the State governments. The point lost by the Minister is that State authorities have an ultimate responsibility to their State governments. It may surprise the Minister that State governments have independent and sovereign authority. On that point it would be in the best interest of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to take note of that constitutional fact and to stop badgering and heavying the New South Wales Government on its decision to allow a 37'/2 hour week to employees of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. 
More specifically, on the provision of loansnot grants- for the upgrading of main lines, why break the pattern of making non-repayable grants to the States, which pattern this Minister has followed in his allocations for urban public transport and roads? Surely, in the case of interstate main line connections, there is an even stronger argument for generous Commonwealth assistance than there is for urban public transport. Main line upgrading is- as the Minister himself acknowledged- a national issue, not just the isolated problem of a metropolitan authority or a State government. One area of the legislation in which I feel there should be greater co-operation with the States is clause 4(2) which entitles the Minister to declare lines other than inter-capital lines and main lines. The Minister says that 'naturally' he would be guided by his State colleagues but I say that in intergovernment relations nothing is natural and therefore nothing can be assumed. What prevents the Government from explicitly providing for State consultation in the terms ofthe Bill? 
Of course, my main interests centre on activities in my own State and in my own electorate. In that regard I should like to address myself specifically to the Brisbane-Sydney rail link. It disturbs me greatly to find that this line is the most congested of all main lines in Australia. That is borne out by the Bureau of Transport Economics report on the Brisbane-Sydney link. The report states that the line 'will become seriously congested in the mid-1980s unless upgrading action is taken'. The methodology applied to assess upgrading takes two aspects into consideration. Firstly, it takes into consideration the commercial viewpoint of the railway systems; that is, the balance between the cost of upgrading and financial benefit- increased revenue and diminished operating costs- and secondly, the viewpoint of the community, that is, the benefits, direct and indirect, accruing to the public from certain innovations from within the railway network. For example, the upgrading of main lines will result in certain economies, thus lowering costs for railway authorities. In turn, this is passed on to the consumer who, hopefully, makes greater use of the railways, thereby realising the social benefit of reduced usage of private road transport. That social benefit is realised in terms of both reduced carnage on Brisbane Sydney roads- which concerns me as a member ofthe Standing Committee on Road Safety- and in greater energy savings. 
People must be attracted to using trains. The late arrival of passenger trains on the BrisbaneSydney route has prompted some people, perhaps unkindly, to call the rail link the 'missing link'. I agree entirely with the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  that it was remiss of the Bureau of Transport Economics not to make greater reference in its report to the advantages of the replacement of the wooden bridges on that Une, which would save at least 30 minutes on the inter-city timetable. That is just one improvement which would add to the route's attraction to travellers. Regarding the commercial attraction of upgrading the SydneyBrisbane line, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  tables 6.2 to 6.7 of the Bureau of Transport Economics report entitled Mainline Upgrading- Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Sydney-Brisbane rail link. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
With reference to his reply to my question No. 2805  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 1 14), is it a fact that pensioners contributing to the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, as a result of the 1 November 1978 health insurance changes, are now required to pay approximately $5 more (at the medical benefits fund monthly family rate) for 100 per cent cover for the scheduled fee plus extra cover. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) How many staff are employed or will be employed in the Government Information Unit. 
What is the designation and salary for each member of the staff. 
Apart from salary, what other entitlements of a pecuniary nature does each staff member receive. 
Where will the unit be located. 
How many telex machines and vocadex units will be used exclusively by the Unit 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
When does he propose to reply in full to my letter of 18 January 1 979 concerning the various boards of the Australia Council. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Will he. in co-operation with shipping unions, initiate discussions with foreign shipping lines trading regularly with Australia to encourage them to have a proportion of their ship maintenance and repair work undertaken in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) How many Australian National Line flag ships were repaired in dry dock outside Australia in the last S years. 
When were the ships docked and in which foreign pons. 
3 ) What was the cost of each docking. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Are there any teething problems in the operation of Sales Tax Assessment (Nos 1 to 9) Amendment Acts 1978 in regard to- 
manufacturing industry generally, 
industry associated with the cutting of gemstones; and 
the repair industry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that many religious, service, welfare and country-based organisations are unable to continue publication and distribution of essential literature as a result of postal increases effective at the beginning of 1 979. 
If so, has he made any attempt to persuade Australia Post to rescind this decision and re-introduce more favourable rates for those organisations. 
Has he received a letter dated 16 November 1978 from the Reverend Frank Lowe, Secretary, Australian Religious Press Association, expressing the great concern felt by his and other similar associations at the introduction of higher rates for registered publications produced by those organisations; if so, what was the nature of his reply. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
In what way will the Community Youth Support Scheme be affected by the introduction of the proposed Voluntary Youth Community Support Scheme. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What property and facilities are owned or leased by the Commonwealth Government in the Electoral Division of Griffith. 
On what dates was each property acquired or leased, from whom was it acquired or leased and what was the cost involved in each case. 
Where the Commonwealth Government has leased property or facilities, for what purpose has the lessee acquired the property or facility, what are the terms of the lease, and who was the agent involved in each transaction. 
It would have occurred to only a few people watching the John Crook morning show on TVQ Channel 0 in Brisbane five years ago that the announcer who gave such enthusiastic reports about the delights of the Hawaiian beaches and the splendours of the New Zealand mountains would one day be delivering to this Parliament such a solemn report on the state of tourism in this country. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  has come a long way since his days as the spokesman on travel of a morning television chat show. Honourable members on both sides of this House believe that under a different leader he will go even further. I am sure also that the honourable member for Bowman appreciates the assistance given to him in formulating the report by my late colleague and friend, the  Hon.  Frank Stewart. 
As the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism has indicated throughout this report, Australia abounds in natural scenic resources which, if properly developed, maintained and promoted, would make it a five-star class tourist area. As a feature in today's  CourierMail  indicated, we could surely join tourism's big league. Nevertheless, in the travel explosion that has rocked the world following the introduction of cheap air fares to just about anywhere, Australia seems to be going with a whimper rather than a bang. Like King Canute, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  tried to resist a flood- in this case the flood of cheap air fares that has struck the world. When he finally accepted the inevitable and capitulated by introducing his new regime on air fares we saw what a clever magician he is. Anyone who has even casually assessed his or her chance of taking an overseas trip using the new cheap air fares has come to the conclusion that the whole exercise is a sham, a fraud and a deceit. The airlines should be careful that they do not overstep the mark in promoting their fares because they could come dangerously close to being involved in misleading advertising. 
The Committee has rightly referred to the need to co-ordinate tourism and transport policy-making. Even if the Minister for Transport had introduced legitimate low air fares, Australia would have been woefully illprepared to cope with the consequences. If the great hordes of foreign tourists who were predicted before the introduction of low air fares had eventuated, our tourist facilities would have been swamped. If, on the other hand, as others have forecast, lower fares made foreign fields look a lot greener to Australian tourists, their introduction would have led to a great exodus of tourists, taking with them the tourist dollar. The tourist crunch is coming just as surely as the Australian electorate will demand, legitimately, lower internal and international air fares. Before the crunch comes we have time to equip ourselves and the tourism industry so that, firstly, if we are swamped we will be able to cope and, secondly, we can offer Australian tourists an attractive domestic alternative to a jaunt to Bangkok, Fiji or even London. 
It is not unrealistic to talk about competing with such countries and cities. With each State 's unique attractions to offer, I do not feel that I am portraying undue prejudices in saying that Queensland alone can surely put Australia on the tourist map. Of Queensland 's many and varied attractions, the Great Barrier Reef stands out as a potential mecca for international tourists. 
Already it is a favourite spot for the many Australians who can afford it. Queensland's individuality has already marked it to the extent that to many southerners Queensland needs only its own currency to confirm it as a foreign destination. Whilst I deplore the style of leadership, or dictatorship, that has earned Queensland its title of 'the deep north', I believe that from a tourist point of view we should foster the notion in the south of Australia that Queensland is different because, as far as tourism is concerned, it is a salable commodity. 
Hopefully the Australian Tourist Commission will appreciate this view and will adopt the approach of promoting Australia as having two distinct types of holidays to offer- the southern Australian holiday and the northern Australian holiday. What the south has to offer I shall leave to the southerners. The northern holiday could concentrate on Australia's two greatest natural wonders. I do not mean the Premier of Queensland or his  deputy, Mr Camm.  I refer to Ayers Rock and the Great Barrier Reef. I feel compelled to raise the matter of the future of the reef in the context of this debate. The Premier of Queensland lacks the ability to appreciate the need to preserve an asset like the Belle Vue Hotel. It seems that he is also unaware of the unique value of the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Great Barrier Reef has faced serious threats and menaces over the years. However, the greatest threat comes not from the elements or organisms of nature but from man- and, in particular, from one man, the Premier of Queensland. That man's potential for ruining the reef makes the havoc wrought on the reef by the Crown of Thorns starfish look like a blessing. All the unmistakable signs are there. Queenslanders know of the long-standing conviction of the Premier and his sometimes faithful  deputy,  the Minister for Mines, that drilling on land, at sea, or anywhere else is always justified. Those convictions were expressed yet again at Chistmas when the Minister for Mines called for a renewal of oil exploration on the reef. The feelers went out once again to probe public opinion. I wish to quote from a letter dated 22 February 1979 to the Australian Conservation Foundation by well-known author and television commentator,  Mr Gerald  Durrell, who is associated with many wildlife preservation trusts round the world. In this letter  Mr Durrell  refers to his 'favourite comic character', the Queensland Minister for Mines. He states: 
For futility, stupidity and dangerousness, I have always considered him - 
The Mines Minister-  to be Australia 's answer to Idi Amin. 

 Mr Durrell went on to say that in lectures he gives all over the world he uses a quotation from the Minister as an example of how, to quote  Mr Durrell,  'we are governed all over the world by illiterates'. The quote he uses in his lectures is: 
As every school boy knows, oil floats on the surface of water and coral lives underneath, therefore an oil spill could not damage it. 
He went on to say: 
Please, I beg of you, should he - 
The Minister for Mines-  come up with any more ecology-defying statements, do let me know. If  1  ever get back to Australia I think it would be terribly amusing to organise a television show with  Mr Camm  so that the public could get some idea of his deep biological knowledge and his grasp of the whole ecological problem of the Barrier Reef. 
As for the Federal Government, my colleague the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  recalled that there had been repeated expressions of opposition to mining from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Cabinet, yet they always seemed to be contradicted or clouded over by other assertions that are misleading, evasive or equivocal. Let us face it, when it comes to this Government's stand on mining the reef, it has more twists than Chubby Checker. We have had a number of what might be called lawyers' statements' from the Government. When I read them, I watch carefully for the loopholes.The latest came from the Prime Minister in a 'complete and unequivocal' guarantee that the Government would not allow any drilling or mining on the Reef. We all know, particularly the pensioners of Australia, just how worthless the Prime Minister's guarantees are. The loophole in the Prime Minister's Great Barrier Reef assurance is the designation of where the reef begins and ends. The Prime Minister asked: 
Are we talking about one or two kilometres, 20 or 50 kilometres? 
I infer from that that if the Prime Minister stopped at 50 kilometres he must think that 50 kilometres is the maximum limit of the reef environment. If he does, he is way off beam. The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  has been a little less artless than the Prime Minister or his  deputy.  He has indicated that, from his reading of the 1970 royal commission into production and drilling on the reef, drilling could be allowed in certain areas without any particular prospect of damage. In fact, the inquiry concluded that massive spills may be damaging to the reef beyond the limits of little detriment, which simply means that we should fear and expect the worst if there is a major spill. As honourable members should know, the  chairman  of that inquiry,  Sir Gordon  Wallace, firmly opposed drilling. 
Queenslanders, and the rest of Australia, are waiting for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, created over three years ago, to designate the marine park area. A recommendation of the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism regarding the Great Barrier Reef states: 
The staff ceiling of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority be lifted to a level where zoning procedures for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park can be completed within 25 years. 
It is a significant step in the right direction. Whether, like other commendable suggestions from the Committee, it will be buried in a bureaucratic heap remains to be seen. Honourable members have had reports of the Prime Minister's interference in the designation of these boundaries. This Government should come clean and explain the excessive delay and discount, if it dares, my suspicions about its connivance in this affair. I draw the Minister's attention to my question on notice about this matter. I hope for a quick response, although I know he would be breaking the habit of a lifetime if he acted quickly. While we wait for the declaration, the push to explore for oil is gaining momentum. The pressure to mine the limestone is increasing. The exploitation by Taiwanese fishing vessels will continue unabated and the credibility of this Government will continue to recede. 
Of the 240 reported sightings of Taiwanese fishing vessels, only 50 of these boats have been detained. The fines are insignificant to act as a deterrent to the captains of these vessels and the Taiwanese fishing companies they represent. What other country in the world would allow one of its greatest tourist attractions to be pirated, polluted and plundered in this way? The cost of the Federal Government- more correctly, the Australian people- to clean up oil spills that occasionally occur from the scuttling of fishing boats and the flying of Taiwanese crew members down to Brisbane and then to Taiwan will be untold thousands of dollars. After the way some Asian countries treat Australians on criminal charges, we should certainly consider lengthy gaol sentences for Taiwanese caught poaching. 
If an appeal to consider the reef's natural beauty and assets falls on deaf ears, then I should reassert that the Great Barrier Reef is Australia's greatest tourist attraction. I implore the Government to rescind its offer at last year's Premiers Conference to extend State control to three nautical miles from State shores. This decision can bring only grief to the reef. If and when the marine park is established it will end up looking like swiss cheese. The park will not come any closer than three miles to the mainland or to any island in the reef. The marine park map will be so riddled with holes that the Premier of Queensland should not experience any difficulty in finding an area to drill. The Marine Park Authority's report of 1 976-77 said: 
It is anticipated that ultimately the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park will include the entire reef and adjacent waters in one park extending from Lady Elliot Park (just north of Fraser Island ) to the tip of Cape York. 
The people of Australia, indeed the world community, are watching our handling of the marine park. In developing our tourism policy we must tread carefully between the profit motive and the preservation and conservation of our national heritage. It is for that reason that I have devoted so much of my time tonight to the issue of the Great Barrier Reef. It is an indication of the Opposition 's appreciation of the problem of balancing the need for conservation and the desire to attract tourists that the Opposition has one shadow spokesmen for both the areas of environment and tourism. The Government for its part has lumped tourism in with business, and environment in with science. If ever there was an indication of the Government's appreciation of the compromise needed in developing tourism and conserving the environment, this allocation of portfolios must be it. 
We should not let the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism die of apathy. In closing I would like to give tacit support to this report insofar as it goes in establishing the framework for a tourism policy. What is obviously needed, and this is borne out by the Chairman's remarks in the report, is more research into the economic benefits of the tourist industry to Australia, particularly in terms of reducing unemployment and gauging the benefits of those important tourist dollars. The Government has failed to realise that tourism is the world's fastest growing industry and is labour intensive. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In 1973 the Federal Labor Government undertook to control fees in nursing homes in each State and Territory. In 1973 the Government established that fees should be set at a level which requires that pensioners at no fewer than 70 per cent of homes pay no more than their pensions for board. That fee constitutes what is known as the basic fee. The Government establishes the amount it is willing to contribute to the nursing home fee. In Queensland at the moment that figure is $11.80 a day. The Government then adds the full single age pension, which is $7.25 a day, to arrive at the basic fee, which in Queensland presently is $19.05 daily. 
At the end of 1977 the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  decided that this process would apply annually and that reviews and adjustments, therefore, would be undertaken only once every year. In two recent letters to the Minister for Health I have called and pleaded for a change to the fee fixing procedure and a minimum upwards adjustment to the Government's contribution to the nursing home fee. If he does not respond positively and soon, I have no doubt that pensioners in nursing homes where fees have risen dramatically in the last two months will be forced to leave those homes. Since the Government's review of fees in October last year the percentage of homes charging the basic feethat is, requiring pensioners to pay no more than their pension- has fallen from 70 per cent to an unofficial estimate of 40 per cent. I know the details of increases in only two or three nursing homes in Brisbane but I cannot supply details of the most severe increases. As an example of the rising fees I refer to the recent increase at Autumn Lodge at Greenslopes in Brisbane. That home's fees increased by 13.4 per cent from 15 March this year. The daily rate went up by $2.40. That amount is borne entirely by the pensioner. 
So far I have spoken only of figures. The percentages and the dollars mean little without reference to the people involved. These people are amongst society's most vulnerable citizens. No honourable member of this House should need to be told of how vital a few pennies can be to a pensioner. I have had letters from friends and relatives of those in nursing homes informing me of the distressing news that their close friends or infirm relatives can no longer meet the cost of remaining in those nursing homes. Life savings are being savagely eroded. For those with little or no savings, or without financial support from friends or relatives to rely on, there is only one possible alternative- to get out and to leave the comfort and care of their nursing home. In the twilight of their lives they must now go in search of new lodgings. These days that is difficult even for young people. The dislocation, the disruption of routine, the heartache of leaving close friends and the cruel misery which has been inflicted on these people by increased fees are directly attributable to this Government. 
The Minister is aware of the situation- he is aware that it is deteriorating rapidly- but he has yet to act. In 1977 he declared that adjustments to the Government's contribution would be on an annual basis, meaning that whatever fee increases were effected during the intervening 12 months between one adjustment and the next had to be borne by the pensioner. That is precisely what is happening now. Well over onethird of Queensland 's nursing home residentsthat is, those in private enterprise homes- are now facing the daunting prospect of moving. The Government has the responsibility to approve or reject applications for increases in fees lodged by the managements of nursing homes. To my knowledge no increase in Queensland has been denied to a private enterprise nursing home. In fact some fee increases include loadings because of delays in processing or because of delayed flow-ons from various cost pressure sources. Rising nursing home rates have forced pensioners into a corner. 
The simple fact is that only three months ago pensioners in private homes had to pay only their full single aged pension as fees. Today most pensioners have to find much more than their pension to meet escalating fees. Regular ad hoc adjustments are obviously the most sensible and sensitive approach to regulation of fees in nursing homes. For the sake of pensioners in my State and, I believe, in every other State which has not received an increase in the Commonwealth's contributions to those fees I implore the Government to act with speed and compassion. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) By how much has the (a) basic fee for aged persons homes and (b) Commonwealth's contribution toward the basic fee for aged persons homes, risen in each State since the introduction of fee controls in 1 973. 
When was the last adjustment to the Commonwealth's contribution to these fees in each State. 
For what percentage of aged persons homes' beds did the basic fee apply in each State (a) at the date of the last adjustment of the Commonwealth's contribution and (b) as at 23 March 1979. 
Is it a fact that in Queensland the percentage of beds at the basic rate has dropped from approximately 70 per cent at the time of the last adjustment to approximately 35 per cent by mid-March 1979. 
Is he able to state the reason for the increase in the number of aged persons homes raising their fees above the basic fee. 
Does his Department approve all applications from aged persons homes for fee increases; if not, what are the grounds for rejection. 
Are there growing numbers of pensioners who entered aged persons homes paying only the basic rate ( meaning no more than their pensions) and who are now paying in excess of the pension. 
Will he introduce an immediate upwards adjustment of the Commonwealth contribution to the basic fee; if not, why not. 
Will he conduct reviews and adjustments of the Commonwealth contribution to the basic fee on a quarterly, or at least biannual, basis to ensure that inflation in aged persons homes fees does not compel pensioners at these homes to seek alternative accommodation and care. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Which Australian companies have acted as agents for Taiwanese fishing and commercial interests in submitting proposals to the Minister for access to Australia's forthcoming 200-mile fishing zone? What reply has the Minister given to those Australian agents acting for the Taiwanese? Will he give an assurance to the House that no approval will be given to the Australian companies to act as agents for Taiwanese fishing companies which have had ships of their fleet apprehended for poaching in and polluting Australian territorial waters? Will he also give an assurance that penalties imposed on the offending captains are severe enough to act as a deterrent? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Queensland Minister for Transport regarding a reduced commitment by the State Government to meeting future Brisbane public transport costs. 
In view of the Federal Government's decision to reduce urban public transport expenditure during 1978-79 by $20m will he meet with the Queensland Minister to determine whether ex gratia assistance might be provided for Brisbane public transport. 
Is it a fact that, although more than $20m was made available by the Grants Commission during the period 1 974 to 1977 on the basis of a claim made for assisting the Brisbane public transport system,not one cent was actually directed to Brisbane public transport. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the number of bankrupts registered with the Federal Courts for Australia from1 January 1 979 increased over comparable periods in each of the last 2 years. 
If so, can he state what are the reasons for the increase and whether unemployment is a major factor. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment state how many candidates were considered by the Government for the position of permanent  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority? What forms did the Government's search for a suitable permanent  Chairman  take? Does the newly appointed  Chairman  of the Marine Park Authority have any qualifications pertaining to marine biology? Is it a fact that he is a munitions expert and an engineer with extensive experience on the Woomera Rocket Range? Is it also a fact that while Acting  Chairman  of the Marine Park Authority for 12 months, he was also Director of Environment? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
Will he initiate, in association with the States, an investigation of safety requirements and standards in self-service petrol stations in all States and Territories following concern expressed in the media by motoring authorities, service station associations, some State Ministers and myself. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March1979: 
) Will he consider extending the period for submissions on Federal, State and local government relations, to be tendered to the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. 
Is it a fact that only 4 weeks elapsed between receipt of the Council 's invitation in members' offices and the deadline for receipt of submissions. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 March1979: 
Was special consideration given to Miss Liliana Gasinskaya 's application for residence in Australia. 
Was the decision by the Committee on Determination of Refugee Status in this case reached more quickly than on any other application. 
What are the requirements for refugee status. 
Has any spokesperson for him or his Department suggested Miss Gasinskaya may have received abnormal or speedy treatment of her claim. 
How many illegal immigrants, i.e. those who have entered the country legally and who have since contravened the Commonwealth 's immigration laws, as well as those who have entered the country illegally, have been deported during the period 1 January1978 to date. 
How many applications for migration to Australia were (a) received in the period1 January1978 to date and (b) rejected in the same period. 
How many applications by temporary residents in Australia for more permanent status (a) have been received and (b) have been rejected since 1 January 1978 and (c) are still outstanding. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Is the Annerley, Queensland, Community Youth Support Scheme project to be disbanded. 
If so, will this place increased demands on the Griffith CYSS Committee. 
Will part of the sum allocated for the Annerley CYSS be transferred to the Griffith CYSS. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that Mazda dealers throughout Australia have circulated a statement nationwide indicating that the effect of the increase in duty from 45 per cent to 57.5 per cent on imported cars was obviously not known or understood by the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who forwarded printergrams to Mazda dealers in their electorates, pointing out how beneficial the Budget had been for them. 
Has the Budget in fact raised the price of Mazdas and other imported cars, rather than reduced the price, as his 2 Ministers have claimed. 
Will he inform Mazda dealers how any Budget decision will assist Mazda dealers and other dealers in imported cars. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1 979: 
1 ) Do the latest figures available indicate Australia's per capita expenditure on medical research is $A0.83, compared to $ 1 . 36 in New Zealand and$A3.33 in Canada. 
If so, will he encourage greater Government assistance to medical research in the 1979-80 pre-Budget deliberations. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House expresses its grave concern and regret that Queensland is approaching the status of a one party state, that members of the Parliament have been denied basic democratic rights in accordance with Westminster principles of parliamentary democracy and that Queensland Opposition members have been denied balanced facilities, resources and speaking time, and accordingly the House should initiate action designed to established a Bill of Rights describing and protecting basic political and human rights of all Australians - 

 Speaker, you will recall that in about 1974,I believe it was, the former Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  did introduce legislation. 
-In the time available to me today, I want to raise several matters of great public concern. They relate to the Government's lack of foresight and initiative in relation to an energy policy and the implications of that lack of vision for the fate of the Great Barrier Reef. It gives me pleasure to see at the table the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  who might be able to answer a few of the questions I propose to raise. I wish to deal also with matters relating to the Government's failure to provide adequate security and surveillance against Taiwanese poaching in our northern waters. Finally, I wish to raise the question of the Government's miserable and heartless penny-pinching social security policy, observing only the letter of the law at the expense of the spirit of the Social Security Act, thus penalising and victimising the weak, the aged, the crippled, and even the spastics. 
I will deal firstly with what has been happening lately in and around the Great Barrier Reef. By now, most members should be aware that Taiwanese fishing fleets have taken to poaching, polluting and plundering the Great Barrier Reef with a passion. The scale and frequency of the Taiwanese invasion and the indisputable evidence of Taiwanese mother ships suggests that there is a clear conspiracy, a deliberate and concerted effort to pilfer clams, which is prohibited by the laws of this Parliament. If these Taiwanese fishing boats carried arms, there is no doubt that, in view of the size of the armada that has descended upon the Great Barrier Reef in recent months, Australia would probably be compelled to declare a state of war. I take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to work in conjunction with his fellow Ministers and to investigate whether the boats operate with a mother ship or with an air base on a neighbouring island. It is inconceivable that each of these small boats would carry its enormous and expensive stolen cargo all the way back to Taiwan. Obviously a better organised operation is going on. A trip on one of these slow chug boats would be a trip on a slow boat to China. 
I am on record as having advocated nothing less than the sternest measures to discourage this feverish plundering. Last week the tide of public opinion finally reached the courts, where in my opinion Taiwanese fishermen have in the past got off lightly for their continued breaches of either the Fisheries Act or the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act. The Magistrate in Cairns,  Mr B.  J. Scanlan, in response to an increasingly hostile and indignant public, committed Taiwanese fishermen to gaol. I regret that he had to make an example of members of the crew, who are paying the price for the indiscretions and excesses of their captains, the owners of the boats, and the company men who are responsible for sending these young fishermen and their captains into Australian waters to pollute and plunder the Great Barrier Reef. However, as I said in a statement released last week, we ought to draw comparison with the sort of justice meted out to some Australians in Asia. At the same time as the captain of the  Hae Weng Sheng  was getting his crew ready for an allexpensespaid jet trip to Taiwan, an Australian, Steven Byford of Adelaide, was being released from a Malaysian gaol where he had languished for 18 months waiting to stand trial on drug charges. When his case came up, the Malaysian magistrate found him innocent of the charge. 
I firmly believe that in case of premeditated poaching a glaring example must be made of offenders if the Taiwanese are to be deterred effectively. I was glad to note that in sentencing the most recent offenders  Mr Scanlan  said exactly what I have been saying for some weeks. Once we begin picking up second and third offenders, someone has to throw the book at them, particularly when they have begun to pollute the Great Barrier Reef by scuttling their boats, a practice which has occurred lately. Apparently scuttling constitutes a cash sale under the terms of their insurance policies and they can receive redemption. The cost to the Australian taxpayer of cleaning up the oil spills created by scuttling the boats has been enormous. 
I turn now to another menace with which the Great Barrier Reef has been plagued lately, a menace even more insidous than the Taiwanese fishermen. The spectre of a catastrophic oil blowout and spill loomed larger last week after a meeting in Sydney of Queensland and Federal Ministers. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard that section of the 1977-78 report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority which deals with oil drilling. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

OIL AND THE GREAT BARRIER REEF 
The issue of drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef received much discussion in the media during 1977-78. The Authority recommended at a meeting in July 1977 that the results of research on the effects of oil on coral reefs should be available before any decision is reached on whether or not to permit exploratory drilling. 
Media discussion on the oil drilling question continued, and on 8 May 1978 two members of the Authority made a strong and unambiguous stand on the issue. In their press release,  Dr J.  T. Baker and  Sir Charles  Barton reaffirmed the Authority's view that adequate research needs to be conducted before any decision on oil drilling can be made. This view is in accordance with the view of the  Chairman  of the joint Commonwealth-Queensland Royal Commissions' Report into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef.  Sir Gordon  Wallace, the  Chairman  of the Royal Commissions, had considered that drilling in the Great Barrier Reef should be postponed. 
The members considered that drilling should only be permitted in the light of full scientific knowledge of all the effects of oil pollution on the delicately balanced ecosystems of the Reef. Research should encompass oil's direct and indirect effects, both short and long term, on corals and other marine life. 
The threat to the Great Barrier Reef from oil is not limited to proposed oil drilling activities. Of more immediate concern are the risks associated with the passage of oil tankers and other shipping through the region. The Authority is seeking a co-ordinating role in the development of research into this potential problem as well as monitoring research by other organisations. 
I thank the House. The intention of both governments is now clear, despite the verbal dexterity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  By handing over to the Queensland Government the three-mile offshore territorial waters, as the Prime Minister will do within the next three months, he is virtually handing the Gulf Oil Company the mining rights to the Great Barrier Reef on a gold platter. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is day by day looking more like something that might have been rather than something that will be. Some indication of the indication of the Goverfment's downgrading of the Marine Park Authority can be gained by looking at an exercise undertaken by the Department of Science and the Environment to recruit an A grade journalist to be attached to the Authority. Some 74 applications were received for the job and interviews were held in Canberra, Brisbane and Townsville. The applicants were flown hither and thither for interviews at great government expense, I suggest. I take this opportunity to inform those journalists that they can look elsewhere for employment. I understand that the Authority is no longer offering the job. 
Another indication of the Government's plan for the Authority came two weeks ago with the announcement of  Mr Henry  Higgs as the Authority's permanent  chairman.  I should remind honourable members of the concern I raised in this chamber last year during the debate on the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Amendment Bill 1978. The Bill lowered the qualifications necessary for the appointment of a permanent  chairman  to the Authority as set out in the original Act. In my research of that amendment Bill I discovered great uneasiness amongst organisations in the community, including the Australian Conservation Foundation. They expressed concern about the vague purposes given for the amendment and the suspicious behaviour of the then Minister. On 2 1 September last year I said in this House: 
It has been brought to my attention that the Government in fact has decided on who is to be permanent  chairman  of the Authority. If the Government has someone in mind for the Chairmanship, if by legislation it is going to tailor requirements for that position to its anonymous nominee for the chairmanship- that is, setting the qualifications to suit the man rather than setting the man to suit the qualifications- let the Government show its hand. If it refuses to do this, conservationists are liable to suspect that the Government is fiddling the requirements of the job in order to instal a permanent  chairman  who may or may not be acceptable to the conservationists and to the Australian Conservation Foundation but who may be acceptable to this Government and the Government of . . . Queensland. 
Such a man has now been installed as  Chairman  of the Marine Park Authority.  Mr Henry  Higgs' appointment proved how right he was in making that statement last year. May I point out that  Mr Henry  Higgs, while acting  Chairman  of the Authority for 12 months, was also Director of the Department of the Environment. In the legislation committee, established to review the Bill following the third reading debate, I asked the Minister straight out whether the Government was lowering the qualifications because it wanted to appoint someone qualified in marine biology but on side with the Government's position on drilling the reef. The then Minister said: 
I assure the Committee that we have no particular person in mind. 
Subsequent events have shown that the Minister either was excessively misinformed of the facts or, I suspect, handled the truth a little carelessly. The present Minister should answer publicly how diligently the Government sought out a well qualified  chairman  and how many applications were turned down in favour of  Mr Higgs. 
Returning to the speech I made on 21 September last year I explained the importance of the position of the permanent chairman by saying: 
The stance of the . . . Authority and its  chairman  is of enormous consequence to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  if he is to get his way in respect of 'oil rigging the reef. 
The findings of the Royal Commission into Petroleum Drilling in the area of the Great Barrier Reef were inconclusive. The  Chairman  of the royal commission,  Sir Gordon  Wallace, found that drilling, preferably, should be postponed while the other two commissioners thought drilling permissible in certain areas. Obviously, educated opinion is divided on whether drilling should take place. Just as obviously, it matters greatly to the Premier of Queensland on which side of the fence the head of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority stands. 
The numbers on the Authority are critical. One of the two part time members of the Authority is elected by the Queensland Government. At present that member is  Mr S.  Schubert, the Coordinator General of Queensland. I suggest he is a man with as much knowledge of marine biology as the present Prime Minister has of poverty. The other part time member is  Dr J.  Baker, a man eminently qualified for his position on the Authority. Remaining member of the Authority, the permanent  Chairman  who casts the deciding vote, is now  Mr Henry  Higgs, a munitions expert, not a marine biologist, and former principal of the Woomera Rocket Range, an engineer who, in the past, has not exhibited much support for the conservationists. Just the other day in an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio  Mr Higgs  let the world know of his knowledge of the reef when he said: 
The reef is 2,000 miles long and there is a lot of water in between. 
The qualifications stated above suggest that he should not sit on the Authority as permanent  Chairman.  Sending  Mr Henry  Higgs to the Barrier Reef is like sending Brutus to Caesar's funeral. He will go, not to praise or preserve the reef but to bury it. 
Yet another indication of the fate of the Marine Park is given by the Authority itself in its own reports. In the report for 1976-77, the Authority said:  lt is anticipated that ultimately the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park will include the entire reef and adjacent waters in one park extending from Lady Elliott Island (just north of Fraser Island ) to the tip of Cape York. 
In the 1977-78 report, however, we find the Authority evidently less optimistic. It said in that report: 
The majority of the Great Barrier Reef region will probably, in the long term, be proclaimed as a Marine Park. 
The difference in outlook between the two reports is obvious. May I suggest that the Park Authority's report for the current year should be inscribed 'RIP', rest in peace. The submission for the first portion of the reef, known as the Capricornia section has been gathering dust on the Minister's desk since March 1977. The Queensland Premier has written to the Prime Minister informing him bluntly that his Government will not even discuss the Marine Park until the issue of handing over to Queensland control of the three-mile territorial waters is decided. Once the Queensland Premier gets that threemile ring of confidence around every island and along the entire length of the Queensland coast, the Barrier Reef will end up looking like a long piece of Swiss cheese. It should be noted that there will be plenty of holes in that map where the Premier can erect his oil rigs. I give notice to the Prime Minister and to his Government that there is no way that this manoeuvre will not be challenged in the High Court. It is unsound and unconstitutional and the Government's own advisers have told it so. 
Finally, I would like to relate a story I was told by the parents of a young spastic quadriplegic last week. I was contacted by the parents of Tony Freeman, a spastic quadriplegic.  His  parents told me that his invalid pension had been reduced by the Department of Social Security. And by how much had they reduced it? By only 50c a week. Now, why should the Department bother two age pensioners who have cared for their spasticson for the last 25 years to tell them that Tony cannot have 50c a week. The Department did not bother to tell them why. Following my representations it was disclosed that Tony's parents, John and Yvonne, had placed $920 in a building society account in Tony's name. That saving was yielding the princely sum of $77 a year in interest. Because the Government's means test for supplementary assistance or rent allowance is only $1 a week, or $52 a year, Tony's income from that interest was over the means test limit by $25 a year or 50c a week. Fifty cents a week certainly does not seem like too much when compared with the $15m the Prime Minister will spend on the VIP aircraft this year and probably another $15m next year to have the engines silenced. Accordingly, the Department ripped that 50c a week off Tony. No explanation was tendered. Now, the 50c a week is not the issue. As Tony's mother told me, it is the principle that smells in this matter. These people have scrimped and saved. They have sacrificed a great deal for their spastic son over the last 25 years. If that boy had been placed in an institution for the last 25 years, he would not have had the sort of attention, love and affection and it would have cost the taxpayer approximately $ lm to give him only very basic care. 
Tony is bedridden. He cannot walk or talk. He cannot feed or clothe himself.  His  sole pleasure is looking at the toys his parents have pinned to the ceiling over his cot. I know John and Yvonne Freeman, and I know that they will never surrender Tony to an institution. They have told me that for years they have had to fight State and Federal departments to get even a pittance for Tony's care. They told me about the struggle they had to get proper oxygen equipment for Tony after he almost died from lack of oxygen. I know that they are grateful to the union movement for providing their son with that equipment. Obviously the pension is inadequate for someone with Tony's needs and condition. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has been unable to see me this week to discuss the matter of Tony Freeman and all those other cripples and chronic invalid pensioners who have contacted my office in the last few days. I have already informed her office that I believe that, at the very least, the Government should introduce a new grade of invalid pension for these chronic invalids. These people cannot earn income over their pension and the only way they have of supplementing the huge cost that is required for their proper care is to receive supplementary assistance. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  whether $5 a week is too much for Tony Freeman. Is it too much for his parents who have shouldered the burden of their spastic quadriplegic son for these past 25 years? The 50c a week the Government is saving by persecuting Tony Freeman and his pensioner parents will not make much of an impact on the deficit. Fifty cents a week does not seem such a great price to pay for the sacrifice, the love and the attention that Tony's parents have given him. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that at a meeting in October 1978, concerning staffing of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau at which the Public Service Board, the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, the Department of Foreign Affairs and certain unions were represented, the Public Service Board undertook to provide to the unions copies of the Joint Review Committee's report into staffing of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau and subsequently supplied only background material, contrary to an understanding reached by those groups present at the meeting. 
) Is it also a fact that at a meeting on 30 January 1 979 of the same groups, the Public Service Board refused to provide to the Australian Public Service Association and the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association, specific information concerning individual reclassifications as they affected employees in the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. 
If so, will he endeavour to provide the respective unions with the information they have sought from the 
Board regarding the Joint Review Committee's report as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) What proposals have been received at the Brisbane offices of his Department from the Queensland Government regarding the relocation of the Queensland Water Police headquarters. 
When was his Department first contacted by the Queensland Government or the Queensland Water Police regarding the transfer of the Water Police headquarters to the area now occupied by the Lytton Quarantine Station. 
Has any other Government Department shown interest in the area. 
What is the usual priority for disposing of Commonwealth land for which his Department acts as agent. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that the  President  of the Queensland branch of the National Party of Australia has written to business corporations informing them that donations to the National Party in the form of advertising in the Party's magazine  National Outlook  are tax deductible and that donations, such as the $100,000 donation from the former Gold Coast Mayor,  Sir Bruce  Small, will be deductible at 46c in the dollar? Given the Treasurer's firm commitment last Thursday night to crack down on tax avoidance, will he consider amending the Income Tax Assessment Act effectively to prohibit or discourage excessive advertising expenditure which might be abused in this way? Finally, as donors of more than $10,000 receive dinner invitations from the Premier, and since the Federal Treasury is subsidising almost 50 per cent of all donations, does the Treasurer intend to take up the Premier's invitation on behalf of the Australian taxpayer? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) To what extent are devices known as earth leakage circuit breakers installed in Commonwealth Government buildings. 
Has any inquiry been conducted into the benefits of using this device; if so, will he state what they are; if not, will he undertake to have such an inquiry carried out. 
If there are benefits to be gained from the use of these devices, will he consider their greater use in buildings under his control to ensure greater protection of employees in those buildings. 
Already many honourable members of the Opposition have attacked this Government's broad economic drift. I say drift because I could hardly call it economic direction as the Government, judging from the mini-Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Thursday night, not only has no direction but also no comprehension of the problem, no credibility in the electorate, no consistency in its policies, no charity and last but by no means least, no sincerity. Certainly, with so many gaping holes in its economic strategy my colleagues on this side will have no problem in totally undermining whatever misguided loyalty there is left in the sinking ship opposite. In the time available to me tonight I wish to address myself to the lack of credibility and sensitivity demonstrated by the Treasurer in the areas of health, transport, education and housing. 
Certainly those of us who have considered the verdict of the media over the weekend must reach the firm conclusions that, despite the verbal dexterity of the Treasurer and his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  they have failed miserably in pulling the wool over the eyes of the electorate and the people of Australia. What stands out from the millions of words that seem to have been written about last Thursday night's feeble attempt is that the community is most alarmed at the way this present Liberal-National Country Party Government is eroding health benefits. A clear consequence of the decision not to contribute towards the cost of the first $20 of medical service is that more and more people will ignore early symptoms of potentially fatal illnesses when treatment may be comparatively cheap. The medical standards of the nation must suffer. The reduction of over $200m in the contribution to hospitals will threaten the jobs of approximately 20,000 employees. The threats to hospital services were clear enough from the speech made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who said, in an unguarded moment, that if it meant that some hospitals had to be shut down, then so be it. In reply, I say to the honourable member for Petrie that if, as a result of that sort of thinking, three-quarters of the Government back benchers are tossed out at the next election, the honourable member for Petrie included, then so be it. Let the Government members fall where they may. 
The Treasurer's health decisions will increase medical insurance costs for those still covered and will generally increase the already tenuous consumer price index. The amount of that increase is generally put at 1.5 per cent. That cannot be disputed. As the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has already said, if the Government had not decided to subsidise medical costs, the consumer price index would have ballooned to 3.8 per cent for the December quarter, achieving an annual rate of 15.2 per cent. The fact that the Government has now withdrawn this subsidy, along with the increases in charges for people wishing to have doctors of their choice and private hospital beds, will increase costs for most people. Which people will be hurt the most? The Minister for Health in 1976 said: 
The only fair and equitable method is that the user pays in accordance with his ability to pay. 
Uninsured low income earners who are not classified by this Government in that category of socially disadvantaged, to which the Treasurer referred last Thursday, will pay the full fee for general practitioner consultations. The Government has no regard for whether such a group has the means to pay. It is estimated that one-quarter of families near or below the poverty line are now paying for medical and hospital cover. As a result of the infamous Autumn Budget they will be required to pay approximately $10 a week. That amounts to $520 a year for basic cover. The Government has no regard for the poor's ability to pay. It is no good to say that people should try to be bulk billed. Everyone, most of all the low income earners or those on social security other than age pensioners, know the situation is a farce. Apart from the degradation of asking a doctor for direct or bulk billing, it is no simple matter to find general practitioners who will bulk bill. To that end, the Government should initiate talks with the Australian Medical Association to supply either to the public or to social workers a list of doctors willing to bulk bill. The Government 's intentions are plain. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of a table prepared by the  National Times  which, I think, shows beyond doubt that there is an enormous chasm between the health care costs paid by the uninsured and those paid by the insured. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905292_83_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_83_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_84_6.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The message is crystal clear: 'Get out of insurance; take your chances'. In effect, by insuring, one is paying a retainer of approximately $500 a year for the luxury of choosing ones own doctor in the event that one should be hospitalised. With those odds there is no way one would not want to gamble. That is, of course, so long as one is not a chronic sufferer, or aged, or generally one of the community's weaker citizens. The philosophical imprint of the Prime Minister is all over this socalled Treasurer's statement. The lesson he preaches is that only the strong survive. Judging by his performance in the Parliament at Question Time in the last few days he may come to regret his belief in the law of the jungle. The chorus for Andrew grows larger and louder every passing day. The cries from the back bench will become deafening when Cabinet shows its full hand within the next three months. The Government has only hinted at some of the severe measures it entertains for the next Budget. 
The Treasurer's reference to cutting specific purpose payments to the States will be received with undisguised horror by every Premier and State Treasurer without exception. The reference may be oblique but we can bet that the cuts will not be. The Government has moved to a position which will compel most States to cut savagely in areas of public works and work-incentive programs. Specific purpose grants cover a wide multiplicity of State programs and have just as grave consequences for local government. Furthermore, reductions in that area will place States in a position of levying their own income tax surcharge. Mark my words, the thrust of this Government in the area of federalism has been designed to condition States in the inevitability of imposing State levied income tax surcharges. In 1977 the Prime Minister sold the Premiers a pig in a poke. Once this pig matures- that should be within the next year- it will assume the proportions and behaviour of a wild boar. When this Government refers to its federalism policy as tax sharing, it means in fact, blame sharing. Most States will come to appreciate the full meaning and significance of that fact. 
The Government has made similar vague threats in the area of education. Education institutions around Australia are in suspense. Colleges of advanced education know that they are for the chop. Students at tertiary institutions are fully aware of the talk about dropping tertiary education allowances- or at least substantially squeezing them- and returning to tuition fees. What the community does not know is the breadth of educational resources which will be affected by the coming cuts. All we have to go on are hints. But that is enough to gauge what is in store. 
Apart from the cuts foreshadowed by the Treasurer, the Government has campaigned strongly against student unions, undermining their effectiveness in lobbying Parliament for a civilised share of the nation's resources to be channelled into education. Campuses must be divided before they can be conquered. The Australian Education Council, at its meeting in Melbourne last year, established a committee to review in very broad terms, the work of the Schools Commission. The tension and uneasiness which that decision caused throughout the community is still evident among parents and citizens' associations. Obviously the Government's guns are aimed at the Schools Commission which has done so much for equality of education resources and facilities, not to mention equality of opportunity, in Australian schools since its establishment by the Labor Government. The Government should be made aware of the findings of an Australia-wide survey conducted by the University of New South Wales on the possible reintroduction of tuition fees. Again, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a summary of that report provided by the Australian Union of Students newsletter for April this year. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Background information circulated by the Australian Union of Students, 95 Drummond St Carlton 3053. 2/April 21 1979. 
I turn to another aspect of the speech of the Treasurer. It should be pointed out that the housing industry is no happier about the mini-Budget than are the States. The Government's reduction of the limit of the value of a house and land to $35,000 for a full home savings grant indicates either its ignorance or its contempt for the building industry and for the needs of home buyers. The average price of an established home in Sydney in June 1978 was $47,700. In Melbourne it was $41,800, and in Brisbane it was certainly over $35,000. More importantly, very few houses can be built in most State capitals on land which has cost under $10,000, and the building materials price index has risen over the last year by 8 per cent. The consequences of the home savings grant reduction includes more unemployment in the building industry and greater distress for home seekers. 
-The honourable member for Lilley did not want Housing Commission homes in his electorate. Another area of expenditure which has received little attention by anyone other than the Cabinet and the shadow Minister is transport. No wonder the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is out of the country. If I had been rolled so completely in Cabinet as he was I would be off sulking with my tail between my legs too. During the urban public transport debate last year we were told that grants under section 8 of the Urban Public Transport Act, which provided for $ 100m to be spent over five years at the rate of $20m a year, would be cut by $25m and spending would not commence for another year. Now, before that suspended year is up, we are told that the specific payment of $20m will be delayed once again. In fact, there is the strong prospect that the $20m from the next Budget which would have been spent on urban public transport, and which was carried over from the previous year, will not only be delayed but will disappear altogether from the total commitment for the five-year period. 
This Government will have to live with its record of half truths, broken promises and shattered dreams. It will live with that record until it dies. The carcasses of dead promises lie everywhere for all to see. The Prime Minister said in March 1977: 
We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year. 
On 27 November 1975 there was the unequivocal promise to abolish the means test on pensions. Now of course there is a means test on pension increases for those over 70. There was the commitment, made in the same speech, to be generous to the unemployed. The Prime Minister felt at that time that the more unemployment increased the more benefits the unemployed should receive as compensation for finding work more difficult to get. They are noble but hollow sentiments. There was the promise to retain the Australian Assistance Plan- probably one of the most far sighted social programs adopted by any government since the war. The plan now exists only in the history books. Medibank went the same way. I do not want to have to elaborate on that matter. 
Full indexation of income tax followed the Australian Assistance Plan and universal health insurance down the same well trodden path. There were promises about unemployment falling, growth rates rising, maintenance of full wage indexation, reduction in inflation, falling deficits, interest rates and, of  course,  the end to the big tax rip-off. All this came from the man who promised integrity in government and who publicly stated his belief that how things are done is just as important as what is done. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Has he (a) received any undertaking from Conzinc Riotinto as to the date on which it will reach 5 1 per cent Australian equity, thus qualifying it for naturalising status and (b) been informed by Conzinc Riotinto of the procedure it intends to follow to arrive at that equity. 
Is it a fact that after the Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation floated Conzinc Riotinto it held 90. 1 per cent equity in 1 962 and that in the last 17 years this percentage has fallen to 72.6; if so, at that rate of decrease when will Conzinc Riotinto reach 5 1 per cent equity. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, in view of the Government's failure to honour its promise of last year to increase its expenditure on urban public transport, and because the Queensland Government has not distributed to the Brisbane City Council funds received from the Federal Government through the Grants Commission, expressly for assistance to Brisbane Public 
Transport, the House is of the opinion that the Federal Government should make future grants for such purposes specific purpose grants and ensure that they are properly applied for the purposes for which they were allocated and not diverted improperly by the Queensland Government. 
-The cognate debate on these two basically machinery Bills, the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Amendment Bill, gives honourable members an opportunity to raise matters of education generally. In that respect, the debate is indeed opportune. However, it amazes me to find that speaking in this most important debate on education we have a medical practitioner, a farmer and a motor mechanic. 
I would have thought that we would have had some of our intellectual honourable members also debate this issue. The statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last week cast a shadow over education in this country. Before addressing those wider education issues, I should like to comment on one aspect of the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill which is before us tonight. The second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  stated that there had been a shortfall last year in tertiary education capital programs and that this would be held over to the second half of 1979. 1 have two questions for the Minister. Firstly, the shortfall was $5m. The amount made available in this Bill is only $4. 1 m. Why is there a difference? My second question is: How will this Bill be affected by the Treasurer's warning to get tough on education spending on capital works? 
Now I turn to the questions on the subject of education. Education institutions around Australia are in suspense. The programs for universities, colleges of advanced education, and primary and secondary schools and the hopes of students throughout Australia all hang on the statement which the Minister for Education will make in the Senate in the coming weeks. Every sector knows that it will not escape the Treasurer's axe. What those sectors and the community generally do not know is the breadth of educational resources which will be affected by the coming cuts. All we have to go on are hints and suggestions. But that is probably enough for us to gauge the extent of what  Senator Carrick  holds in store. Apart from the cuts foreshadowed in Thursday night's mini-Budget, the Government has waged a bitter campaign against student unions in an attempt to undermine their effectiveness in lobbying Parliament for a reasonable share of the nation's resources to be directed toward education. The Government's motto is to divide and conquer, and the nation's campuses must be divided before this Government can inflict the full wrath of its policies upon them. 
-Secondly, in Melbourne last year the Australian Education Council established a committee to review in very broad terms the work of the Schools Commission. I hear honourable members on the Government side complaining about my statements. 
-Do not worry about who wrote it. The truth always hurts, does it not? I said at the time, and it bears repeating, that the Government must not bend to the pressures of the Queensland and Western Australian governments which have placed on record their opposition to the Schools Commission. The Commission has done enormous good for the cause of equality of education resources and facilities, not to mention equality of opportunity, in Australian schools since its establishment by the Labor Government. It has taken much of the politics out of education funding. The Queensland and Western Australian governments have not been able to play the pork-barrelling game of directing Government funds to schools for political and not educational purposes. The Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland have been left with one less political rabbit to pull out of the hat- we will make sure that they do not get those rabbits to pull out of the hat- so that they can use the education programs to further their own political games. The Education Council announced that there was a move to re-introduce block grants, meaning simply that the money goes untied to State Treasurers for them to spend as they see fit. Such an abomination would mean a return to a system which produced one million functionally illiterate Australians and was characterised by massive class sizes, a lack of teacher resources and a general lack of morale amongst teachers. The tension and uneasiness throughout the community caused by the decision to hold an inquiry into the Schools Commission is still evident among parents and citizens associations in my electorate and among teachers associations throughout the country. 
Increasingly, the Government has abrogated its responsibilities in education by leaving a vacuum for the States to fill. The Government has completely ignored the principle of funding on the basis of need. The guidelines are heavily weighted against those who need help most, within both the non-government schools and the government system. The Government has chosen to take the needs basis away from the Commission as the sole basis for funding, and has imposed a distribution based on its own prejudices, not social or educational equity. Capital gains for government schools have fallen by 6 per cent. That 6 per cent would have financed 16 new high schools or 32 new primary schools. The decrease for non-government schools is only 3.3 per cent. The wealthiest nongovernment schools will get an increase of $28 per head, whilst the poorest non-government schools will get only $6 per head. Level one primary schools will get $17 per head, whilst level six will get $5 per head. Levels three, four and five in the primary schools and levels four and five in secondary schools will get zero. The drift is obvious. The Government has applied a general reduction to primary and secondary education funding in line with its warnings. However, it has changed the direction of spending. The Government is spending relatively more of the education dollar on wealthier private schools at the expense of not only State schools but also many Catholic parish schools. 
-The direction of the Government in tertiary education is just as vividly clear. Honourable members on the Government side cry out once again, but they are not game to get up and make a speech. They are just sitting there and carrying on in a manner I would not like to describe. In March this year the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations held a seminar in Sydney on 'Australian universities after four years of cost cutting'. Their message to the Government was plainly spelt out. It was: Enough is enough. Universities and colleges of advanced education have been squeezed until the pips squeaked. The effect has been to create a class system amongst our universities. The older established universities such as Sydney, Queensland, Melbourne, Adelaide, Monash and the Australian National University will guard their privileges while their poor relations, the new universities like La Trobe in Victoria and Griffith in Brisbane, will be left to struggle without fully developed professionoriented faculties. Griffith University has already had to halve its growth estimates. Growth in funding for the past four years has remained static. In the same period the student enrolment numbers have leapt from 132,600 to 142,500. 
The Treasurer has indicated that enrolments at tertiary institutions are stabilising and, therefore, it is possible to- as he calls it- 'moderate the flow of resources'. If funding has remained static during a period of increasing enrolments, what can we expect at a time when growth seems to be levelling out? May I refer to two tables prepared by researchers of the Australian Union of Students. The tables show that in the period from 1976 to 1979 student numbers at the universities and colleges of advanced education will have increased by 12.5 per cent while funding has fallen 4. 1 per cent. We can expect cuts in real recurrent expenditure and even in total amounts for education this year. 
I wish the honourable member for Mallee would drop out. How can the Government cut education further? It has already confirmed that there will be no review of its decision to tax Commonwealth postgraduate research awards. In the case of married postgraduate students with dependent children who are just above the poverty line, the tax places them below that line. The long term implications of the refusal to review the Government's position have been ably pointed out already this year by my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Button.  Australia will be deprived of an adequate supply of qualified researchers in the future as a result of the inadequacies of scholarship allowances. The November tax slug will increase the brain drain. The effect of this sort of mindlessness in education policies is effectively expressed in an advertisement authorised by the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations which was published a few days ago. I seek leave to have that advertisement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

RESEARCH CRISIS 
Universities and Colleges 
Can Australia afford to waste its highly trained scientists and researchers? 
Should we rely more and more on imported know-how to solve our problems? 
Six expert independent committees ranging from the OECD to the Australian Science and Technology Council have said that Australia should not rely on overseas technology and that its universities need more research funding. 
When will the Government listen? 
Four years of cost cutting in universities means that our best researchers don't have the resources to do their jobs properly. Work vital to Australia's self reliance is neglected because there is not enough money. 
The Federation of Australian University Staff Associations is seriously worried that the funds available for each research worker have slumped by nearly 50 per cent- from $7,380 per researcher to $3,800- in the decade to 1 976. 
The major inquiry into education and training by the Williams Committee said recently: 
If research funds are not adequate Australia will lose to overseas universities a proportion of its ablest young graduates and become more dependent on overseas developments in science and technology. ' 
Universities need more money for research. We cannot afford to waste the talents of trained research staff. 
Authorised by L. B. Wallis on behalf of the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations, 499 St Kilda Road, Melbourne. 
-Not only can postgraduate students not look forward to a review of that ill-advised imposition in last year's Budget, but the word is that the Government may withdraw all funding for second degrees and honours degrees. This would be the last straw. Even members of the staffs of Government members opposite will rebel and defect. Many of their own researchers and legislative assistants are in the process of completing their degrees, or intend to undertake second degrees in the near future. Of course, the Government has already halved most study leave to six months, thus adding to the nation's intellectual sterility and isolation. It is interesting to note that it did so against the advice of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications who is sitting at the table tonight. The amount saved by such a retrograde step is a miserable $lm. That is what the Government spends on paper clips in half a year. 
If the Minister does not know what I said, I will be happy to repeat it. He is too busy talking to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  There is even talk that fees for tertiary education will be reintroduced. It is generally recognised that tertiary education assistance will be reduced even further. This will be the price paid for Fraser federalism and the old monster of shared funding. 
The Williams report has done nothing to allay the worst fears of the States and the community. Much has already been said and written about the Williams report. Suffice it to say that its most appealing proposals will be allowed to gather dust while there is growing fear that recommendations such as the reintroduction of tuition fees and the totally regressive Blandy plan may gain favour with the Government and its back bencher members. The Government would be remiss if it thought that the report it sponsored gave it some sort of mandate for financial cutbacks. On the contrary, it seeks minor additional funds for the system, such as for a return to full triennial funding. The report also established a broader role for education, rather than merely imparting job skills. The report is in line with what the Governor-General has stated but it is not a proposition that is accepted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
A moment ago I reflected in passing on the paper prepared by Professor Richard Blandy. The wild absurdities of the Blandy paper deserve some attention. Professor Blandy would have students liable to pay fees related to the actual costs of providing the courses they were taking. More controversial than that, he would also have future tertiary education funding drawn from an endowment fund created by levying a tax on all former tertiary students. In the mad rush of this Government to grab more from the public purse, it may well come to consider Professor Blandy seriously. There would then be an education crisis of truly classic proportions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 March, 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a submission from the Association for Childhood Language and Related Behaviour Disorders for funding through the Handicapped Persons Assistance Scheme. 
If so, when will the Minister respond to the application. 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area of permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringes on the proposed section of the Marine Park? Is it also a fact that the Capricornia section of the marine park cannot be declared until the Government knows where it is going with the report of the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the Area of the Great Barrier Reef? 
-As the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, will know and as honourable members on my left will know, one of the many attractions of living in my home State of Queensland is the existence of a superb seaside culture. By that, I mean that the population of Queensland is so strung out along the entire length of the Queensland coast that we are very conscious of the beauties, the dangers and the benefits of living next to the sea. The attractions of such a culture draw hundreds of thousands of southerners from their grey, sullen suburban skies to the sunny climes of beautiful Queensland. But it appears that sunny Queensland also attracts other sorts of people. It is about those very unwelcome visitors that I wish to speak today. 
Specifically, the rich fishing areas of the Great Barrier Reef have acted as a magnet to draw to those waters great numbers of Taiwanese fishing boats which recently have assumed proportions of a virtual armada or flotilla. The poaching of clams on the Great Barrier Reef is now a national scandal. It is a poor reflection on this Government that a newspaper has taken more effective action in a matter of a few weeks than the Government has taken in a period of over 20 years of Taiwanese poaching. I refer to the investigations sponsored by the Brisbane  CourierMail  in the last few weeks. The plundering, poaching and polluting of our northern waters by the marauding Taiwanese has been fully exposed in a series of well researched and well written articles by  Mr Bruce  McKean. Last week I expressed in this House the opinion that the scale and frequency of the Taiwanese invasion and the indisputable evidence of Taiwanese mother ships suggest that there is a clear conspiracy, a deliberate and concerted effort, to pilfer clams, which is a crime under Commonwealth law. 1 have asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to work in conjunction with his fellow Ministers and to investigate whether the boats operate with a mother ship or with an air base on a neighbouring island. I have not been informed yet of any action that the Minister should have taken pursuant to that request. Nor have I been informed of which Australian companies have approached the Minister to seek approval for Taiwanese fishing licences within Australia's forthcoming 200-mile territorial waters. The Minister referred to these representations on behalf of Taiwanese fishing interests in his correspondence to certain parliamentarians early in April. Over 3 weeks ago I put to him a question without notice and still he remains silent on which companies are involved. The  Courier-Mail,  however, has not been silent. In its first investigative article on clam poaching and the raping of the reef its reporter,  Mr Bruce  McKean, linked the Queensland Butter Marketing Board with the Taiwanese fishing interests. The Queensland Butter Marketing Board paid a solicitor and a barrister to defend the Taiwanese boat captain after he was charged with illegally searching for clams on the reef. The defence lost and the clam boat was confiscated. The then General Manager of the Board, the late  Mr George  Coombs, tried to buy back the boat for its Taiwanese owners.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  something smells, and it is not the clams. I commend the  Courier-Mail  for its no-holds-barred stand against the Taiwanese invasion. 
-The Great Barrier Reef is the last home of the giant clam, which is a delicacy in Asia and a prime target for the Taiwanese poachers. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  interjects, but he has not done anything about his beautiful Barrier Reef. Clam meat brings $20 a kilogram in Taipei and $44 a kilogram in Hong Kong. As  Mr McKean  has pointed out, a skilled Taiwanese clammer takes less than 60 seconds to cut out a muscle and destroy a clam which took up to 100 years to grow. Some boats which have been caught by authorities have been holding on board a clam catch of up to 15 tonnes, worth approximately half a million dollars on the Hong Kong market. More importantly, it represents one hundred million years of clam life. 
The  Courier-Mail  articles highlight the problems of tracking down the poachers. Clearly, the most effective way of detecting and catching them is to use chartered local boats and sea planes. Apparently naval patrol boat officers do not know tricky reef waters as well as local game fishermen know them. Royal Australian Air Force Orion surveillance requires that the aircraft visually identify boats. Taiwanese fishermen head for open waters when they see the planes overhead. The charter approach stands up well in respect of cost. The charge for chartering a local sea plane is about $130 an hour while an RAAF Orion costs $2,200 an hour to charter. The Navy itself admits that its patrol boats are slow. There are three patrol boats stationed in Cairns- the  Barricade,  the  Bayonet  and the 

 Barbette- each a 33-metre vessel operated by 1 8 men. They use the most modern charts, but even these are not entirely accurate because great areas of the reef are still uncharted. In some cases, the Taiwanese fishing captains have navigated the tricky waters of the reef more often than have the captains of the Australian naval ships that patrol our coastline and, as a consequence, they know the area much better. 
The recent sentence brought down by the Cairns magistrate,  Mr B.  J. Scanlan, against the captain of the  Hae Weng Sheng,  is a clear example of the courts following the lead of public opinion. For weeks before the decision the  Courier-Mail  and the other Queensland media had waged a media war against the Taiwanese poachers. It even reached the point where the Taiwanese Treasurer held an emergency meeting of fishery officials and representatives of the Fishermen's Association to discuss reports in the  Courier-Mail  of the great clam war. I am on record as having advocated nothing less than the sternest measures to discourage this wanton plundering. I regret that members of the boats' crews have to pay the price for the indiscretions and excesses of their captains, the boat owners and the company men who give them their orders. However, I firmly believe that in these blatant cases of premeditated poaching, an example must be made of offenders if the Taiwanese are to be deterred effectively. 
Poaching has even reached the stage where Taiwanese captains scuttle or attempt to scuttle their boats as they are being towed in for arrest. Not only will oil spills created by this sort of vandalism create enormous problems for the marine environment, but the removal by the Taiwanese over the last 20 years of a large number of clams must have an enormous effect on the ecological system. Northern Queenslanders have a profound appreciation of the benefits of the reef and especially of the value of tourism to the area. To them, the word 'Taiwanese' provokes anger. Clams are the main Taiwanese target. They are a delicacy in the East, where they are regarded as an aphrodisiac, but other marine wildlife and animals are also pilfered. Turtles are a Taiwanese delicacy, and along with terns and gannets and other sea birds which nest on the coral islands, they have been found in the frozen storage bins of Taiwanese fishing boats. Another popular catch is the highly colourful triton shellfish, whose shell attracts prices of up to $100. The triton is the main predator of the dreaded crown of thorns starfish. Clearly, then, the Taiwanese are disturbing and placing in jeopardy the delicate environmental balance of the reef. 
In respect of the marine environment, in the time remaining I wish to deal briefly with the statement of the Minister for Primary Industry that applications are to be called for pilot fishing ventures for harvesting beche-de-mer on the Barrier Reef. I refer those uninformed honorable members who do not know what beche-de-mer are to the  Australian Encyclopaedia:  They are sluggish, more or less sausage-shaped creatures which live on the sea-bottom- not unlike some members of this Parliament; they resemble large worms; they have an absence of external spine; a few are poisonous, but most are harmless; their bodies can assume a variety of shapes; most species can regenerate lost organs, and a few reproduce asexually by spontaneous transverse fission. I hope that honourable members now have some idea of what a beche-de-mer looks like. There may even be a species of the creature in this House. 
The point is that the Federal and Queensland governments have now given the go-ahead to reestablishing the beche-de-mer industry. Apart from the economic viability of the proposal, the industry could present environmental problems. In this regard, I implore the Minister to read the 1 977-78 annual report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. I refer the Minister to the fact that more than 30 offers of assistance were made through the Commonwealth decentralisation development program by February this year. Was one of these offers a $250,000 grant for the Launceston Conference Centre in the electorate of Bass and another a $345,000 offer for the Portland Harbour Trust in the electorate of Wannon, of which one-third was a grant? How does the Minister justify these offers with large grant components when the vast majority of other offers of assistance have been at the long term bond rate? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that part-time students who are about to graduate from tertiary institutions in Queensland have not been allowed to apply for unemployment benefit at Commonwealth Employment Service offices. 
If so, was the reason given by CES officers for refusal of application that the applicant is likely to give up a job once he or she has graduated. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Have special service restoration centres been established in every major Telecom network around Australia. 
if so, is the purpose of these centres to provide special services, such as telephone repairs, to major subscribers who have been given a telephone fault rectification number and an N code by which they can be recognised. 
Has this created 2 classes of Telecom customers. 
In Queensland and, specifically, the Brisbane area, what (a) was the number of new connections (telephones and telexes) and repairs (telephones) in (i) 1977-78 and (ii) I July 1978 to date and (b) are the staff levels in areas relating to new connections (telephone and telex) and repairs (telephone) for each quarter since 1 July 1977. 
What is the average length of time for new telephone connections to be made in the Electoral Division of Griffith. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Are delays of between 3 and 5 weeks regularly occurring in the transfer of telephone numbers, even when the transfer occurs within the same building, in the Brisbane area. 
) If so, are the delays caused by staff shortages. 
In view of the recently announced profitability of Telecom, will he review staff ceilings with Telecom management. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
1 ) Is Cloncurry Airport to be abandoned as a strategic alternate airport for defence purposes in the north of Australia. 
Is Cloncurry Airport still the best defence airport in north-western Queensland. 
Is the nearest largest airport at Mount Isa still inadequate for defence purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
When will the reports be received from the (a) working party established by the Australian Educational Council meeting on 8 December 1978 to investigate the coordination of planning and administration between the Tertiary Education Commission and the States through either the provision of a direct State representative on the Commission or the establishment of more appropriate consultative arrangements, ( b ) working party of senior officers established by the Council meeting in Melbourne on 8 December 1978 to compile information on programs being undertaken or contemplated to facilitate the transition of young people from school to possible employment and to recommend the further development of such action by education authorities of the States and the Commonwealth and (c) working party established by the Council at its last meeting in Melbourne to examine the consultative arrangements and procedures including legislative provisions, governing the distribution of Commonwealth funds to the States through the Schools Commission. 
) Is it a fact that a letter was sent to the Queensland Minister for Education by the Queensland Association of Academic Staff in Colleges of Advanced Education stating its opposition to what it refers to as a Commonwealth Government proposal to introduce shared funding for tertiary education. 
) If so, what action has the Minister taken in this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 28 March 1 979: 
1 ) What applications have the Minister or any of his colleagues received for assistance for a cyclone probing program known as Storm-Fury to operate in conjunction with a similar program in the United States of America. 
Will the Minister give this proposal his earliest and earnest consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Has the Commonwealth grant to the Wide Bay Burnett Conservation Council been reduced from $5,000 to $2,850 for the current year. 
Have other grants to voluntary conservation organisations fallen by a similar percentage for the current year. 
Is it a fact that the Wide Bay Burnett Conservation Council has been singled out for this reduction in grant because of the Council's involvement with the Fraser Island sand mining issue. 
Will the Minister consider the abolition of the dollar for dollar condition placed on voluntary conservation groups in order to qualify for a Commonwealth grant. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
1 ) Will he take action to alter the system of annual referral by general practitioners to specialists to allow cases where permanent specialist treatment is required to seek referral only once every 2 years. 
Would this alteration effect a reduction in health costs to the public and the Government. 
When was the last Departmental review of the system involving referrals from general practitioners to specialists. 
Was any dissatisfaction with the system indicated in that review. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) When will a permanent chairman be appointed to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
2 ) When did the vacancy occur. 
What efforts has the Minister made to find an appropriate candidate for the position, complying with the requirements of the Act. 
What are the qualifications of the acting chairman of the Authority. 
) When will the Authority designate the first stage of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. 
What areas will be included in the first stage. 
Has the Queensland Government raised any objection to these areas being included. 
Has any Department of the Commonwealth Government objected to any of these areas being included. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
1 ) Is Cloncurry Airport Qld presently an all-weather airport with the facility for jet and other types of aircraft to land? 
Has a decision been made to transfer the operation of the airport to the local council? 
If so, what is the size of the present landing strips and to what size will they be reduced? 
What is the size of aircraft presently able to land at Cloncurry? 
With a reduction in the size of the landing strips, what will be the size of aircraft that (a) will have restricted opportunities for landing and (b) will be unable to land? 
Is Cloncurry being abandoned as an alternative major western Queensland airport? 
I draw the Treasurer's attention to Budget Paper No. 1, pages 60 and 6 1. It states that the growth in total employment in 1979-80 should be a little above 0.75 per cent or about 50,000 people. Is it a fact that annual net additions to the work force are about 1 10,000? So even if the Budget's unrealistic and optimistic forecasts are achieved, the number of unemployed will still be 50,000 to 60,000 higher next year as a result of the Budget. 
-Once again we have been entertained by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  It is a shame that he cannot navigate otherwise he could help his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to put Australia on the right course so that it might again become a great nation. Of the Bills before us today the most fundamental is the Navigation Amendment Bill. The other Bills are merely consequential, arising out of the provisions of that amending Bill. This is not the first occasion on which this Bill or one like it has appeared before the Parliament. In 1976, during the debate on the Navigation Amendment Bill 1976, my colleague the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  said that passage of that Bill had been delayed for more than a year. Today we are still discussing what is basically the same Bill. This is the third occasion on which this legislation has been before the House. It has probably made more reappearances than Dame Nellie Melba. Let us hope that on this occasion it will be a case of 'third time lucky'. 
As a Queenslander I am especially interested in the fate of this Bill and the associated Bills, including the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment BUI. Queensland has more coastline than any other State except Western Austrtalia But more importantly, Queensland has Australia's greatest natural wonder- the Great Barrier Reef. Every effort must be made to ensure that our navigational aids and maritime regulations are of sufficient standard to guarantee the reef's safety and protection from navigational disasters, which in the last few months have been all too frequent around the world. 
We are indebted to my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who, when Minister for Transport, commissioned a report by  Mr Mai  Summers concerning guidance in matters pertaining to navigational aids and maritime regulations. The Summers report highlighted the need for modernisation of existing legislation and one can appreciate how that is absolutely vital when one considers that after almost 80 years as a federation our shipping industry has been regulated largely by British legislation drawn up for the purpose of a nineteenth century colonial empire. Our maritime policy is only slowly emerging from the antiquated shackles of federalism and the attendant matters of uniformity in State legislation. 
The Navigation Amendment Bill deals with such matters as ship movements reporting, special purpose ships, and the limitation of a ship owner's liability. Inasmuch as the Bill gives effect to the decisions taken at four Internavigational Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions, it is most deserving of support. It is especially important in respect of the Convention on the International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea of 1 972 and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention of 1974. In this regard the provision that gives legal effect to the ship movement reporting scheme- AUSREP- is commendable. AUSREP provides the matter and organisational cohesion which is vital for sea rescue. I hasten to add that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  should not claim AUSREP as his own because rightly the credit belongs to his predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle. Importantly, the Bill extends the regulations of the Act to include foreign masters and seamen who are engaged in operations within Australian waters. Recently the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave notice that he is considering the admission of Taiwanese fishing interests into Australia's 200-mile fishing zone. If this comes to pass we should be absolutely certain that the rules of the sea are abided by and that adequate measures are taken for contravention of these rules. 
Most of the measures contained in the Bill commend themselves. They are practically selfevident. For example, clause 52 deals with reports of movements of ships. It requires masters of Australian ships to lodge sailing plans with departmental officers prior to their departure. As well, masters are obliged to report daily and at prescribed times. It is intended to cover the passage of ships within a defined area around Australia. The requirements also apply to foreign ships making voyages between Australian ports and engage compliance on a voluntary basis over other voyages. For the most part, as my colleague has already pointed out, the Bill conforms with machinery matters and this side of the House does not oppose the broad thrust of the legislation. There are, however, two areas covered by the Bills which are of special concern to me. 
The Government's amending Bill purports to update what the Minister refers to as old, inflexible amending provisions of the Act in line with contemporary practice in other countries as well as to introduce uniformity into the structure of qualifications for officers and other seamen. Uniformity of legislation in this area is canvassed in the Summers report. I should like to express grave reservations about the minimum manning concept involved in the main provisions of this amending legislation. As a matter of fact, in May of last year the Minister said that he did not want the Government involved in industrial aspects of manning. That statement is consistent with the Minister's strait-jacket, ideological puritanism, but unfortunately it seems to bear little relevance to the reality of manning policy. The Minister's minimum manning concept is rejected by both unions and shipowners. As well, there is dissension within the Minister's Department over the introduction of this concept. Far from removing the Government from the centre of industrial dispute it could conceivably place the Government, through an instrumentality of the Department of Transport, such as the mercantile marine office, at the very heart of the dispute. 
At present the system operates satisfactorily; in fact it was suggested by the shipowners themselves in 1964. They wanted the Government to administer the engagement of crew. In the event that a shipowner cannot go out with his full complement and the union concerned is unable to supply the replacement, the Department personally has the authority through the Manning Act to allow minimum manning consistent with safety regulations. The union accepts this and there is no dispute. Under the amended Act this would all change. The union and the shipowners would discuss the manning problem and in the event of no agreement being reached it would then be referred to a safety manning committee, which would include representation of the Department. But this committee has no authority to settle disputes. A committee without teeth has no bite whatsoever. If agreement is not reached at this stage presumably it will then go to arbitration. 
The value of the present and proposed schemes parallel the merits of arbitration as opposed to conciliation. Such a move to arbitration as opposed to the conciliatory role played by the Department in the present arrangements will mean a delay in voyages and excessive industrial disputation. It is lunacy to take such a role out of the hands of experienced departmental officers and pass it to the courts. As a Brisbane executive of the Seamen's Union of Australia told me, minimised government intervention as proposed by the Minister will mean not increased industrial disputation, but the introduction of such disputes over manning. Until now that area has been free from industrial tension. 
Certainly, as the Minister said the Schedules, especially Schedule 2, are outmoded, going back to 1912. Having one extra ablebodied seaman for every 500 tonnes over 2,000 tonnes is preposterous in modern terms, but the manning committee has overcome that successfully for many years by good will and co-operation. All the maritime unions and shipowners, apart from the Australian National Line, are opposed to any change. If the Minister had listened to those departmental officers with years of experience in this area he would have adopted a different course. 
I turn now to the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill. I was especially interested to see in this Bill an extension of the number of countries in which depositions concerning injured seamen can be taken before a judge or magistrate. Other countries, as well as those of the Commonwealth, are now to be included as prescribed countries in line with the Navigation Amendment Bill. I am interested in this amendment because it was my sorry experience quite recently to inquire into a case of compensation involving Seaman Reginald Saverpson. I inquired through the Seamen's Union about  Mr Saverpson  's chances of receiving compensation for the injury he suffered while working on the tug  Virile.  A member of the executive of the Seamen's Union informed me that Rollem Pty Ltd which owns the  Virile  had the tug registered in Tonga. The union does not hold the proprietors of that company in high regard. It has had a good deal of business with them in the past in relation to unpaid wages and so forth. In the opinion of the Union, the only government to which a claim for compensation might be successfully directed by  Mr Saverpson  is the Government of Tonga. I take this opportunity while the Minister for Transport is at the table to ask him whether under the present or amended Act this man might receive some compensation for his injury. 
Like many others,  Mr Saverpson  made the mistake of working without a contract on a boat owned by people who apparently have no sense of justice or fair play. These types of owners should be investigated. In regard to this matter clause 16 of the Navigation Amendment Bill seems to have some bearing on the limitation of liability a ship 's owner has in respect of claims by crew members, their heirs, personal representatives or dependants in cases of accident or death. I fear, however, that it will fall short in providing adequate protection. In 1975 when a navigation Bill was presented to Parliament by the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, the present Minister for Transport said: 
There does not exist in Australia the incentive for men to go to sea and earn their living. 
Clearly, the provisions of this Bill must be designed to improve the conditions of work for Australian seamen. The Summers report confirms the just claim of Australian seamen to fair working conditions by referring in paragraphs 6 and 17 to the frequent claims from ship owners that labour costs and irresponsible industrial actions are stifling the Australian shipping industry. In paragraph 19 the Commission says that it has been all too easy to blame lack of development in the shipping industry on industrial matters. The Commission called on the Federal Government to act as a go-between to get the labour and management sides of the industry together. The performance of the present Minister has been far from that of a conciliator or an arbitrator. He has chosen to aggravate rather than conciliate. 
It seems from my reading of the Seamen's Compensation Bill that those seamen unfortunate or unwise enough to sign up with ships registered outside Australia with no insurance arrangements will not be comforted by the amendments proposed in this legislation. As far as I can see, the amendments are of no substantial consequence. They afford precious little protection to those who are employed on ships registered in such exotic places as Panama or Liberia. We are left with the status quo where protection is extended only to those seamen who work on ships whose articles of agreement are entered into in Australia. If the Government is genuinely concerned about seamen's compensation, insurance should be made compulsory. Moreover, there should be a sincere attempt to prohibit foreign registrations of wholly Australian-owned ships. As well the provisions of the Navigation Act should be made to apply to Australian owned but foreign registered ships. 
It is interesting to hear the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  defaming the supposed alternative Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  All we have heard in the speeches of Government supporters is what the Leader of the Opposition would do. None of them has had the gall to defend his Government's useless Budget. All they do is attack the Leader of the Opposition's supposed alternative Budget. I am one for believing in giving credit where it is due. But I must confess that I am well and truly scratching to find anything praiseworthy in this miserable Budget. 
I suppose that every Budget has its silver lining. In this Government's graveyard of broken promises and deception I am pleased to see that the Government has at last taken notice of and given effect to my pleas of 1978 and again this year for tax exemption on aids for the blind and the deaf. I point out that, after 18 months of my campaign of questions, speeches, petitions and personal representations, the Government has removed the sales tax on aids for the blind and deaf. If the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had acted on my representation early in 1978 and removed the tax then, many blind people would have saved considerable sums when purchasing their special aid equipment. After all, the cost to the Government for giving tax relief to these very needy people is a petty $100,000 per annum. That is a very small price to pay for helping those marvellous people who are afflicted with such infirmities. 
Having said that, I feel that I have exhausted all the praise that I can bestow on this Budget. Before elaborating on the incredible deceit .and stupidity of the Government's economic policy I wish to raise the matter of flexibility in Budget procedures in the Parliament. The present practice in delivering this nation's Budget is that after months of preparation the Treasurer presents it as a fait accompli, a pre-packaged parcel of economic policies. Once this spectacle is over, journalists who have been kept corralled are released to swamp the public with a flood of words and statistics. There are all sorts of media extravaganzas with important guests invited to' pass comment on the economic package. The nation reverberates with the buzz of comment and criticism about the Budget. Tonight as well as raising serious questions about this Government's misguided economic policy direction, I wish to question the value of this sort of Budgetfest. I believe it is both worthy and opportune to consider at this time the introduction of staggered Budgets rather than staggering Budgets, as we have been used to in the last few years. The last four Budgets, including the mini-Budget, have certainly been staggering by anyone's standard. 
We ought to consider staggered budgets. By that I mean Budgets which are announced over a period rather than all at once. It seems to me that Budgetfest has a lot more to do with the media orgy than it has to do with sound economic management. A fundamental assumption in Budget strategy is how the economy, that is, business and consumers, will react to the Government's economic intentions and forecasts for the coming year. Much of the detail contained in the Budget papers and the overall Budget strategy is entirely dependent on the way business and consumers react. For example, in this Budget the Government told us that we would receive a cut in taxation as of 1 December this year. The strategic presumption of the Government is based on the actions which will flow from this cut. That flow-on depends very much on how taxpayers see or perceive this much heralded tax cut. 
It is a tax cut which the Government has spent enormous sums upon and been at great pains to explain to the community, but the scheme has come unstuck, so too has the Budget strategy. This is partly the result of a morning phone call to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  from the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association,  Mr Eric  Risstrom, the morning after the night before. I shall say more about  Mr Risstrom  and the Government's reaction to his revelations later. 
To most Australians that phone call, broadcast on the ABC's  AM  program, marks the moment when their patience with this Government finally ran out. It marks the time when once and for all this Government's credibility was buried, along with all its own many broken promises. Australian taxpayers were led to believe that the high point of this year's Budget, its selling feature, was the cherished tax cut, which after all is only the abolition of the Government's tax surcharge imposed last year. The 1978 Budget tax surcharge, as we all know, was itself a breach of promise. When it was extended in the May 1979 mini-Budget, the Government managed to break an already broken promise. Australian taxpayers now know that last year's blatant breach of faith in the Budget is replaced this year by a concealed and deceptive breach of faith. All that the Government has learned in the past 12 months is to develop its ability for swindling, falsehood, sleight of hand, mendacity and general hocus-pocus to the level of an art form. The Government has not become wiser or more compassionate, it has only become more cunning and deceptive. The truth which has dawned on Australian taxpayers- not on the night of the Budget, not even on the day after the Budget, but within a week after the Budget- is this: 'We may indeed see a reduction in our tax installments on 1 December, but for the period of the present year, all those below the annual income of $162,555 per annum will in fact pay more tax than they paid last year'. The so-called tax cut is artful deception. This Prime Minister will go down in history as Australia's Fagin and his servile Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  as a Down Under version of the Artful Dodger. 
Before I continue with that theme, I shall resume my original suggestion regarding the possibility of staggered Budgets. In this regard, it is worth looking briefly at the Government of 
France. The French conduct their national elections over 2 weekends. In the first election they allow voters to express their preference for candidates and parties. Following a week in which the people can reflect on the events and results of that weekend, they vote again to select finally their representatives for the national Parliament. In essence, this is what is meant by a staggered Budget. Either the general strategy or part of the Budget detail should be revealed in one week and time should be allowed for community feedback from those proposals. Adjustment of the remainder of the Budget can be made following an analysis of that feedback. 
I suppose the suggestion would have had very little support prior to this Budget but I believe the confusion created by this Budget- not only in the community, but within the Government as well- has highlighted the need for a general overhauling of the process by which Budgets are planned and the manner in which they are delivered. I might add that this suggestion should be taken only in that context of an overall review of Budget procedure. 
Earlier this year, following the May miniBudget, the Opposition 's economic spokesman, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  suggested that the Government might like to print the Budget on perforated sheets of paper so that, as each Budget promise was broken, the relevant pages could be easily removed. May I suggest that perhaps the Budget could be printed on clear plastic because it is already transparent. I do not think I would be too unkind to suggest that the Budget could quite appropriately be printed on toilet paper. Certainly it would be of more use to the unemployed in that form than it is in its present state. 
I return to the proposal to have 2 separate Budget statements- one general and one specific- about a week apart. The intervening week could be spent patching up the holes exposed by public and independent expert analysts. As it is, the Government is locked in to its Budget commitments for another year, failing of course another May mini-Budget. Rather than the Government admitting mistakes or misjudgments in this year's Budget, it will have to bluff its way through. It will resort to the old, worn out cliche: 'What about the Whitlam Government?'. This Government does not have reasons for its policies; it has just got excuses for its mistakes and its deception. In this country we have government by alibi. You can be sure that no matter what happens in the economy the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have some alibi. They say: 'Don't blame us. We only govern the place. Blame the unions, blame the public servants, blame Eric Risstrom'. What about the poor old Labor Party again? The Government has had 4 years to tidy up matters and it is just doing a hopeless job. 
Not only is the character of this Government so lacking that it cannot admit mistakes, but the inbuilt Budget procedure is too straight-jacketed and inflexible. A classic example of how inflexible Budgets have become is clear from the Government's reaction to the release of the June quarter national account figures. They are down 9 per cent- an appalling situation. The Government made a few superficial amendments, but this fall in the non-farm gross domestic productivity did not register in terms of the Budget strategy. To all intents and purposes the Government ignored the figures. The revelations which have followed this Budget lead us to ask the question: Did the Government know it was deceiving the people by trumpeting the virtues of the tax cuts without at the same time explaining that real earnings and the real standard of living would both decline, while real taxation would rise? Did it know those facts and therefore attempt willingly to dupe the public or was it so incompetent or ill-advised that the figures produced by  Mr Eric  Risstrom and confirmed by other independent commentators around Australia came as a genuine surprise?  Mr Risstrom  says the Treasurer seemed surprised when he confronted him with his tabulations. I heard the Prime Minister say on  AM,  after  Mr Risstrom  had phoned: 'I think it might be a bit too early to discuss detailed figures'. He confessed later that the figures were too difficult to follow. 
I am not about to call the Prime Minister a liar or call him dishonest. I will leave that for other people to decide. The facts will allow the public to decide for themselves whether this Prime Minister or this Government is genuine or not. The undeniable fact is that this Budget will cost average families an extra $7.90 a week, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said in his speech earlier tonight. Another undeniable fact, one admitted in the Government's own Budget Papers, is that wages will rise by 9 per cent, total tax revenue will increase by 15 per cent and inflation will also rise to 10 per cent. In relation to that last figure I should point out that the estimate for inflation in last year's Budget was five per cent. The real figure for the past year was closer to 10 per cent. If the estimate for this year is 10 per cent, what can we realistically expect the correct inflation rate to be? Independent analysts have already questioned the Budget projection of two per cent in the economic growth. A more realistic estimate is one per cent. How many more projections can be trusted? 
In bringing down such a contractionary Budget in the middle of a recession, the Government has managed at the same time to stimulate inflation, mainly through the indirect and very crude' crude oil levy. While paying more for health and petrol and all the commodities which increased petrol prices have inflated, taxpayers will find that they are paying more real tax with less real earnings. A taxpayer on average weekly earnings who has dependants will pay 1 5.2 per cent more tax this financial year. As we have come to expect from this Government, those who will suffer the most are those who have the least, those on the lower end of the ladder. Even by the most conservative estimates, people earning $6,000 per annum with dependants will pay an effective tax increase of 1 34.63 per cent. 
The Treasury itself admits in the Budget Papers that real disposable income will fall. Yet the Prime Minister and the Artful Dodger persist in using the old discredited government public relations line: 'What about the tax cuts in November?' The tax cuts have been revealed to be considerably less than they are made out to be in the Budget Speech. At the moment, the surcharge is extracted on the basis of a rate of 2.57 per cent for the first five months of this financial year. It will not apply over the last seven months. This means that the cuts look more generous than when calculated on an annual basis. The full year surcharge rate for 1 979-80 is 1 .07 per cent. This is 7 1 per cent of the surcharge for the full year 1978-79 of 1.5 per cent. Therefore, in annual terms, this year's surcharge is only marginally smaller than last year's surcharge. The Government's tax bluff is a cynical political ploy. The Treasurer admitted last week that the tax cut was chosen in preference to introduction of tax indexation because there was more political mileage to be gained from the move. That should not have surprised anyone, although the fact that the Treasurer admitted it is something of a revelation. 
The honourable member for Phillip will be a veteran next time. The publicity which followed the Budget has centred on the tax trick. Of course, the unemployed are really the greatest losers. I shall soon refer to them. 
I should like for the moment to examine the impact of this Budget in Queensland, especially in light of recent promises made by the Queensland Premier in the heat of a by-election campaign. Clearly, the States are being squeezed. The Premier, meanwhile, has tried to buy votes, desperately and somewhat belatedly, by promising rail links north to Redcliffe and south to the Gold Coast. In the case of the Gold Coast, he has clearly ignored the advice of expert consultants that the coast rail link would not pay, although it would cost well over $100m. The Government's specific and general purpose allocations to Queensland will not enable it to raise the money from its own State revenue. The Queensland Government will have to borrow the money and, in order to service the loan, will obviously have to increase State taxes either by indirect taxation or by following the Fraser federalism policy and imposing an income tax surcharge on Queenslanders. The Premier should be aware of the pitfalls of making promises that he cannot keep. He has only to look at the man whom he helped to elect Prime Minister of this country to see how ingenuine promises will catch up with him. 
Of course, one of the promises that now severely embarrasses the Prime Minister is his unequivocal 1977 election policy speech commitment that unemployment would keep on falling through 1978 and 1979. This year 70,000 more people will be thrown on to the scrapheap of unemployment as a direct result of this Budget. Most of that number will be absorbed in the growing mass of people who are neither employed nor officially unemployed. The Treasury not only admits that but also has based much of its strategy on that fact. The Government's response to record unemployment is to force skilled workers to accept unskilled work up to 100 kilometres from where they live. Among the draconian conditions imposed on the unemployed by the present Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is that they must accept a job unless travelling costs are more than one-tenth of the wages. This is how the Government approaches the serious problem of economic structural re-adjustment, to mop up the record unemployment and to reconcile the imbalance between unemployment in the skilled and unskilled sectors of the community. 
Government back benchers have valiantly tried to deflect criticism about the scandalous 69 per cent cut in the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the 44 per cent cut in the National Employment and Training scheme and the 1 3 per cent cut in the Community Youth Support Scheme by referring to the increase of $26m for Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training. However, last year only $ 18m of the $28m allocated for CRAFT was actually spent. Most of this Budget's allocation for CRAFT- if it is in fact spent- will be soaked up in higher rates and natural increases rather than flowing on to increases in the number of apprentices. The unkindest cut of all is the excuse for slashing the Special Youth Employment Training Program; namely that employers were abusing the scheme. Why should the unemployed pay for the crimes of employers? We should punish those who are to blame, but we should not victimise those who are already victims. But that has been the story with this Government all along. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
Will the Attorney-General inquire into the rejection of an application for legal aid in Brisbane from  Mr John  Howard, 50 Wellington Street, Petrie Terrace, and indicate what were the reasons for rejection. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Did he in the course of the pre-budget deliberations consider the question of tax exemption for a new reading device for the blind called the OPTACON. 
Is the OPTACON device included in the list of items receiving tax exemption; if not, will this omission inflict an added financial burden on blind persons who wish to obtain it. 
3 ) Why is the device not receiving a tax exemption. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Ampol and Amoco have refused to join with Caltex in marketing a higher octane standard grade fuel which is cheaper than super grade and that motorists in the area serviced by the Brisbane refineries will not benefit from the introduction of this fuel. 
If so, will he take action to enable all Australian motorists to benefit from this fuel's introduction and, specifically, will he review the refineries-sharing agreement among oil companies. 
Has the Prime Minister received any communications from the Queensland Premier urging his Government to adopt legislation complementary to the essential services legislation introduced by the Queensland Government into the Queensland Legislative Assembly last week? When was the request received? What commitment will the Prime Minister undertake in respect of that request? 
-I also direct a question to the Minister for National Development. I also refer to his Press statement of 1 1 September. Are two of the projects funded under the Commonwealth regional development program - 
Five. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What will become of submissions on the introduction of broadcast teletext after 31 March 1979, the date established in his media statement of 12 January 1979, as the deadline for comment on the draft paper released by his Department and Telecom Australia. 
) When did work on the draft paper begin. 
Which commercial channels have technology for handling broadcast teletext and when did they acquire it. 
What efforts have been made to install that technology in ABC stations. 
Has any request been made by the ABC for additional finance for this technology. 
What is the next stage for the introduction of broadcast teletext. 
By what date does he propose broadcast teletext will be introduced and in operation anywhere in Australia. 
Is he able to say in which countries a system such as broadcast teletext exists. 
Is he able to say whether technicians of certain commercial stations where teletext technology is installed, believe that from an engineering point of view, immediate introduction of teletext (i.e. within 3 months) on a regular operational basis is quite possible, contrary to the view expressed in the draft paper. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital the main repatriation hospital in Queensland? Is it a fact that, based on staff levels all over Australia, departmental staff in Queensland should be increased by about 350 people? Is the Minister aware that the nursing staff at the hospital is sometimes over 30 per cent below the normal staffing level due to short time absences? Has the specialist medical staff association complained about the progressively deteriorating standard of medical care and said that many sections of the hospital were unable to provide adequate patient care? Have specialist staff members voted unanimously to protest strongly against restrictive policies which place the lives of their patients at risk? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the contributions to this debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden);  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen);  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones);  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  have been heralded by many Australians. These honourable members, to mention only a few, have shown that they are true and honourable Australians who are genuinely concerned for the welfare of all Australian citizens. Australia is very fortunate in that it is by most standards a free country. The price of freedom, as is said, is eternal vigilance. It is for that very purpose that we have a national security agency. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should never lose sight of that essential fact. It owes its very being to liberty and it is there to protect liberty, not to threaten it. Legislation relating to Australia's security always poses moral and practical problems. 
As a member of Parliament I find myself twixt the devil and the deep blue sea. Should I behave as a member of a national parliament and accordingly hand over enormous powers to the agency which is charged with the task of enforcing and ensuring our national security, or should I behave as a representative of my constituency and in that respect place my priority on the protection of those individuals in the community on the basis of national security? The issue can be summed up with this question: Where does national security end and infringement of basic civil liberties begin? We must begin with terminology and define explicitly what we mean by security. It must not be so elastic or rubbery that it encompasses what are at present quite legal forms of dissent and industrial disputation. As honourable members have already said in this House and as honourable senators have said in the other place, if the Parliament is to deal responsibly with these matters it must adopt a bipartisan approach and act with some regard for consensus. Certainly, in reading the record of the Senate debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, I see that the form of argument is conciliatory. That is indeed refreshing. The Government's belated procedure of keeping the Leader of the Opposition briefed in security matters is an example of the recognition of the need for compromise on security matters. 
Following previous speakers, I should like to add my warm congratulations to  Mr Justice  Woodward for the excellent manner in which he is performing his duty as Director-General of ASIO. Under his direction many sound reforms have been introduced to provide a more effective and responsible security agency. There is a great deal of unanimity between the Opposition and the Government on the subject of the DirectorGeneral. The Bill before us today constitutes for the most part the Government's response to the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. In a variety of ways, the Government's Bills do not accord with  Mr Justice  Hope's proposals. This legislation is an imperfect and distorted reflection of the Hope report. The changes are so far reaching that it has been necessary to repeal the Menzies Government's Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act 1956. It is proper, then, that every honourable member wishing to express an opinion on this very important issue be given the right of expression in this House. It is both a right and a duty. 
Particular areas which are covered by this bill and which are most important to me are those which effect the checks and balances mechanisms within ASIO. They are ASIO 's values which allow us to go to sleep at night reassured in the knowledge that every measure that could be adopted to safeguard our liberties has been taken. At the same time, they have been taken without impairing or jeopardising the effectiveness of a responsible security organisation. If correspondence that I and many other honourable members have received has been any indication, the procedure for telephone tapping, the issuance of warrants for tapping, opening mail, installing listening devices, the supply of information for the responsible Minister, the scrutiny of ASIO's finances, the guidelines for security assessments and the notifications of adverse assessments are problems about which many in the community have expressed grave apprehension. Time permitting, I shall touch briefly on most of these areas. 
On 3 April this year, after a very lengthy and sometimes passionate second reading debate, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his reply said that he was considering whether the Minister in charge of ASIO should provide to Parliament from time to time some statement in relation to some of the matters contained in the report and thereby give the Parliament an opportunity to discuss the Organisation. He said: 
I am inclined to believe that the Government could underline such a statement. 
He went on to say: 
I consider that it is a reasonable proposition that Parliament should have that opportunity. 
We know that the Senate is not characterised by the cut and thrust that goes on in the proceedings of this chamber, but even for that chamber, such a concession is remarkable. I sincerely hope that that commitment will not be left to die or languish in the Senate. I hope that some measure of the conciliation that was evident in the Minister's reply in the Senate filters through to this House and to his colleagues in the ministry. 
Regarding the Opposition's persistent call for a judicial audit, I note from the Minister's reply that he feels that it would be inappropriate for such a proposal to be included as an application in legislation. The Minister did not close the door to that suggestion. In fact, he left the whole subject wide open for consideration and implementation on an ad hoc basis. I am sure that the Opposition would cease baying like hounds at the Government's heels if we were given a verbal commitment that judicial audits should be conducted without breaking into any legislative commitment. I am also sure that we are sufficiently generous and accommodating to at least be grateful for such an assurance. A verbal commitment from even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would go some way towards reaching consensus. The reason for persistence in this regard is obvious. The Bill proceeds on the basis that the personal integrity and bona fides of two men- the Attorney-General and the Director-General of ASIO- are sufficient to assure our continuance in the security process. If the Minister and heads of departments were infallible and immortal, perhaps this trust would be adequate.  Senator Evans  said of the Attorney-General: 
The greatest threat that most of us feel when  Senator Durack  is on his feet is that he will fall asleep before he finishes his sentence. 
Very simply, the Attorney-General is not made of the stuff of which despots and storm-troopers are composed. As I have said before, I have great regard for the fine work  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward has carried out since his appointment by the Labor Government. But the fact is that Directors-General and Attorneys-General do move on because of either death, dismissal or defeat. The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  knows that effect of life only too well. Each of the three previous Attorneys-General has fallen for one of those three reasons. As my Leader the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  asked in his speech earlier today: What happens after  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward retires? Who takes over as head of ASIO then? Blind trust in two fallible individuals, no matter who they are, does not encourage us to sleep more soundly and securely. Checks, if they are to work properly and are to be seen to work, must be institutionalised. The Opposition's amendments simply achieve that measure of accountability. 
I have already referred to the need for regular reports to the Parliament. That notion commends itself. The former Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  established that the principle of parliamentary accountability was workable. In 1973 as Attorney-General he disclosed that in the previous 10 years ASIO had conducted an average of approximately 100 telephone taps. That disclosure did not precipitate anarchy, nor was 
Australia's security cover blown as a result Our spies were not left out in the cold. Neither would our security be damaged now if ASIO revealed to the Parliament the numbers and the kinds of warrants issued for taps, listening devices, mail interceptions and so on. Indeed, I am reminded of what an American friend said in reply to my comment that the Watergate affair and subsequent Central Intelligence Agency revelations must have severely affected the conscience of American society. He said that shocking as the revelations were, people were comforted by the fact that only in precious few countries could the truth be exposed in such a way. This fact fortified Americans' confidence in their system of institutional checks and balances. So too should the Australian judiciary be involved in our security network. 
The investigations by  Mr Justice  Hope and in South Australia by  Mr Justice  White and  Mrs Justice  Mitchell provided salutary lessons in the value of a judicial audit or a review of our security processes. I should like now to refer to Justice Mitchell's report on the dismissal of Special Branch Commissioner Salisbury as an example of the sensitivities which exist in the area of security. She quotes Salisbury as saying: 
As I see it, the duty of the police is solely to the law. It is the Crown and not to any politically elected government or to any politician or to anyone else for that matter. 
Justice Mitchell sums up her own views by saying: 
That statement in so far that it seems to divorce duty to the Crown from a duty to the politically elected government suggests an absence of understanding of the constitutional system of South Australia or for that matter to the United Kingdom. 
That must also hold true for ASIO and its relations with this Parliament. We are able to say, Yes ASIO is accountable', only if we can be assured that the line of accountability can be traced unfalteringly from Director-General to Attorney-General to Parliament. As we have indicated, the Opposition believes it to be discreet and wise to limit the Attorney-General's power of access to files so that he or she knows of them, not about them. The details of files open the way for political abuse and we draw the line clearly at that point. The details of files clearly should not be disclosed to a politician, be he the Attorney-General or the Prime Minister. The final guarantee of accountability is desirous of maintaining a financial audit as was suggested in the Hope report. 
The revelations which surfaced in the Senate in the debate on this Bill and which concerned the apparent free-wheeling and unrestrained expenditure of ASIO must convince us of the obligation to rewrite the rules, not to formalise this illegality as the Government did in the last session. It is precisely the lack of accountability for financial matters and the apparent bottomless pit from which it drew its funds that enticed the CIA to put into effect some of its more harebrained schemes. There is a direct correlation between finances and the sort of activities in which the security agency becomes involved. A financial accountability therefore is vitally important in ensuring that a security agency stays within the bounds of a democratic society. 
-I must admit that I have a great deal of respect for the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  but I am completely amazed that a prominent member of the Liberal Party can stand in this place and defend the Joh BjelkePetersen slush fund. It is absolutely incredible. The honourable member for Lilley knows full well what the Premier of Queensland is doing with his slush fund. That he can be so hypocritical and support the Premier of Queensland, the National Party and its slush fund is absolutely amazing. The honourable member for Lilley denigrated John Curtin House, named after a famous Australian, yet he stood up for Joh Bjelke-Petersen who will go down as the most notorious and corrupt Australian ever to enter the political sphere. 
Today we are debating the use of the income tax law for party political purposes. That is the main argument. This matter began on 2 April when  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  told a gathering of 300 party faithful at the Cloudland Ballroom in Brisbane 'The 21st century belongs to us'. The occasion was to launch the Joh Bjelke-Petersen Foundation which is aimed at raising $2. 5m to keep the party afloat financially and expand its activities in the 1980s. I wonder what sort of activities they are. Are they the land deals, the Iwasaki deals or deals to drill and mine the Great Barrier Reef? The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  may know whether Joh has done any deals regarding the mining and drilling of the Great Barrier Reef. 
There has also been a donation of $100,000 from  Sir Bruce  Small. I wonder how many advertisements he will get for $100,000. The newspaper is brought out only four times a year. It will be a classic advertisement. But  Sir Bruce  Small did get to have dinner with Joh BjelkePetersen. I do not know whether  Mrs BjelkePetersen  was there. A person can have dinner with Joh for $25,000, just as  Mr Keith  Williams of the Gold Coast did. I shall read a little from an article about  Mr Keith  Williams as published in the  Sunday Mail of  12 August. The article states: 
Millionaire Gold Coast entrepreneur  Mr Keith  Williams is being paid $10,000 a year as  chairman  of the recentlycreated Gold Coast Waterways Authority. 
So  Mr Williams  is being paid $10,000 a year. In April of that year  Mr Keith  Williams donated $25,000 and had dinner with Joh BjelkePetersen. He is $5,000 in front already and if he is re-appointed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I remind the honourable member for Griffith that to date his remarks have not altogether related to the subject of the matter of public importance before the House. I would like him to address himself more pertinently to the matter. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I make the point that in a letter from the State  President  of the National Party it was pointed out that these donations were tax deductible. I shall read that letter to you very shortly. I am making the point that  Mr Williams  donated $25,000 in the hope, I am sure, that that money would be tax deductible. Strangely enough,  Mr Williams  finished up with a $10,000 a year job. That job is for three years. That is very amazing. One could probably say: Pay the price and name the prize. 
It is very interesting also that  Mr Rice  donated $100,000 to the fund. Here we have a prominent member of the Victorian Liberal Party donating $100,000 to the National Party in Queensland. Why would  Mr Rice  be donating $ 100,000 to the Joh Bjelke-Petersen slush fund? I wonder why. I think that  Mr Rice  also thought that his donation of $100,000 would be tax deductible. I wonder whether it is true that  Mr Rice  tried to stop people in Victoria from reading all about his donation of $100,000 and the allegations that he paid that $100,000 for a few favours. I ask you once again,  Mr Deputy  Speaker: Why would a prominent member of the Liberal Party donate $100,000 to the Joh Bjelke-Petersen fund when he has very good friends in the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and other Ministers from the Liberal Party.  Mr Rice  is a very interesting chap. I am glad to see that the people of Victoria can now read what has been stated in the Queensland Parliament. 
-One can buy a knighthood. They are cheap enough. One does not have to pay $25,000 for them. What we are all about here today is the use of the income tax law for party political purposes. In this regard I read part of a letter from  Mr Sparkes.  It states: 
I reiterate and stress the fact that any individual or company that supports the concept of the Foundation could provide indirect financial assistance in a manner which is tax deductible, provided of course that the supporter has a product or service that can be advertised. 
The procedure is for the supporter to purchase advertising space in the Party paper, the 'National Outlook' . . . 
I think that newspaper is produced four times a year. It is quite interesting to note that one can pay $100,000 for advertising space in that newspaper. That would pay for a quite substantial advertisement. It would probably take up the four pages of the newspaper. I wonder what sort of advertisement  Mr Rice  will put in that newspaper? 
-As my colleague has pointed out, the advertisement would probably be about Kentucky fried chicken. I quote further from the letter which, I remind the House, is from the State President of the National Party in Queensland: 
There is no doubt whatsoever about the legitimacy of the advertising approach as far as the Taxation Department is concerned. The Foundation has obtained impeccable legal and accounting opinion on this matter, and it unequivocally confirms that the Taxation Department has no authority to query the 'value for money' aspect of the advertising. 
Enclosed is a photostat copy of an opinion in support of this contention. 
I also have here a copy of a letter which was sent to  Senator Colston  by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I would be only too happy to table the letter. I do not know whether the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  did so during his speech. I will not bore the House by reading the whole letter; I shall quote only part of the letter. It reads:   . . the allowance of deductions for outgoings to the extent that they are incurred in gaining or producing a taxpayer's assessable income or are necessarily incurred by a taxpayer in carrying on a business for that purpose, except to the extent that the outgoings are of a capital, private or domestic nature. 
The Commissioner is of the view that, to the extent that payments to the Foundation do not represent genuine advertising expenditure, deductions are not allowable in the assessments of donors and proposes to take action accordingly. 
So here we have a letter from the State  President  of the National Party saying that he has complete evidence from accountants and solicitors that these donations are tax deductible, yet we have the Commissioner of Taxation saying that they are not. Who is right? What is going on in Queensland? Are these people donating to the National Party to keep the terrible socialists and communists away from under their beds? Are these people donating to get advertisements in the Press, are they donating to get favours in connection with land deals and so on, or are they just donating so that they can keep Joh BjelkePetersen and his slush fund going and contribute to  Mr Hinze  's world tours? I think it is absolutely disgraceful that we can have this sort of thing going on in Australia today. As I say, it is absolutely disgraceful and can only be deplored by honourable members on this side of the House and by the people of Australia. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to reports that the Commonwealth Government is treating Queensland motorists like milch cows and to reports that the Minister's recent announcement on Queensland road allocations was a masterpiece of fiddled figures and juggled words? Is it a fact, as was claimed by the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads, that the Minister was attempting to pull an enormous con trick on Queensland? Will the Minister now undertake urgently to increase substantially Federal road funding on the Marlborough-Sarina section of the Bruce Highway in order to prevent the tremendous disruption and loss of life that occurs on that section each year? Finally, will the Minister for Transport confer urgently with the Minister for Primary Industry to discuss ways of upgrading this section of the road so that dairy and sugar farmers in north Queensland will have more reliable and safer access roads to southern markets? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the former Minister for Primary Industry say that in reaching agreement on the Japanese fishing agreement proper consultations had taken place among the Queensland Government, the Queensland fisheries organisations and the responsible Commonwealth authorities? Has he been informed that the responsible Queensland Minister has denied that consultations took place? Did the consultations take place or did they not? Finally, does the Minister include among the responsible Commonwealth authorities with which he says the Government has consulted the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, in whose backyard the Japanese will be fishing? 
-It gives me much pleasure to second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  on behalf of the Opposition. I am very disappointed that I will not have my full 20 minutes in which to speak. The Government intends to cut off the debate and I will have to reduce my speaking time to allow my friend, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  to have a few minutes in which to speak on this subject. I am glad the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  reduced his speaking time by three minutes to allow the honourabe member for Grey the opportunity to speak later. 
I will not take up the time of the House by talking about what the honourable member for Dawson has said but I take this opportunity to let the honourable member know what his colleague in the State Parliament of Queensland, the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  has been saying about the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I might add that the Minister is not even in the House at the moment. It is absolutely ludicrous that a Minister is allowed to hold down two important portfolios- the Country Party portfolios of Primary Industry and Transport. It is absolutely disgraceful that he is not even in the House when we are debating this most important issue. I hope that the National Country Party members will note that. Why do they not appoint the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  instead? He would make a great Minister. 
-The honourable member does not even care about the people in his electorate. It is no use his interjecting. I did not interrupt the honourable member's speech because I thought he wanted to give the honourable member for Grey a few minutes in which to speak, but he is too lousy even to do that now. 
Let me repeat what the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads said:   . .  Mr Nixon's  announcement of Queensland's allocation for this financial year was a masterpiece of fiddled figures and juggled words.  the Government was treating Queensland motorists like a milking cow. 
I noticed that our Queensland colleague did not talk about the poor old Queensland motorists and how the Minister for Transport and the Federal Government are treating them. The Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads also said that the Commonwealth Government is thieving $ 1,200m from Australian motorists under the guise of energy requirements. Whilst I have not much time for the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads,  Mr Hinze-  I could give him another name- I do think he is on the ball when he criticises the Federal Minister for Transport. Let me talk a little more about our great Minister for Transport and Minister for Primary Industry. 
-Oh, yes, he is a great man. He does not even know how to answer questions. On 6 July1979 in a statement issued concurrently with the release of the Bureau of Transport Economics report entitled 'An assessment of the Australian road system 1979', the Minister said: 
Commonwealth Government allocation for roads is to be determined in the overall budgetary context as one of a range of expenditure programs for which the Government is responsible. 
It is almost as though the budgetary context is something which the Government has no control over or responsibility for. The Minister does not have to come into this House and make statements like that. It is the standard apology of all Ministers who preside over the most fundamentall and far reaching cuts in expenditure that have ever been imposed by an Australian government. Superficially it is reasonable to say that expenditure on roads must lie within the context of Budget priorities, but the Government's priorities are of its own making. They are determined by its own Cabinet of which the Minister for Transport is a senior member. The decisions on priorities are totally dominated by the economic obsessions of this Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  So when the Minister for Transport says 'We must spend within the Budget context', he means that his Prime Minister's outdated, one-eyed economic obsessions have forced him to ignore the real needs of his portfolio. 
Let us look at the expenditure and revenue components of the Budget. We find that government revenue gained from the excise on petroleum products and oil- otherwise known as the petrol tax- has increased from $1,1 12m in 1976-77 to $ 1,336m in 1977-78 and to $2,096m in 1978-79. For the same period, road expenditure increased from $434m to $47 8m and to $508 respectively. While this year's roads appropriation is $546m, revenue from the petrol tax for this year is estimated to be a minimum of $2, 100m. Of course this figure escalates every time the world price of oil increases. 
I hope that the Government is considering providing service station attendants and service station proprietors with the same privileges as those received by our Federal public servants because this Government has made those service station attendants and those service station proprietors more successful tax collectors than the public servants in the Taxation Office. While businessmen and men of the medical profession are daily coming up with tax avoidance schemes and are confounding the bureaucrats of the Taxation Office, people cannot avoid the petrol tax. About the only tax avoidance scheme that the Opposition can recommend to the motorist is that he sell his car. That is the only way in which he will be able to avoid paying petrol tax. But of course, as we all know, all the statistics show that petrol consumption has not fallen as a result of the petrol tax. The Government's claim that the petrol tax is an energy conservation measure is demonstrably untrue. It is simply a convenient, expedient and indirect form of raising revenue and of ripping off taxpayers regardless of means or their ability to pay. 
At the same time, the oil companies are reaping windfall profits. Esso-BHP receives $5.12 a barrel from its Bass Strait field whereas its production costs are a mere $1 a barrel. Its profit therefore is well over 400 per cent. This would not be so bad if guarantees were attached to the effect that the oil companies would reinvest in Australian exploration. But we can rest assured that that is not likely to happen. By following world parity pricing policies, which even officers of the Department of National Development have discredited, the Government is charging refineries $18.66 a barrel. It is taking $13.54 from each barrel. It is a secret and iniquitous tax. 
While the Government and the oil companies reap this harvest of petro-dollars, road grants to the States, represented as a percentage of total budgetary outlay, continue to fall. They fell from 1.983 per cent in 1975-76 to 1.72 per cent in 1979-80. The figures for road funding, expressed as a percentage of the gross domestic product, are just as damning. In 1972-73, the Commonwealth allocation to the States was 0.69 per cent of the GDP. By 1976-77, this amount had declined to 0.54 per cent, representing for that period a shortfall of $2 5 6m. That amount has further declined to 0.54 per cent in 1977-78 and to 0.50 per cent in 1978-79. Against that, let us measure the increase in national expenditure on roads during the previous Labor Administration. During Labor's term of office, the amount rose from $3 16m to $433.5m. Queensland's allocation leapt from $50m to $89m under the Labor Administration. In the four-year period of this Government, the expenditure increase has been a miserable 24 per cent- no real increase whatsoever. 
The present minister for Transport has continued to ignore the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads which declared that, for the 1979-80 period, $7 13m should be expended on roads. This is a far cry from the $546m which has been made available. At page 208 of the report, the Bureau clearly states that all projects in a five-year program between 1976-77 and 1980-81 would yield discounted benefits greater than the discounted costs of the undertaking. In other words, benefits would outweigh costs. 
I will have to cut short my speech but, before I conclude my remarks, I point out the alarm that has been brought to the attention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  by Alderman Ardill, who is  chairman  of the Planning and Traffic Committee of the Brisbane City Council. Alderman Ardill wrote to my leader about this matter. I shall read part of what he wrote: 
Is there any action that you can take to shame the Federal Government into spending more money on urban arterial roads? 
At present, we are most alarmed at the lack of funding for the vital cross-connection from the Ipswich Highway to the Pacific Highway at Garden City, which will be needed for the Commonwealth Games in 1982. 

 Mr Russ Hinze is reported as stating that there is now real doubt that roads to carry traffic to Brisbane's 1982 Commonwealth Games would be ready on time.  Mr Hinze  has said that the Federal Government will not be giving the Brisbane City Council any money to finish those roads in time for the 1982 Commonwealth Games. That is absolutely disgraceful. The Federal Government does not even care about the 1 982 Commonwealth Games. It does not even care about the people who will be coming to Australia for the 1 982 Commonwealth Games. I am sorry to have to cut short my speech but I do so with honour and pleasure to allow my friend, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  to say a few words on this matter. 
I wish to bring a matter of concern to the attention of the Parliament this evening. It is a matter of grave and alarming concern to many constituents in my electorate and many Queenslanders. I refer to the agreement that has been reached between the Australian Government and Japanese fishing companies with regard to the 200-mile fishing zone. In my two years as a member of Parliament I have never been inundated with so many phone calls and complaints as I have about the 200-mile fishing zone. The complaints mainly have concerned the Japanese long line fishermen who will fish in the Great Barrier Reef region.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have probably been inundated with calls. I know that all your colleagues have been inundated with phone calls. They started because of a radio announcement by Haydn Sergeant which brought to the notice of people the dangers to the population of black marlin in the Queensland Great Barrier Reef region. 
I point out that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who now wears two caps- he is also the Minister for Primary Industry- stated in the House the other day that there was a lack of research with regard to the black marlin population in the fishing zones of the Great Barrier Reef. Research has been carried out by the Institute of Marine Science in the University of Miami, the United States Department of Commerce National Marine Fisheries Service in California,  Mr J.  W. Anderson of the International Game Fishing Association and the Cairns Game Fishing Club in its tagging report in 1977. Were these studies taken into account in negotiations with the Japanese in respect of the Australian-Japanese Agreement? The Department of Primary Industry is also carrying out research in this area. Has the Government gone ahead with the agreement with the Japanese in respect of the 200-mile fishing zone before the Department has finished its research into the black marlin fishing areas? There have been many newspaper reports on this matter. One was headed 'Disaster if fish plan goes through'. It stated: 
North Queensland's $20 million game fishing industry could be wrecked by a proposed $ 1 ,400,000 agreement between the Australian and Japanese Governments . . . 
A report in the  Courier-Mail  was headed 'Fraser fears marlin ban'. It stated: 
But  Mr Fraser  is understood to have expressed his concern about breaking faith with the Japanese Government- and the danger that renegotiation of the Australia-Japan fishing agreement could affect other trade contracts with Japan. 
The Prime Minister is saying one thing and the new Minister for Primary Industry, who wears two caps, is saying another. The former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  said that he had had consultations with all the State governments, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and fishing organisations. However, the Queensland Government said that it has had no such consultation. 
It is absolutely disgraceful. Who is misleading the people of Australia and, in particular, the people of Queensland? Is it the former Minister for Primary Industry or is it the Queensland Government? I think that they are both capable of misleading the people of Australia. 
Order! I ask the honourable member to desist from remarks of that nature. 
-The former Minister for Primary Industry said that he had informed the State governments but members of the Queensland Government- your colleagues,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  have said that they know nothing about it. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
Further to his answer to my question No. 3333  (Hansard,  22 May 1979, page 2226) what action has been taken concerning the suggestion I made early in 1979 for an investigation of safety requirements and standards in self-service petrol stations in all States and Territories. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Has he given an undertaking to investigate claims that conditions established by him for the purchase by the Iwasaki Sangyo Co. of property at Yeppoon, Queensland, have been reached. 
Has he established whether the Iwasaki Company had (a) purchased, (b) expressed interest in purchasing, or (c) negotiated to purchase property outside the boundaries established in the franchise agreement submitted to the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
Has he also established whether the Iwasaki Company had firm plans to extend into the cattle and forestry industries and expand its development into the Great Barrier Reef islands. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government been contacted by any member of the Queensland Government in connection with a sex education lecture given to pupils at a Brisbane college by a Sydney-based art lecturer whose trip to Brisbane was apparently financed by Commonwealth Government funds. 
If so, what assistance has the Government offered the Queensland Government for its investigation into this matter. 
What cultural organisations are involved and what is the amount Commonwealth Government assistance each receives. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) What was the decrease in the number of carcasses exported during the period January to June 1979 as compared with the same 6 months in 1978. 
Is it a fact that those countries to which Australia has exported live sheep are now competing with Australia in the overseas skin trade. 
Will he investigate the introduction of a more simple, less damaging form of identification for sheep and cattle as a means of saving more carcasses for use in the skin trade. 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
Have objections been raised by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Australian Public Service Association concerning the Minister's decision to employ contract labour for the operation and management of two satellite communications stations in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Is it a fact that the employment of contract labour in Landsat will deny public service staff training and experience in satellite communications and deprive them of the opportunity to develop skills in digital technology. 
Does the employment of contract labour allow the Department of Science and the Environment to circumvent its staff ceiling. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What is the percentage of accident probability in (a) take-offs, (b) flight time and (c) landings for all types of aircraft owned and operated by TAA. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
What is the difference in function between the National Energy Advisory Committee and the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Will the Commonwealth Government establish a standing Government/Industry Committee for the general administration of the Australian Fishing Zone as recommended in section 7.S of the report of the working group established by the Australian Fisheries Council; if so, will the Committee be comprised of 2 representatives from the Commonwealth Government (his Department and CSIRO), 2 representatives from the State Governments and 2 representatives nominated by the Australian Fishing Industry Council. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to criticisms made by the Queensland Tourist and Travel Corporation of the Federal Government and Qantas concerning the low percentage of incoming tourists to Australia who visit Queensland. 
If so, will he investigate ways of directing more overseas tourists to Queensland or through Queensland (i.e. through the Brisbane Airport) to the rest of Australia. 
Will he also investigate the possibility of redirecting flights originating in Australia for destinations in Europe, Asia and America through Brisbane Airport, thereby reducing the cost to Queenslanders of overseas air fares. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
1 ) How many civil bankruptcy proceedings have been commenced during each of the last 10 years in each State and Territory. 
What liabilities are still outstanding following those completed bankruptcy proceedings. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Have studies been conducted into the effect on driving behaviour of television programs in which dangerous and reckless driving is given strong emphasis. 
In view of the need to explore every avenue of road safety, will he consider commissioning this type of study in Australia. 
Will he also encourage the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to adopt more restrictive guidelines in reviewing television programs for the dangerous driving and automobile violence content. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that as a result of staff ceilings in the public service, the Trade Practices Commission has introduced a system of priorities in which cases are brought before it, thus causing long delays in hearing some cases. 
Is it also a fact that the Commission's cases, almost without exception, have been subjected to serious delays in court with important issues undecided sometimes for years. 
Will he undertake to lift staff ceilings and take whatever action is necessary to channel funds and resources to the Commission in order to expedite its business. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Does the Royal Australian Navy maintain a list of names of Australian and foreign boats travelling regularly between Australian and foreign ports; if so, by what name is the list known. 
Is it a fact that one of the purposes of the list is for the detection and investigation of drug running operations. 
Is it also a fact that surveillance of drug running activities would be more successfully undertaken if a maritime reconnaissance and surveillance unit were established in the RAN. 
-The Commonwealth Grants Commission is a finely tuned body established for the purpose of equalising Australian living standards. The principle on which it was established in 1933 and on which it still operates 46 years later is that ali Australians, no matter which State they live in, deserve the right to receive equivalent government services, thereby providing the environment for a relatively equal standard of living throughout the community. I feel that it is a pity that the Government does not take notice at this point of the principle on which the Grants Commission was established. I refer to the matter of public importance debated this afternoon about the Government's failure to protect the rights of the Aboriginal community at the Yarrabah reserve in Queensland. Once again the principle on which the Grants Commission was established would apply. Under the terms of the Grants Commission Act and by virtue of section 96 of the Constitution, Queensland is a claimant State. All States must be able to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. This is the principle underpinning the Grants Commission. 
In order to achieve that without having to levy taxation and other charges of greater severity than are levied in other States, the revenue of a claimant State has to be supplemented because of, firstly, its lower capacity to raise taxes and other revenue and, secondly, its need to incur higher costs in order to provide comparable government services. In other words, Queensland's tax or revenue base is generally smaller than that of the other States while its expenditure needs are generally larger than those in other States. In reaching its assessment of Queensland's case for special assistance the Grants Commission considers a multitude of factors. It considers not only the severity of government charges and the nature of services offered by the State government but also the type of people to whom those services are directed, the density and age of the population serviced by the State Government, the educational and financial status of those people and the economic base of the State, that is, the States 's predominant industries and businesses. Not least of all the Commission takes into consideration such factors as distance and climate. Generally, Queensland comes out on the debit side of the ledger. 
However, there are areas in which Queensland is singularly blessed. Mineral resources is such an area. It is very instructive to read the Commission's report on Queensland's mineral royalties and the disagreement between the Commission and the Queensland Government over what standard should be applied in determining how much Queensland should be receiving in royalties, that is, its revenue base from mining companies which do not operate in the standard States. The Commission uses profitability as a measure of revenue raising capacity. Understandably, the Queensland Government is acutely sensitive about profitability. After all, it has raised exploitation to the level of an art form. The Queensland Premier has curried favour with benefactors such as  Mr Iwasaki  on the strength of a promise that they can have the maximum of Queensland's resources with the minimum repayment to the Government. The Queensland Premier can take all the credit for mortgaging our heritage and birthright. In paragraph 4.4 1 on page 33 of its 46th report on special assistance for States the Grants Commission said:  . . profitability is not irrelevant to the determination of revenue-raising capacity. There is considerable evidence to suggest that, regardless of the revenue base used to assess the royalty payments for particular minerals, the profitability of a rnining venture is a paramount consideration in determining whether, and to what extent, the venture will be required to make royalty payments . . . profitability provides the best measure of the relative capacities of the States to raise revenues from mining royalties. 
I believe that it is worth looking at some of the rather enlightening statistical information about Queensland which the Grants Commission considered in determining Queensland's case for special assistance. Annual personal income per head in Queensland is $5,1 13. The average income per head for Australia is $5,540. Queensland has the lowest average income per head of any State. It is 7.7 per cent below the Australian average. Apparently, life is not as great in the sunshine State as the Premier of Queensland would have us believe. Queensland has persistently had an unemployment rate a little above the Australian average. In 1978 it averaged 6.6 per cent as against 6.2 per cent for Australia. The unemployment level in Queensland approximates that of South 
Australia. I wonder whether we can expect business and industry leaders in Queensland to attack the Queensland Premier in the same way as they attacked the South Australian Labor Government. Queensland has the lowest enrolment of school age population, that is, in the five years to 18 years group. Seventy-nine per cent of its school age population is enrolled compared with the Australian average of 83.5 per cent. Queensland also has the lowest expenditure on education per head of any State. It is $197 compared with $222 for the whole of Australia. I think there is a definite correlation between those two facts. Queensland spends less on education. Its facilities are therefore inferior and there is less incentive for students to remain at school. Similarly, expenditure on health, hospitals and welfare is the lowest for any State. It is $98 per head compared with $129 for all other States. Those are pretty dismal statistical figures. 
The irresponsibility of the Queensland Government has created a vacuum. Into the breach comes the Grants Commission to the rescue. The Grants Commission is an innovation which other governments round the world have attempted to emulate with varying success. It is a shining example of Australian Government know-how. However, I find two things about the Grants Commission difficult to accept. The first flaw is the geographical unit on which it is based- in other words, the States. The second is the form in which assistance is provided by the national government to the States. Taking up the first point, apart from Tasmania no State or Territory in Australia has any real cohesive economic or geographical entity. For example, economically Queensland is not totally agricultural or primary industrial, nor is the economy of New South Wales totally based on manufacturing. Political unity in the form of State governments is superimposed on overlapping geographical and economic regions. The old colonial lines which separate one State from another are almost totally arbitrary. We have only to look at the situation at Tweed Heads on the border of New South Wales and Queensland to see that half of the Australian citizens in that community can use one-armed bandits while the other half cannot conduct a street march in support of onearmed bandits even if they wanted to do so. I am not endorsing one-armed bandits for Queensland; I am simply trying to point out that the rights that people have depend on which side of that non-existent invisible line they happen to live. 
The Grants Commission establishes the potential for equalisation amongst States. But how do you effect equalisation within the States? Let me take Queensland as an example. How do we know that the people of Cairns will be provided with the same government services as the people in Brisbane? The Grants Commission begins the process of equalisation. It is up to the States then to continue that process. Queensland has traditionally proven itself reluctant to follow a national lead. Until the last couple of months Queensland has steadfastly refused to join the intergovernmental relations committee of which every other State government and the Federal Government were members. When Queensland did join, it was so embarrassed by its complete obstinacy that it did not bother telling anyone. No public announcement has ever been made. 
The Queensland Premier always tries to latch onto the old slogan of States rights. But in any objective sense or analysis at all the levels of government the States have the least claim to any so-called rights. After all, who do they represent? They represent a collection of communities, bound together by an arbitrary line on a map. It is to those communities to which rights belong. However, the Queensland Government's record in acknowledging local government rights and a certain amount of local government autonomy would be, without a doubt, the worst in Australia's history. If the national government even considered intervening in Queensland's affairs to the extent that the Queensland Government has intervened in the affairs of local governments, it would secede. The national government, for very obvious reasons, has the overriding responsibility for those communities. The only way Australia can organise its defence, manage its economy and conduct its trade, is at the national level through the national government. Perhaps we would have a greater chance of establishing a more equitable base for living standards throughout the entire nation if we organised our government infrastructure along national and regional lines. 
I believe that the Australian Assistance Plan introduced by the previous Labor Government was the most far-reaching reform introduced by any government in the field of federal relations and would have gone a long way towards reaching a fuller appreciation of local community needs. Queensland provides an excellent example of how States, far from channelling money from the Federal Government through to local government, actually inhibits the process of equalisation. A great example of that is the Brisbane City Council. It is Australia's largest government authority and one of the largest in the world. It is the only capital city authority assuming control over public transport. Running a large metropolitan bus service like that in Brisbane is a complex management exercise which requires careful and informed handling of sensitive local issues with a responsible eye to equity considerations. Clearly, the local authority is a proper democratic body to handle such matters. The aldermen are directly responsible to their constituents for the standard of their bus service, but the State Government is practising the fine old art of political blackmail. The value of my party's conviction that these sorts of services are best funded from the national coffers and administered by regional or local government bodies is completely confirmed and vindicated by Brisbane's experience. That experience has been that the State, as the channel for the flow of funds to Brisbane's buses, has taken advantage of our outdated feudalistic federal system to frustrate- indeed, to sabotage- public transport in Brisbane. Every metropolitan public transport undertaking in other States and the suburban passenger division of the Queensland Government Railways, derive their funding support from their respective State governments. 
Let us go back several years to when the Queensland Government applied to the Grants Commission for assistance and based its case for support substantially on Brisbane's public transport. As a result of this factor, Queensland's grant was increased by more than $7m in 1974- 75, by more than $6m in 1975-76 and by more than $9m in 1976-77. The Queensland Government flatly refused to acknowledge that one cent of that Grants Commission money should have gone to the Brisbane City Council. That is on the record. I wish to quote the question asked of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and his reply. In my question on notice No. 3409, I asked: 
Is it a fact that, although more than $20m was made available by the Grants Commission during the period 1974 to 1977 on the basis of a claim made for assisting the Brisbane public transport system, not one cent was actually directed to Brisbane public transport? 
In reply, the Minister stated: 
My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services advises that since 1971-72 the Queensland Government has made applications for, and received grants of special financial assistance from the Commonwealth under Section 96 of the Constitution. These grants were paid on the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which has taken the losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council's transport undertaking into account in making its recommendations since 1973-74. 
If the Commission had not taken these losses into account the special grants recommended for payment would have been reduced as follows- 1974-75 $24m to $16.915m: 1975- 76 $35.8m to $29. 178m: and 1976-77 $23.7m to $ 14.048m. 
Special grants payable to a claimant State are in the nature of untied general revenue funds designed to supplement the State's personal income tax sharing entitlements and are not conditional upon the State's undertaking to spend the funds for any particular purpose. Accordingly, the application of these grants to special purposes within the State (including the Brisbane City Council's transport undertaking) is entirely a matter for the Queensland Government to determine. 
Again, the Australian federal structure has been undermined by the petty politics of a State government. Again, this national government has abdicated its responsibility to ensure that money it allocates goes to that area to which it was allocated. How hypocritical it is of the Queensland Government to delay its contribution to the Kampuchean relief appeal on the basis that it wanted to see for sure that the money went to those who needed it. The Queensland Government's deceit and duplicity in denying the flow-on from the Grants Commission to the Brisbane City Council must surely be the most eloquent and convincing argument for the type of national-regional co-operation and the sort of urban and regional planning which the previous Labor Administration fostered. 
As for this Government, its decision to defer the $20m for public transport expenditure last year and another $20m for public transport this year is yet another blow to the Brisbane ratepayers. The money is much needed. Not only will it assist in the maintenance of a public transport service which will become increasingly important as fuel becomes more costly, but also with that money the Brisbane City Council could subsidise pensioner fares to a greater extent and assist the unemployed by giving them free bus trips for job interviews. There is never any guarantee when working with the Queensland Government that it will pass on such moneys as the Commonwealth intends to the rightful recipients. There is no point in retaining the Grants Commission to assess need objectively if the money it recommends is to be spent in other areas. 
I referred before to States as units and made the suggestion that they were artificial units inasmuch as their borders had very little to do with demographic, economic or geographic considerations. They are not units because they are not unified by natural factors. Extensive differences in the economic base do exist within the Statesfor example, between rural and urban areas. Nevertheless, it can be and has been acknowledged that certain States have a broader manufacturing base generally than other States, while some have a broader mining or primary industry base. This generalisation is true of 
Queensland, but I hasten to repeat that it is a generalisation. Some Queensland politicians tend to think that Queensland is one enormous quarry or a vast pasture. Queensland also has people who are employed in manufacturing industries and who are, in effect, subsidised by the national government in the same way as employees in manufacturing industries in other States. 
We must accept that subsidisation of our manufacturing industry cuts both ways. No State is an economic island unto itself. I believe in the principle of equalisation, on which the work of the Grants Commission is based, and I believe Queensland's demographic, economic and geographic disadvantage ought to be taken into account. I do not believe that the rest of Australia owes Queensland a living simply because the Premier of Queensland says so. It is an acute case of hypocrisy for the Premier to campaign on the basis that under his Government Queensland has developed in leaps and bounds and, at the same time, to go cap in hand to the Federal Government and its commissions seeking aid. 
At present, Queensland is the only claimant State. Even Tasmania is spared the embarrassment of claiming for assistance. Queensland has often been called a branch office State because businesses have branches there but rarely establish their headquarters there. Perhaps it is because the Queensland Government so often assumes the attitude of a mendicant- an Oliver wanting more. The driving force of the Queensland Government is not initiative or even enterprise. It is exploitation- exploitation of our mineral and other resources for cheap short-term gains. We have a shortage of entrepreneurial talent, both in government and in business. If the Queensland Premier waves the banner of States' rights, he must be prepared to accept responsibility for those rights. The Queensland Government cannot reconcile wild public statements about its ability to reduce taxes on Queenslanders while simultaneously asking for more money from the Grants Commission. This Government's federalism platform will not stand for it for long. Joh is going to have to eat humble pie very shortly. This Government will soon teach the Queensland Premier and his Treasurer the lessons of fiscal responsibility. 
The last two reports of the Grants Commission have clearly stated the Commission's concern about financing the Premier's personal political ploys. The Federal Government has indicated that it will not always be around to pick up the tabs for the Queensland Premier's expensive vote winning gestures, such as the abolition of gift duty. Sooner or later, in one way or another, Queenslanders will have to pay for the loss of that revenue and those doing the paying will be those who can least afford to pay. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  sections 4.S to 4.11 inclusive of the Grants Commission's Forty-sixth Report 1979 on Special Assistance for States. I spoke to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  earlier in the evening and he agreed to its incorporation. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Probate and Succession Duty 4.5 Queensland abolished succession duty on estates passing between spouses when the deceased died on or after 25 September 197S and on all estates when the deceased died on or after 1 January 1977. At the Brisbane Hearings in December 1978 Queensland stated that, as a result of the abolition of succession duty, it would be unable to provide the usual statistical data on estates for 1977-78 and future years. It also indicated that it was unable to suggest how the Commission might assess Queensland's revenue base and the needs arising from succession duty other than to propose that some use be made of Commonwealth estate duty data, as discussed at the Brisbane Hearings in December 1977. Queensland concluded that there was a continuing need for the Commission to exercise broad judgment in this field, and it requested that a taxable capacity of no greater than 70 per cent of standard be adopted for 1977-78. It submitted that such a capacity would be reasonable given the results of recent years and the expectation that increasing rural concessions in other States would have a relatively greater impact in Queensland. 4.6 Application of the Commission 's usual methods for the determination of probate and succession duty needs for 1977-78 has not been possible due to the absence of suitable statistical data. Use of Commonwealth estate duty statistics as an alternative measure of the tax bases in Queensland and the standard States has been investigated, but is not considered to be practicable because that duty is also being phased out, In addition, the Commonwealth statistics do not take sufficient account of the distribution of assets among beneficiaries and tend to obscure the effects of interstate differences in administrative procedures. Therefore, on the basis of broad judgment, and after examining the capacities determined for earlier years and recent changes to the probate and succession duty legislation in the standard States, the Commission has assessed Queensland's taxable capacity for 1977-78 at 70 per cent of standard, which represents needs of$13,63S,000 4.7 The Commission is concerned about the longer term implications of the method adopted for 1977-78 to deal with the problems posed by the different State policies in relation to probate and succession duty. Accordingly, it invites further submissions on this matter from the interested parties. 
Gift Duty 4.8 Queensland abolished gift duty on gifts made between spouses as from 28 November 1975 and on all other gifts as from 1 January 1977. For 1976-77, Queensland submitted that details of gift duty assessments actually issued in Queensland during that year were not a reliable guide to its relative revenue base. The Commission accepted that submission and, on the basis of broad judgment, assessed Queensland's capacity at 70 per cent of standard for 1976-77. In making that assessment the Commission was influenced by: the results of its usual methodology, adjusted for the effects of the more generous exemptions in Queensland and the abolition of gift duty; the relationship between gift duty and probate and succession duty; and the implied capacities calculated for previous years. At the Brisbane Hearings in December 1978, Queensland confirmed that, as a result of the abolition of gift duty, it would not be able to provide statistical data on gifts made in Queensland for 1977-78 and future years. For 1977-78 the Commission has, on the basis of broad judgment, assessed Queensland's capacity at 70 per cent of standard the same as that adopted for probate and succession duty. However, the Commission is concerned about the problems associated with interstate comparisons in this field and it invites further comments from the interested parties on the methodology to be adopted for future years. 
Stamp Duty on General Insurance 4.9 For the 1 976-77 year of review, Queensland 's needs in this field were assessed by reference to a capacity determined by the Commission as a weighted average of the capacities to raise revenue from the three groups of general insurance: workers' compensation; motor vehicle comprehensive and third party; and other insurance, for workers' compensation insurance, Queensland's capacity to raise revenue was determined by reference to the capacity assessed for pay-roll taxation. A capacity of 100 per cent was adopted for the motor vehicle comprehensive and third party insurance component. For the other insurance field, the capacity was determined by reference to the per capita premiums paid in each State after making an allowance for the higher storm and tempest component in Queensland relative to New South Wales. The capacities so determined were weighted by reference to the relationship between premiums paid for that field of insurance and total premiums paid in Victoria. 4.10 In its Forty-fifth Report 1978 (paragraph 4.14), the Commission expressed its concern that this approach might not result in a proper assessment of Queensland's needs in this field of taxation, and it invited further consideration of the matter by the interested parties. At the Brisbane Hearings in December 1978, the Queensland Treasury submitted that compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance should be considered separately and not specifically as part of the general insurance category. The separation was suggested because only a nominal stamp duty is charged on compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance in New South Wales and Queensland and complete exemption exists in Victoria. Queensland concluded that there was no real relationship between stamp duty and premiums or cover provided in either the standard States or Queensland for this type of insurance. It submitted that a separate assessment of needs, based on a comparison of the number of motor vehicles on register in each State, should be made for compulsory third party insurance. The Commission has accepted this submission and Queensland's needs arising from stamp duty on compulsory third party insurance for 1977-78 have been included in the category 'Motor vehicle third party insurance taxation'. 
1 1 In the absence of data necessary to pursue alternative methods of comparison, the Commission has assessed Queensland's needs for 1977-78 arising from stamp duty on general insurance, excluding compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance, by similar methods to those adopted for 1976-77. For 1977-78, Queensland's capacity to raise revenue in this field has been determined as 83 per cent of standard, which gives positive needs of $4,638,000. However, the Commission is still concerned about the suitability of the approach adopted and it invites further consideration of this matter by the interested parties. 
I thank the House and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  I want to make it very plain that I do not object to Queensland's requests for assistance, but I do object to the Queensland Premier's hypocrisy in proclaiming Queensland 's exceptional development under his Government. The clear implication in the section of the Commission's report which I have incorporated is that the Federal Government will not be coming to the rescue of the Queensland Government unless, of course, it believes that direct political advantage will be gained by it- that is, by the Federal Government. 
There is one area of the Grants Commission report which I think shows that perhaps Queensland has been dealt with unfairly. It relates to the effects of diseconomies of scale. Apparently Queensland was invited to make submissions on the use of the factor assessment method, the details of which I shall not bother to go into at the moment. Queensland raised the broad principle of diseconomies of scale. This is the view that because of the existence of indivisible, fixed costs and other factors, smaller organisations incur higher costs per unit than larger organisations offering similar services. This is true in Queensland's case. Certain standards of health facilities, for example, are required in given population centres, no matter what their size. This was even acknowledged by the Commonwealth Treasury in the Commission's Canberra hearings. But the Treasury added: 
While it is one thing to develop the concept of a scale factor in a theoretical sense, we suggest that it is a particularly difficult task to set about applying a numerical measure to it. 
I believe that there exists in the Queensland submission a fundamental truth that should not be denied by the Commission. While the proposals made by the Queensland Government for the determination or measuring of the disadvantages suffered by Queensland because of its diseconomies of scale may have been flawed in certain respects, I hope that a workable formula might be arrived at. Certainly, a reading of the report indicates that the Queensland Government deserves points for trying. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. We accept the bipartisan nature of the Grants Commission 's calculations and we believe that this grant ought to be made in strict accordance with its recommendations, as has been the procedure since the Commission's foundation. For my part, I believe that there is a definite need to review the form in which the grant is made. Section 96 of the Constitution states that: 
. The Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. 
A grant in the form of a specific purpose payment could be made to a claimant State in order to ensure that the grant goes to the area of need defined by the Grants Commission. Certainly, the experience of Queensland as a claimant State indicates that all the good work of the Grants Commission can be undone too easily by a State government which is not prepared to play by the rules. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What sum was allocated in the (a) 1978-79 and (b) 1 979-80 budgets for Public Service wage rises. 
Should the allocation for 1979-80 be exhausted before the end of the financial year what options has the Government open to it. 
Do these options include further staff reductions, further reductions in the provision of services to the public, further delays to scheduled projects, or a decision confirmed by a vote in either the House of Representatives or the Senate to disallow any increases granted to public servants by the Public Service Arbitrator. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
In what ways and for what reason will the tabulation and publication of road traffic accident statistics by the Office of the Commonwealth Statistician be altered in respect of previous accident statistics. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Further to the answer he gave to my question No. 3333 concerning an investigation of safety requirements and standards in self-service petrol stations in all States and Territories (  Hansard,  22 May 1979, page 2226), what action has been taken as a result of his raising the matter of self-service station safety regulations and standards at a meeting of the Consumer Affairs Ministers in April 1979. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Has any negotiation with any foreign fishing interest taken place regarding fishing or access to the Australian Fishing Zone within the area of the North West Shelf; if so, with which foreign fishing interests have negotiations taken place. 
Which Australian authorities and other bodies have been informed of these negotiations. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
Is it a fact that Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital has only one laboratory technician; if so, is a replacement provided when that technician is on leave. 
Does Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital treat 1 8.4 per cent of all patients in repatriation hospitals. 
What is the percentage of the total allocation of funds to Repatriation General Hospitals for specialised equipment received during the 5 years to 30 June 1978 by Greenslopes Hospital. 
When was construction undertaken of a building to replace temporary war-time patient accommodation. 
) Has there been a delay; if so, why. 
Will additional staff be provided for the ward block under construction at Greenslopes Hospital. 
Will the total number of beds available in Queensland repatriation hospitals be reduced. 
Has the repatriation service of the Greenslopes Hospital been downgraded in favour of general patients. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
Did Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital (Vic.) treat 10,747 inpatients compared with 10,359 inpatients treated at Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital in Brisbane during 1977-78. 
Does Heidelberg Hospital have a staff of 1,483 and Greenslopes Hospital a staff of approximately 1,000. 
Does Heidelberg Hospital have approximately 75 per cent more nurses than Greenslopes Hospital. 
Does Heidelberg Hospital insist that safe nursing practice requires a rninimum of 3.65 hours of nursing time per patient per day. 
What is the minimum nursing time per patient per day at Greenslopes Hospital. 
If the answer to pan (5) shows the figure is less than the minimum established at Heidelberg Hospital, does that then place at risk the lives and general safety of patients at Greenslopes Hospital. 
Does Heidelberg Hospital have approximately 100 junior medical staff while Greenslopes Hospital has approximately 50. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Will he discuss with the Minister for Transport the need to increase funds for aerial surveillance in order to adequately police the Australian Fishing Zone to detect unlicensed foreign fishing vessels and vessels contravening Australia's laws and regulations. 
Will he also discuss with the Minister for Transport the question of increasing Government charter of local boats in order to conduct regular surveillance and to alert authorities about vessels breaching Australia 's fishing laws. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) How many patients and residents at nursing homes in Queensland (a) transferred to other nursing homes and (b) left nursing homes for other types of accommodation (excluding hospitalisation) in the period 1 January to I September 1979. 
In the case of part ( 1 ) (a) how many of these transfers were to nursing homes charging less than the fees at the previous nursing homes. 
3 ) Is it a fact that the high number of transfers and departures from nursing homes in this period was due to fees at most nursing homes increasing rapidly, without a commensurate increase by the Government in its contribution to the standard fee for nursing homes in Queensland. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to advice given to the Minister that a former agent of the Federal Narcotics Bureau had seen the files which referred to several Queensland politicians as being associated with the operations of drug syndicates. I also refer to the statement made today by a member of the Queensland Parliament that he knows the names of several Queensland politicians who are alleged to have been associated with drug syndicates. Is it a fact that the Queensland Premier has asked for evidence to be presented? Is it not a fact that such evidence could be within the files of the former Narcotics Bureau? Accordingly, will the Minister peruse the file and make a full statement on the matter in the House tomorrow? 
-I second the amendment and reserve my right to speak at a later hour this day. 
I have a great deal of respect for the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  Whilst I know that he was criticising the States generally for their contribution to education, I noticed that his criticisms were not concerned with Queensland, although I feel sure that he was very concerned with Queensland and the Queensland Government. 
-Okay. I still feel that, whilst the honourable member did not mention Queensland, he still included Queensland in his criticism. The cognate debate on these two machinery Bills, the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Bill, brings together the two major concerns about education in this country. I refer to the stagnation in tertiary education and the open threat to the continued functioning of the Schools Commission. I shall direct my comments tonight to the subject that has concerned both my constituents and me for the last two years; that is, the debasing of the Schools Commission. My electorate includes some of the most prestigious private schools in the country as well as some of the most deprived. Surely the most balanced approach one could adopt in resolving the problem of assistance to schools, which in my electorate are so widely diverse, is to assess funding requirements on the basis of need. What approach could be more equitable and more reasonable? However, the Australian Teachers Federation noted in its report on the 1 979-80 Budget: 
The days when a government was committed to funding education according to the needs of education as assessed by the education commissions have clearly passed. 
Because of the value of the comments of the Teachers Federation, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  those few pages comprising the report. 
Leave granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

I thank the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  I thank the House. The need exists for State governments and schools to maintain their efforts in relation to fundings, and that level of public funding implies accountability and access, and of course includes the needs principle itself. 
Let me summarise this Government's abysmal record in relation to the Schools Commission. Firstly, it has restricted spending on schools generally which, rightly or wrongly, is in line with announced Government policy. Secondly, it has changed the direction of spending. It is painfully clear to any novice that the Government, by stealth, has embarked on a deliberate course away from the needs policy and maintenance of effort, to a policy of gradual reintroduction of per capita grants and an attitude of laissez faire with regard to State education funding. The guidelines of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  issued to the Commission confirm the relentless drift in policy. In connection with the drift away from the policy of maintenance of aid by State governments, I raise the example of Queensland. The Queensland Minister for Education recently announced cuts in the areas of teachers' aides, relieving teachers, janitors, groundsmen and school cleaning and administrative staff. This is just one example of how the States will be responding to cuts in Federal Government allocations for education. One can lead a horse to water but one cannot make it drink. Similarly, this Government can abdicate its responsibilities for education, but there is no guarantee that the States will take up the slack. As a further example, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  table 5.3 of the Queensland Teachers Union submission on funding to the Queensland State Government. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911142_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister. I thank the House. That table indicates that, in 1978, Queensland education expenditure on capital works for each student was $87 compared to $ 127 in New South Wales, $ 1 50 in Victoria, $126 in South Australia, $128 in Western Australia, and $210 in Tasmania. It is a very poor record. I hope that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  would not endorse it. I now wish to deal with the Federal Government's motivation for adopting such a negative attitude to education funding. Firstly, for those so innocent, naive or brainwashed as my friend, the beekeeper is- I refer to the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)-  as to doubt that there have been cuts in education, let us examine table B3 of the Schools Commission Report for this year. I seek leave to incorporate that table in  Hansard.  It is only a small table. Our time is limited. That is why I have sought leave to have this and earlier tables incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911142_51_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Let us examine the largest allocation in the table, general recurrent expenditure, for both government and non-government schools. For government schools the figure fell from $202m in 1976 to $192m this year. We must remember that in those three to four years inflation has risen more than 50 per cent. The same allocation for non-government schools rose from $174m in 1976 to $228m this year. I should point out that the latter figure does not tell the whole story because the Government has maintained a double standard within non-government funding between the wealthy schools and poorer schools. If there are still any doubting Thomases who question the Government's withdrawal from assistance to government schools, they should take note of the growth rates- if they can be called that- in Commonwealth Government expenditure on government schools. For that purpose, I seek leave to have table B2 of the Schools Commission Report 1979-80 incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197911142_51_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197911142_52_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Minister. I thank the House. I do not have time to go through the whole procedure. I think we all know why that is - 
-There is the beekeeper again. He does not have any time to do research, but he likes to look after his bees. Not one of the 13 categories of statistics show any indication of an increase in real terms; in fact, all indicate a fall in real terms of more than 50 per cent. 
Now, if some coalition faithfuls- we have the beekeeper again- still need to be persuaded that the Government has indeed aborted general education in Australia, let me go further than 1976 to make a comparison between this Government and the record of the Labor Government on education- a record on which we shall be proud to campaign in the next election. In 1971-72, expenditure for education was $327m. In 1972-73, expenditure was $390m. In 1973- 74, expenditure doubled to $666m. In 1974- 75, the figure was $l,089m. In 1975-76, it was $ 1,094m. In 1970-71 dollar terms, education expenditure for 1973-74 was an increase of 92.8 per cent. In 1974-75, the increase was 90.8 per cent. In 1975-76 the increase was 13.5 per cent. In constant 1970-71 dollar terms, the growth in Commonwealth Government outlays for education during the present Government's two terms in office has been 2.8 per cent in 1976-77, a negative 0.4 per cent in 1977-78, a negative 2.1 per cent in 1 978-79 and a negative 6.3 per cent in 1979-80. In other words, if the value of today's currency was the same as in 1970-7 1, this year's allocation would be $305.4m compared with the figure in 1970-71 of $327m. These figures include total expenditure on education, that is, figures on expenditure for tertiary education which, by virtue of decisions taken by the Labor Government during its terms, has taken a greater percentage of the Government's allocation. Whilst I am sure that there are a few hardheaded Government apologists who will stand by this regime through thick and thin- and there has been plenty of thin so far as general education is concerned- I trust that the figures to which I have referred have done something to stir their minds and their consciences, even if they do not stir the bees. 
What are the other results from this retreat from education? Cuts in education have meant a retrenchment of staff, less money for research and therefore the deterioration of research which has enormous long term implications for Australia. There has been the abandonment of courses and restricted opportunities for entering certain courses. There has been a reduction in student services and increases in staff/student ratios with appalling consequences for the quality of education. There have been delays in the replacement and upgrading of buildings and other physical facilities. Last, but by no means least in importance, cuts in education have resulted in educational discrimination against disadvantaged and minority groups. Just as the Government reintroduced the element of politics into pensions, so too it has made education funding a political football. It has reintroduced the old State aid debate and has deliberately encouraged antagonism between State schools on the one hand and the wealthier private schools on the other. 
Last year the Government upset the orderly program developed by the Schools Commission by introducing its own guidelines, not simply weighted in favour of all private schools but favouring the wealthier of those non-State schools. For example, level one primary schools received $17 a head whilst the poorer level six schools received only $5 a head. Recurrent funding for Government schools was unchanged even though cost increases were acknowledged by the Government. Private schools, however, received $9.1m specifically for escalation of costs in those schools. Of the rest of the $ 14m going to the private schools, $2. 5m went to the top 20 per cent, levels one, two and three, whilst another $2. 5m was distributed to the level which contained 80 per cent of non-government pupils. So not only is there a non-government tilt in the allocations of funds for schools assistance, but even within that sector of education there is open discrimination in favour of the wealthier private schools. That is what we call a double standard. 
I suppose that in one way one could make a case for the argument that the Government has not really revived the State aid argument because in fact the Government is not discriminating so much on the basis of private schools in preference to government schools as it is on the basis of wealthy schools over poorer schools. In last year's payments, level one schools were receiving $28 a head compared with $6 a head for parochial schools, and $17 a head to level one primary schools compared with $5 a head to level six primaries. 
If the Government were sincere about the difficulties faced by the Catholic schools- and it appears from the recent reports about the deficit in the Vatican that things are indeed grave and could be getting worse for Catholic schools- the Government could at least have abandoned its policy of bringing all schools up to 20 per cent of average costs and given what money there is to the parochial schools; but this is not the case. What has influenced Government policy making in the area of assistance to schools is nostalgia rather than need. When it comes to the issue of education we have an old boy network rather than men in a government who put memories of the social and economic elitism of their own private school educations ahead of the needs of all schools in this country. In the ranks of this Ministry the school tie says as much about a man as his ministerial record. What other reasons could possibly exist for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  retaining his old head prefect, the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)?  Greater respect hath no man than a fag has for his head prefect. How many of the old boys do we have in this Ministry? Of course, the most notable is the Prime Minister himself. The Melbourne Church of England Grammar School has the dubious honour of having moulded the Prime Minister in his formative years. 
-As the honourable member for Parramatta asks, what of his colleagues? It is an impressive list and I hope once again that with the approval of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  I can table the list of the Ministers and the schools they represented. 
Leave not granted. 
It was granted by the other Minister. It is all in  Who's Who. 
-No. He is not proud of his record. Apparently he did not go to a good school. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Is he able to say what was the price of a litre of standard petrol in (a) The United States of America, (b) Japan, (c) West Germany, (d) France, (e) Great Britain, (f) Italy, (g) Australia as at 2 1 August 1979. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the World Wildlife Fund is included in the list of charities to which donations are tax deductible, while donations to World Vision, Unicef, Save the Children, Austcare, Foster Parents Plans of Australia and other charities which give foreign aid have no similar tax relief. 
As it is the Year of the Child, will he undertake to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act to include those charities in the list of associations attracting tax deductions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
1 ) How long will modifications to Australia's new patrol boats take. 
Will there be any reduction in Australia's capacity to properly police its 200 mile fishing zone because the boats will require substantial modifications. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the complaints of 3 Papua New Guinea seamen confined to the barge  Ramu  moored off Flying Fish Point in the Johnstone River, North Queensland; if so, what is the nature ofthe complaints. 
Who owns the barge and where is it registered. 
Have similar problems occurred previously in respect of this barge. 
How long has the barge been moored at Flying Fish Point. 
Does the proclamation of the 200 mile Australian Fishing Zone extend any protection whatsoever to foreign seamen on vessels in Australian waters. 
Will he consider taking legislative action to provide protection to foreign seamen who find themselves in circumstances similar to those of the crew of the  Ramu. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the interest shown by millionaire Arab oil-men in purchasing islands along the Queensland Barrier Reef. 
If so, will he inquire into this matter and report to the Parliament on the implications for the tourist industry of large scale investment by Middle East oil interests in this area. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
1 ) When will his Depanment 's review of standard fees at nursing homes in Queensland be completed. 
When will he decide on the level of the Federal Government's contribution toward the standard nursing home fee in Queensland. 
Further to his answer to part (3) (b) of my question No. 3573  (Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1979) who commissioned the survey and for what reason. 
Who carried out the survey. 
In view of the dramatic drop and resultant hardship faced by residents at nursing homes in meeting the difference between the new rates and the standard fees, why was the Government's contribution to the nursing home standard fee not adjusted in April 1979 instead of October 1979. 
When will residents at Queensland nursing homes receive the benefit of the revision of the standard fee. 
Will he make the adjustment retrospective at least to the date the review was completed and submitted to him. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
At a meeting on 18 July 1979 did the Queensland Fisheries Department and various Queensland fisheries organisations disagree with the Commonwealth Government over the Government's negotiation of a fishing agreement with the Japanese Government relating to the Government's proposals to allow Japanese longline fishermen to catch martin close to the Great Barrier Reef, off Cairns, Queensland. 
Did he state in his answer to a question on 9 October 1979  (Hansard,  pages 1723-4) that the only new aspects which have occurred have occurred in recent days, and they are that the light game sporting organisation became concerned about the possibility of increased fishing in light game areas and the protection of the black martin breeding areas. 
If so, does the term 'recent days' refer to the period since he temporarily took over the portfolio of Minister for Primary Industry. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
Did he undertake to reconsider the fishing agreement with Japan concluded during October 1979 within the 2 weeks prior to signing the Agreement. 
If so, with whom did he consult during the 2 week period. 
Were amendments made to 'the agreement within those 2 weeks; if so, what are the amendments; if not, why not. 
Is he prepared to go to Queensland to explain to interested groups the terms ofthe agreement. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
Did he state in his Alfred Deakin memorial lecture at Melbourne University that in a democracy people could not be forced to work and that in the period before the 1930 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration An which prohibited strikes absolutely, there were more strikes than at almost any other period in Australia's history; if so, does he still stand by this statement. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Is it a fact that all insurance firms offering travel insurance regard medically certified sickness or death as the only allowable circumstances in which the cost of a cancelled advance purchase ticket can be recovered; if so, has this been the case for the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Does Qantas recommend any specific insurance company to its passengers; if so, for what reasons and what are the terms of the agreement between Qantas and that insurance company. 
2 ) Is it a fact that insuring with that company must be carried out either on the day that the Qantas ticket is purchased or as near as possible to the day, while other travel insurance companies offer insurance at virtually any time in the period between purchase of the ticket and departure. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state in an answer to a question without notice in the House on 9 October 1979  (Hansard,  pages 1723-4) that there was a complete lack of scientific evidence to back decisions to allow the Japanese to fish off the Great Barrier Reef. 
Has research into black marlin and other fish in Australasian waters been completed by (a) the Institute of Marine Science, Univeristy of Miami, (b) the United States of America Department of Commerce National Marine Fisheries Service in California, (c)  Mr J.  W. Anderson of the International Game Fishing Association in a report on the subject and (d) the Cairns Game Fishing Club in its Tagging Report, 1977. 
Were these studies taken into account in negotiations with the Japanese in respect of an Australia-Japan fishing agreement. 
Is it a fact that a study of this subject is currently being undertaken and sponsored by his Department and due to be completed in about 2 months time. 
If so, why was the signing of the agreement not delayed until after the findings of that study were available. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Did the report of the working group established by the Australian Fisheries Council on the 200 mile Australian Fishing Zone state that licensing foreign fishing operations may not be acceptable since it does not generate any secondary benefits either by way of land based activities associated with the victualling or servicing of the vessel in Australia and the handling, trans-shipment or processing of the catch in Australia; if so, on what advice did the Government rely in choosing licensing as the form of participation by foreign fishing interests in the Zone. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What stage have negotiations reached between the Australian Government and the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company concerning access to the Australian Fishing Zone. 
Have the Queensland Government and its authorities and the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority been kept informed of the negotiations with this company. 
Did his predecessor give an undertaking in a letter to me dated 19 June 1979 that proposals submitted by Kailis Kaohsiung and other Taiwanese fishing companies had been considered at Commonwealth, State and industry levels. 
In order to avoid the situation in which the Government has found itself over the Japanese Fishing Agreement, will he make available to the Parliament the terms of the agreement which have already been agreed upon by the Taiwanese fishing company. 
It troubles me today to have to talk against the Public Works Committee as I am a member of it. I support many of the conclusions that the Public Works Committee reached. I thought that the 
Department of Transport was lackening in giving the Committee the full evidence that it required. It had to giVe the Committee two submissions. I must congratulate the Department of Housing and Construction on its magnificent effort. Today the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  justified the expenditure of public moneys to suit his own political needs. I remind the honourable member for Lilley of what he said today, and I will remind the constituents of his electorate and all the people in Brisbane. I will remind those people that the honourable member has agreed with everything that the Minister has said. The Minister has approved the lifting of the curfew when the new international airport is built. As proposed by the Department of Transport, runway 02/20 will shift the noise problem from the electorates of Lilley and Brisbane into my electorate of Griffith. 
It is correct. On the evidence of the Department of Transport the constituents of my electorate, mainly those in the areas of Cannon Hill and Morningside, will be within the 25-NEF- Noise Exposure Forecast. If the Department of Transport had given greater consideration to this matter it would have moved runway 02/20 probably a mile further north-east so that the constituents in my electorate would not have come within the 25-NEF, thereby alleviating the problem that they will be inundated with from noise pollution, air pollution and not least of all the hazards of fully laden aircraft taking off in a south-easterly direction at certain times of the year over a heavily populated area of my electorate. 
The Committee did recognise in its conclusions the noise problem in the Brisbane residential area but did not think it was of such a magnitude as to justify the expenditure of the money at this time. I cannot agree with that. I feel that we should spend the money. I want to make it clear that the city of Brisbane and the State of Queensland should have a new international airport. When the Department of Housing and Construction and the Department of Transport were designing the airport they should have thought a little harder instead of playing politics and taking noise pollution out of one electorate and placing it in my electorate. This is what concerns me more than Brisbane and Queensland getting a new international airport. 
As other members of the Public Works Committee have already explained in this place, when phase 1 of the project is completed there will be taxi-ing problems. The Jumbo jets will not be able to taxi the full 6.5 kilometres. They will have problems with tyres blowing out because of heat. The light aircraft that will have to taxi that distance will have cylinder head problems and will have to shut down before they can take off. Jumbo jets will be taking off with their tyres blown out. That is okay; they can take off with tyres blown out, but they cannot land. These are the sorts of hazards that this Minister has agreed to today, and so has the honourable member for Lilley. They are agreeing today that the airport at Brisbane will have a runway which will allow aircraft to taxi that distance. It is totally irresponsible of the Minister. I suggest that when he sent his officers from the Department of Transport to give evidence in Brisbane to the Committee he deliberately told them not to give the Committee the full details. The Department of Housing and Construction did give full evidence, but the evidence of the Department of Transport was lacking. It is the Minister who is playing politics. He knew that the evidence that the Department of Transport would give to the Committee would make it reach the conclusion that it did and then he could come into the House and claim to be a great man by saying: 'We are not going to listen to the Committee. We are going to let the project go ahead '. It is absolutely disgraceful of the Minister and I deplore his actions today. He is saying that the people of Brisbane are going to be inundated with noise pollution, air pollution, safety hazards and they will be without a curfew. The Minister will remember and rue the day he has made this decision. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
When does he propose to answer my question No. 3332. 
Is it a fact that the introduction of broadcast teletext has been delayed still further since I placed question No. 3332 on notice on 1 March 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Is it a fact that spastics, quadriplegics and other chronic invalids cared for at home by relatives or friends receive the same invalid pension as psychologically or less physically invalid pensioners who care for themselves or who are cared for in public or government institutions. 
Is it also a fact that a means test of $1 a week for supplementary assistance for a chronic invalid pensioner is inadequate. 
How long has the means test for supplementary assistance on the invalid pension been at $ 1 per week. 
Will the Minister consider raising the supplementary assistance means test for invalid pensioners for chronic invalids. 
Will the Minister consider introducing another grade of invalid pension to include chronic invalids, such as spastics and quadriplegics, cared for by relatives or friends at home. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did the former Minister say in his ministerial statement of 25 September 1979 (  Hansard,  pages 1461-4), that throughout the period of preparation for the Australian Fishing Zone the Commonwealth has maintained continuous consultations with the States and has kept them informed of the progress throughout the negotiations. 
If so, has the Queensland Government specifically been kept informed of negotiations between the Commonwealth and Japanese Governments. 
3 ) Has the Queensland Government, prior to the week of 8 October 1979, expressed any reservations about or opposition to the terms of Japan 's access to the zone. 
How many tonnes of black marlin did the Japanese fish in or around Queensland waters in (a) 1970-71 and (b) 1976-77. 
What effects will heavy long line fishing by the Japanese have on the black marlin population in North Queensland waters. 
What associations and authorities have contacted his office to register opposition to the agreement. 
What is the (a) specific composition of the overseas interests, referred to by the firmer Minister in his ministerial statement of 25 September 1979, which have expressed interest in carrying out feasibility fishing projects and (b) specific nature of each of the proposed projects. 
What are commercial joint ventures referred to by the former Minister in his ministerial statement. 
When will these commercial joint ventures be established. 
will the category of foreign fishing boats increase or decrease in the coming years. 
1 1 ) In what ways is it anticipated the Australian fishing industry will increase its share of the total allowable catch, as stated by the former Minister. 
Have any provisions been established in the foreign fishing agreements so far concluded for  the  processing in Australia of a portion of the foreign catch. 
Does the Japanese agreement specify the number of boats to be licensed. 
Have the negotiations with foreign fishing interests included any discussion on penalties for offences against Australian fishing laws. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What technical assistance is given by the Japanese to the Australian fishing industry. 
What assurances on access to the Japanese market for Australian fish and fish products have been given by the Japanese as referred to in the former Minister's ministerial statement to the House on 25 September 1979  (Hansard,  pages 1461-4). 
Because of public disquiet and opposition by the Queensland Government and because of Commonwealth Government claims that the negotiations are too far advanced to be broken at this stage, will he undertake now not to re-issue the licenses or to re-admit the Japanese to the Australian Fishing Zone in 1980 when the terms of access are again reviewed. 
Did the former Minister in his ministerial statement say that the results of the talks with Taiwanese fishing interests and their Australian agents are now under consideration by the Commonwealth and the relevant States with a view to finalising arrangements to enable licences to be issued prior to the commencement of the Zone; if so, which States have taken part in discussions with the Commonwealth. 
What aspects of Taiwanese fishing were discussed by the Commonwealth with the Taiwanese. 
In the event that illegal activities by certain Taiwanese clam boats on the Barrier Reef does not cease will the agreement with the Taiwanese be voided. 
What are the opinions of the relevant State Governments concerning Taiwanese fishing within the Zone. 
Has a payment of access fee from Taiwanese fishing interests been discussed; if so, has a precise fee been determined. 
How did the Government arrive at the $1.4m access fee with the Japanese Government. 
10) Have State Governments been kept informed of the negotiations with the Korean Government and will he consider allowing State Governments to take pan in these negotiations if they are not already doing so. 
1 1 ) As the former Minister said in his ministerial statement that no timetable has yet been set for negotiations with other countries, will he say with which other countries the Government expects to conduct negotiations on access to the Zone. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Since the introduction of Qantas advance purchase overseas air fares, how many tickets bought at off-peak period rates have been cancelled for each of the routes for which advanced purchase tickets may be purchased. 
How many cancelled seats have since been sold to other travellers on each of the routes. 
Will he recommend to Qantas that a waiting list be introduced for those persons who wish to purchase a cancelled ticket at off-peak rates. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he state in a media release of 1 7 August 1 979 that he would be reporting to the Government in the near future on the outcome of his examination of the petroleum marketing industry. 
) When will the Parliament be informed of his findings. 
Has the Government's apparent determination of 1978 to stop oil companies retailing petrol directly to the public and also to prevent selective discounting, weakened in the 1 1 months since his statement in October 1978. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1) Is it a fact that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority is presently conducting a catch-effort study on the black marlin fisheries off the Australian coast. 
Is the Authority included in the working committee established by him to monitor and collate information on the black marlin in the 12 months period of the Australia/Japan Fishing Agreement; if not, why not. 
Does the black marlin fishery come within the region of the Great Barrier Reef. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) What will be the cost of his official portrait. 
Has he often called for economic restraint; if so, as a gesture to that sentiment, will he consider the offer, made by the Opposition in June 1979, of an official portrait commissioned by the Opposition and offered free of charge. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1 979: 
How many persons (a) applied for and (b) received special consideration by his Depanment in respect of interstate or overseas air travel (i) in the national interest, or for (ii) sporting, (iii) professional, (iv) business or (v) humanitarian purposes in each of the last 5 years. 
Has the introduction of lower seasonal air fares and the resultant maximum use of seating capacity caused a reduction in the number of seats available to the Government for allocation to persons applying to him for concessional rates or other special consideration for ( a ) sporting, ( b ) professional, (c) business or (d ) humanitarian reasons. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What is his Department's estimate of the number of persons who have left the work force (those who are neither working nor registered for unemployment benefits) as at 1 September 1979. 
What has been the increase in the number of (a) registered unemployed, (b) employed and (c) unregistered unemployed, since June 1976. 
What is the estimated increase in the work force in 1979-80. 
What is the budget estimate for registered unemployed during 1979-80. 
Can it be concluded that the difference between the answers to parts (3) and (4) will reveal the number of persons who will leave the work force during 1 979-80. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
What assistance is made available to Vietnamese immigrants. 
Has he recevied special representations from the United States or Thai Governments or any other source regarding immigration of those persons known as the hill people from Laos, recruited by the US CIA during the Indochina conflict. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 1 8 September 1979: 
What are the cost and conservation benefits of 92 octane fuel, presently marketed by Caltex in New South Wales only. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Following the Minister's reply to my question No. 3569  (Hansard,  7 June 1979, page 3177), what was concluded in the reports presented to the Australian Education Council meeting in June 1979 by the working parties established by the Council in December 1978 (a) to investigate the co-ordination of planning and administration between the Tertiary Education Commission or the establishment of more appropriate consultative arrangements and (b) to compile information on the transition from school to work. 
Is it a fact that the Government will not introduce shared funding for tertiary education as a topic for discussion at future meetings of the Australian Education Council. 
Is it also a fact that the Government will not support similar moves by any State representative on the Council. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
As the  Journal of Industry and Commerce  (June 1979) published by the Department of Industry and Commerce indicates that adjustments between the demand and supply of labour will be uncertain, piecemeal and prolonged and that unemployment and vacancies may co-exist because of shortages of certain skills or limited geographical mobility, upon what advice has the Government acted in reducing funds for job training programs by 1 7 per cent for 1 979-80. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Further to his reply to question No. 3572 concerning a meeting of the Public Service Board, the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, the Department of Foreign Affairs and certain unions to discuss staffing of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau  (Hansard,  24 May 1979, pages 2,413-4), will he now (a) request the Public Service Board to release to the unions represented at the relevant meetings copies of the minutes of those meetings where undertakings were alleged to have been made by the Board to supply the unions with reports of the Joint Review Committee into Staffing of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau and (b) release to public service unions copies of the joint review committee's report. 
) Did the Public Service Board undertake to provide the information set out in his reply to question No. 3572 at a meeting of the parties referred to in part (I) on 30 November 1978, while at the meeting on 18 October 1978 a more explicit commitment to provide the full report was made. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the cost of providing the confravision service to businesses in Sydney and Melbourne. 
When is it anticipated to extend the service to Brisbane. 
3 ) What are the rates for use of the service. 
4 ) What percentage per year of the purchase price, installation and operating costs of the service is re-couped in those rates. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
How many advertisements has the Public Service Board placed in (a) newspapers and (b) other media concerning industrial disputes in which it has been involved in the last 4 years. 
What was the cost of the advertisements in (a) newspapers and ( b ) other media. 
Upon what resources did the Public Service Board draw to finance this advertising campaign. 
Was an advertising agency employed for the purpose of preparing the advertisements. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
In respect of penalties for foreign offenders of Australian fishing laws, will the Attorney-General consider holding talks with the signatories of foreign fishing agreements with the Commonwealth to discuss the possibility of enabling foreigners in breach of Australian fishing laws to serve their sentences in the penal institutions of their home country. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1 979: 
What changes have occurred in the administration staffing arrangements, resources and services at Rosemount Repatriation Hospital, Windsor, Queensland since 1 July 1978. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
How many advance purchase seats for flights to (a) London, (b) Athens, (c) Hong Kong and (d) San Francisco for the 1980 off peak period were unfilled as at (a) I August 1979, (b) 10 August 1979 and (c) 27 August 1979. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1979: 
Will he reconsider appeals for permanent residency made by certain persons who came to this country under the terms of sporting visas during 1 975. 
Is it a fact that during a period of 4 years these and other sportsmen and women develop personal and financial ties which make departure at the end of that period most difficult; if so, will he review the terms upon which sporting visas are issued. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1 979: 
Will foreign fishing vessels licensed to fish in the Australian Fishing Zone (a) make application for licences on an approved form prior to entry into the 200 mile Australian Fishing Zone, ( b ) pay appropriate licence fees prior to entry , (c) have to report locations each week, (d) provide accommodation for Government observers, (e) supply to authorities statistics on their catch rate and the area of fishing prior to departure and (0 have to report prior to arrival and departure. 
Will licensed foreign fishing vessels be allowed access to Australian ports; if so, at what rate would port access fees apply. 
Will trans-shipment of the catch of foreign vessels be made compulsory. 
What are the benefits of compulsory trans-shipment. 
